b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
p is a process boundary =def .
b is a continuant fiat boundary = def .
b is a process_profile =def .
b is a relational quality = def .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a genome is a material entity that represents the entirety of an organism's hereditary information .
a gene is a material entity that represents the entire dna sequence required for synthesis of a functional protein or rna molecule .
a disposition that a gene can be used as a blueprint for generating a new form of product such as protein .
a gene disposition that a gene can be used as a blueprint for generating a protein  ( i .e . ,  a gene encodes for a protein )  .
a gene disposition that is the disposition of a gene that encodes for a trna .
a rna gene disposition that is for a gene that encodes for a rrna .
a rna gene disposition that is for a gene that encodes for a snrna .
a rna gene disposition that is for a gene that encodes for a trna .
a rna gene disposition that is for a gene that encodes for a scrna .
a rna gene disposition that is for a gene that encodes for a snorna .
a rna gene disposition that is for a gene that encodes for a miscrna .
a rna gene disposition that is for a gene that encodes for a ncrna .
a gene disposition that represents the disposition of gene being "pseudo" ,  i .e . ,  the gene is a pseudogene .
a gene disposition that represents the disposition of a gene that encodes for a transposon .
a gene disposition that is "other" ,  i .e . ,  the gene is for a gene product that is not listed for another other gene type .
a gene disposition that represents the disposition of gene where the gene product is unknown .
a gene that encodes for a rna
a rna gene that encodes for a miscrna
a rna gene that encodes for a ncrna
a rna gene that encodes for a rrna
a rna gene that encodes for a scrna
a rna gene that encodes for a snorna
a rna gene that encodes for a snrna
a rna gene that encodes for a trna
a gene that encodes for a protein
a gene that has lost its protein - coding ability or is otherwise no longer expressed in the cell .
a gene that encodes for a transposable genetic element that can change its position within the genome .
a gene that has an unknown gene disposition
a gene that has an other gene disposition
the genome of an organism of bacteria
the genome of an organism of proteobacteria
the genome of an organism of gammaproteobacteria
the genome of an organism of archaea
the genome of an organism of eukaryota
the genome of an organism of homo sapiens
the genome of an organism of viruses
the genome of an organism of human immunodeficiency virus 1
the genome of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv
the genome of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1
the genome of an organism of brucella melitensis bv .
the genome of an organism of influenza a virus  ( a / new york / 392 / 2004 ( h3n2 )  ) 
the genome of an organism of escherichia coli str .
a gene of an organism of bacteria
a gene of an organism of proteobacteria
a gene of an organism of gammaproteobacteria
a gene of an organism of archaea
a gene of an organism of eukaryota
a gene of an organism of homo sapiens
a gene of an organism of viruses
a gene of an organism of human immunodeficiency virus 1
a gene of an organism of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv
a gene of an organism of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1
a gene of an organism of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of an organism of influenza a virus  ( a / new york / 392 / 2004 ( h3n2 )  ) 
a gene of an organism of escherichia coli str .
a gene of homo sapiens that has a trna gene disposition
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a trna gene disposition
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a trna gene disposition
a gene of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of homo sapiens that has a rrna gene disposition
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a rrna gene disposition
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a rrna gene disposition
a gene of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of homo sapiens that has a snrna gene disposition
a gene of homo sapiens that has a snorna gene disposition
a gene of homo sapiens that has a protein - coding gene disposition
a gene of human immunodeficiency virus 1 that has a protein - coding gene disposition
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a protein - coding gene disposition
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a protein - coding gene disposition
a gene of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of influenza a virus  ( a / new york / 392 / 2004 ( h3n2 )  )  that has a protein - coding gene disposition
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of homo sapiens that has a pseudo gene disposition
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a pseudo gene disposition
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a pseudo gene disposition
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a miscrna gene disposition
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a miscrna gene disposition
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of homo sapiens that has a ncrna gene disposition
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a ncrna gene disposition
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a ncrna gene disposition
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of homo sapiens that has a rna gene disposition
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a rna gene disposition
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a rna gene disposition
a gene of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of homo sapiens that has a other gene disposition
a gene of human immunodeficiency virus 1 that has a other gene disposition
a gene of mycobacterium tuberculosis h37rv that has a other gene disposition
a gene of pseudomonas aeruginosa pao1 that has a other gene disposition
a gene of brucella melitensis bv .
a gene of influenza a virus  ( a / new york / 392 / 2004 ( h3n2 )  )  that has a other gene disposition
a gene of escherichia coli str .
a gene of homo sapiens that has a unknown gene disposition
