an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a structured controlled vocabulary for the source of an enzyme .
cells taken from a living organism and grown under controlled conditions  ( in culture )  .
a substance ,  either solid or liquid ,  used for the cultivation ,  isolation ,  identification ,  or storage of microorganisms .
other sources of an enzyme as cell culture or commercial preparation ,  not related to a specific tissue .
a monocarboxylic acid comprising 1 , 8 - naphthyridin - 4 - one substituted by carboxylic acid ,  ethyl and methyl groups at positions 3 ,  1 ,  and 7 ,  respectively .
a macrolide comprising a fourteen - membered lactone fused to 1 , 3 - dihydroxybenzene ;  a potent estrogenic metabolite produced by some giberella species .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the trianion of  ( r )  - 5 - phosphopantothenic acid arising from deprotonation of the carboxy and phosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3
a glycerophosphocholine having an unspecified o - acyl substituent at the 1 - position of the glycerol fragment .
a glycerophosphocholine having an unspecified acyl group attached at the 2 - position .
an alpha , omega dicarboxyacyl - coa that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with one of the carboxy groups of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric acid .
a  ribose diphosphate carrying an additional phosphate group at position 5 .
an antagonist that interferes with the action of the calcium - binding messenger protein calmodulin .
a disaccharide formed by a  ( 1 <  -  > 1 )  - glycosidic bond between two hexopyranose units .
a pyridinium ion obtained by protonation of the ring nitrogen of pyridoxal .
a pyridinium ion obtained by protonation of both nitrogens of pyridoxamine .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a carboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a dicarboxylic acid monoester .
an echinocandin initially isolated as a very minor bioactive fermentation product of glarea lozoyensis  ( originally known as zalerion arboricola )  .
a 2 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the acyl group is specified as tertadecanoyl  ( myristoyl )  .
any monounsaturated fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
any monounsaturated fatty acid anion carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid anion carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
a lysophosphatidylcholine 20:1 in which the acyl group is located at position 1 .
any member of the class of benzoquinones that is 1 , 4 - benzoquinone or its c - substituted derivatives .
any quinone in which one or more of the carbons making up the quinone moiety is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a naphthoquinone in which the oxo groups of the quinone moiety are at positions 1 and 4 of the parent naphthalene ring .
any naphthoquinone in which the naphthaoquinone moiety is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any member of the class of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinones in which the naphthoquinone moiety is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
a citrate anion obtained by deprotonation of the three carboxy groups as well as the hydroxy group of citric acid .
a reagent that lightens or whitens a substrate through chemical reaction .
an octadecenoate in which the double bond is at c - 9 .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of maleic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of suberic acid .
a drug that makes increases the sensitivity of tumour cells to radiation therapy .
a dipeptide obtained by formal condensation of the gamma - carboxy group of glutamic acid with the amino group of 2 - aminobutyric acid .
a peptide anion that is the conjugate base of gamma - glu - abu ,  obtained by removal of protons from the two carboxy groups as well as protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an oxaspiro compound in which a carbon atom of an epoxide ring is the only common member of two rings .
any organic heteroolycyclic compound whose skeleton two ortho - fused chromene rings ,  and their derivatives .
an acyl - coa oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate ,  diphosphate and carboxy groups of any omega - carboxyacyl - coa ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that results from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxylic acid groups of any 3 - hydroxydicarboxylic acid .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid that contains no carbon - carbon double bonds .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any oxo dicarboxylic acid .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - lysine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a tricarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of citric acid .
a phosphonium ylide that is 2 -  ( triphenylphosphoranylidene ) acetamide in which the nitrogen has been converted to the corresponding carbamoyl derivative .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to r ,  which can represent hydrogens ,  a carbon chain ,  or other groups .
an alpha - amino - acid cation obtained by protonation of the imidazole ring of ergothioneine .
an alcohol where the hydroxy group is attached to a saturated carbon atom adjacent to a double bond  ( r groups may be h ,  organyl ,  etc .
an aliphatic alcohol where the hydroxy carbon is beta to a double bond .
an allylic alcohol in which the carbon atom that links the double bond to the hydroxy group is also attached to two hydrogens .
an allylic alcohol in which the carbon atom that links the double bond to the hydroxy group is also attached to one other carbon and one hydrogen .
a furonaphthodioxole that is 4' - demethyldeoxypodophyllotoxin which is substituted at position 4 of the c - ring by a 2 - { [ 2 -  ( dimethylamino ) ethyl ]  ( methyl ) amino}ethyl group .
a udp - amino sugar having alpha - d - glucosamine as the amino - sugar component .
a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms ,  usually but not necessarily adjacent .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of homocysteine at the amino group ,  the carboxy group ,  or the side - chain amino group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of homocysteine by a heteroatom .
organonitrogen compounds that have the general structure r ( 1 )  ( r ( 2 )  ) c=n ( o ) oh  ( r ( 1 )  , r ( 2 )  = h ,  organyl )  .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any secondary amino compound ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an atom of an element that exhibits properties that are between those of metals and nonmetals ,  or that has a mixture of them .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino group of any tertiary amino compound .
any compound that can disrupt the functions of the endocrine  ( hormone )  system
any steroid carrying a 14alpha - methyl substituent .
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
a 2 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phospho - d - myo - inositol that has palmitoleoyl as the acyl group .
any pathway inhibitor that acts on the carotenoid biosynthesis pathway .
a nucleoside 5' - monophosphate ( 2 -  )  obtained by deprotonation of the phospohate oh groups of any pyrimidine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1 , 3 - dihydroimidazole - 2 - thione and its derivatives by substitution .
any molecular entity in which the isotopic ratio of nuclides for at least one element deviates measurably from that occurring in nature .
an alpha - oxyketone that has a hydroxy group as the alpha - oxy moiety .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a  - ch2  ( methylene )  group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing two organyl groups .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with ammonia ;  formula rc ( =o ) nh2 .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with a primary amine ;  formula rc ( =o ) nhr ( 1 )  .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a nucleotide - sugar oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups of any udp - monosaccharide .
any saturated fatty acid containing 4 carbons .
a primary ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the amino group of l - tyrosinal .
any carbobycyclic compound that is an hexahydronaphthalene or a compound obtained from an hexahydronaphthalene by formal substitution of one or more hydrogens .
a purine ribonucleoside that is a purine derivative attached to a beta - d - ribofuranosyl residue at position 9 via a glycosidic  ( n - glycosyl )  linkage .
a purine derivative attached to a beta - d - 2' - deoxy - ribofuranosyl residue at position 9 via a glycosidic  ( n - glycosyl )  linkage .
a organic ion resulting from the deprotonation of the hydroxy group of any oxime .
a benzoate ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of vanillic acid  with the hydroxy group of  (  -  )  - borneol .
a triazinoindole that is 5h -  [ 1 , 2 , 4 ] triazino [ 5 , 6 - b ] indole which is substituted at position 3 by a  ( 2 - methylprop - 2 - en - 1 - yl ) thio group .
any heterotricyclic compound whose skeleton consists of an indole fused to a triazine ring .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of the hydroxy group of an enol .
a polar amino acid zwitterion restulting from the transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the alpha - amino group of d - histidine .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion arising from the transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of d - leucine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of d - homoserine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a phosphatidylinositol where r1 can be an alkyl or an acyl chain and 2r2 is an acyl chain .
any nitroso compound in which a carbon atom of an organyl group is attached to the sulfur atom of a nitrosothio group: r - s - n=o .
macrolides  ( macrocyclic lactones )  in which the macrocyclic ring contains more than one ester linkage .
a macropolylide which contains two ester linkages in one macrocyclic ring .
a macrolide in which the macrocyclic lactone ring includes an amide group .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of  ( s )  - 2 - methylbutanoic acid .
a phosphatidylinositol anion where the inositol is either not phosphorylated or phosphorylated at position 4 and / or position 5 ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a phosphatidylinositol anion where the inositol is phosphorylated at position 3 and either phosphorylated or not at position 4 and / or position 5 ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
any antiviral agent which inhibits the activity of coronaviruses .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from selenic acid .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from hydrogen sulfide .
a purine nucleobase found in humans and other organisms .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
the aldehyde formed from acetic acid by reduction of the carboxy group .
a thiol comprising a panthothenate unit in phosphoric anhydride linkage with a 3' , 5' - adenosine diphosphate unit ;  and an aminoethanethiol unit .
an acyl - coa having acetyl as its s - acetyl component .
a choline that is the parent compound of the cholines class ,  consisting of ethanolamine having three methyl substituents attached to the amino function .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
a large group of antibiotics isolated from various species of streptomyces and characterised by having a substituted phenoxazine ring linked to two cyclic heterodetic peptides .
an oxygen hydride consisting of an oxygen atom that is covalently bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
a sulfonium compound that is the s - adenosyl derivative of l - methionine .
the simplest  ( and the only achiral )  proteinogenic amino acid ,  with a hydrogen atom as its side chain .
the simplest hydroxylamine ,  consisting of ammonia bearing a hydroxy substituent .
a triterpene consisting of 2 , 6 , 10 , 15 , 19 , 23 - hexamethyltetracosane having six double bonds at the 2 -  ,  6 -  ,  10 -  ,  14 -  ,  18 -  and 22 - positions with  ( all - e )  - configuration .
an omega - carboxyacyl - coa that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with one of the carboxy groups of glutaric acid .
the s - malonyl derivative of coenzyme a .
the d - enantiomer of alanine .
a peptide zwitterion obtained from the tranfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group of any tripeptide .
the l - enantiomer of leucine .
major microspecies at ph 7 .3 .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
the l - enantiomer of homoserine .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a ketoheptose phosphate consisting of sedoheptulose having a phosphate group at the 7 - position .
an optically active form of ornithine having l - configuration .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid resulting from the formal oxidation of each of the terminal methyl groups of butane to the corresponding carboxy group .
any n - acyl - amino acid in which the amino acid moiety has d configuration .
a d - alpha - amino acid that is the d - isomer of arginine .
fructose is a levorotatory monosaccharide and an isomer of glucose .
a polyprenol diphosphate having geranylgeranyl as the polyprenyl component .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
a pyrimidine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having 6 - carboxyuracil as the nucleobase .
a deoxyglucose that is d - glucose in which the hydroxy group at position 2 has been replaced by a hydrogen .
an organic hydroxy compound that consists of benzene bearing a single hydroxy substituent .
any 3 - hydroxy steroid whose skeleton is closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol  ( additional carbon atoms may be present in the side chain )  .
d - glucopyranose with beta configuration at the anomeric centre .
a fatty acid with a chain length ranging from c13 to c22 .
an amidoalkyl phosphate that is the 4 - phosphate derivative of  ( r )  - pantothenic acid .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxy group .
an organic heterobicyclic compound that consists of 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazole having a valeric acid substituent attached to the tetrahydrothiophene ring .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having d - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of the amino acid histidine .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity with a polymeric structure comprised of a linear sequence of 13 or more nucleotide residues .
a member of the class of  ethanolamines that is ethane with an amino substituent at c - 1 and a hydroxy substituent at c - 2 ,  making it both a primary amine and a primary alcohol .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having l - configuration .
a ketotriose consisting of acetone bearing hydroxy substituents at positions 1 and 3 .
a methyladenosine carrying a methyl substituent at position 1 .
the n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - dimethyl derivative of l - histidine .
a class of glycerophospholipids in which a phosphatidyl group is esterified to the hydroxy group of ethanolamine .
an aminopyrimidine that is pyrimidin - 2 - one having the amino group located at position 4 .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
a cyclic dicarboximide in which the two carboacyl groups on nitrogen together with the nitogen itself form a 1h - pyrrole - 2 , 5 - dione structure .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur hydride consisting of a single sulfur atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
the simplest member of the class of  benzoates that is the conjugate base of benzoic acid ,  comprising a benzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
a dihydroxybenzoate that is the  conjugate base of o - orsellinic acid .
the d - enantiomer of ornithine .it is an intermediate metabolite produced in the urea cycle .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
an octadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the double bond at c - 9 has z  ( cis )  stereochemistry .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a 2 - aminopurine carrying a 6 - oxo substituent .
a primary alcohol that is ethane in which one of the hydrogens is substituted by a hydroxy group .
an inorganic peroxide consisting of two hydroxy groups joined by a covalent oxygen - oxygen single bond .
a lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or di - ester .
an amino alcohol that is propanol substituted by 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl group at position 3 and an amino group at position 2  ( the 2s stereoisomer )  .
a udp - amino sugar having n - acetyl - alpha - d - glucosamine as the amino sugar component .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate having adenine as the nucleobase .
the d - enantiomer of tryptophan .
the nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from nitrous acid .
a 2' - deoxycytidine phosphate having cytosine as the nucleobase .
the d - enantiomer of proline .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of adenine attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
a derivative of glycerol in which one hydroxy group ,  commonly but not necessarily primary ,  is esterified with phosphoric acid and the other two are esterified with fatty acids .
the l - enantiomer of citrulline .
an optically active form of cysteine having d - configuration .
an aconitate ( 3 -  )  that is the conjugate base of cis - aconitic acid .
compounds having the structure rsr  ( r = / = h )  .
any benzoquinone derived from 2 , 3 - dimethoxy - 5 - methylbenzoquinone ;  one of a group of naturally occurring homologues .
the simplest monocarboxylic acid amide ,  obtained by formal condensation of formic acid with ammonia .
an optically active form of threonine having d - configuration .
a monohydroxypyridine that is pyridine substituted by a hydroxy group at position 3 ,  an aminomethyl group at position 4 ,  a hydroxymethyl group at position 5 and a methyl group at position 2 .
the l - enantiomer of valine .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of propionic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of pantothenic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a prenol phosphate resulting from the formal condensation of the terminal allylic hydroxy group of a polyprenol with 1 mol eq .
an l - alpha - amino acid that is the l - isomer of arginine .
a nitrogen oxide which is a free radical ,  each molecule of which consists of one nitrogen and one oxygen atom .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate having guanine as the nucleobase .
a tetracyclic triterpenoid that is lanosta - 8 , 24 - diene substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at the 3beta position .
the r - enantiomer of serine .
a naturally occurring polypeptide synthesized at the ribosome .
a trehalose in which both glucose residues have alpha - configuration at the anomeric carbon .
a 2 - aminooctadecane - 1 , 3 - diol having  ( 2s , 3r )  - configuration .
a propenol in which the c=c bond connects c - 2 and c - 3 .
a triamine that is the 1 , 5 , 10 - triaza derivative of decane .
a methoxybenzoate that is the conjugate base of vanillic acid .
a trisaccharide composed of alpha - d - galactopyranose ,  alpha - d - glucopyranose and beta - d - fructofuranose joined in sequence by 1 -  > 6 and 1 <  -  > 2 glycosidic linkages ,  respectively .
the l - enantiomer of methionine .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
an organic sulfide that is the s - adenosyl derivative of l - homocysteine .
a pyrimidine ribonucleoside 5' - monophosphate having uracil as the nucleobase .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 5 of the ribose ring is mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphorylated .
the parent compound of the 6 - aminopurines ,  composed of a purine having an amino group at c - 6 .
a hydroxymethylpyridine with hydroxymethyl groups at positions 4 and 5 ,  a hydroxy group at position 3 and a methyl group at position 2 .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
a  2 - acylglycerophosphocholine in which the glycerol moiety has sn stereochemistry and which has an unspecified acyl group attached at the 2 - position .
a phosphatidylinositol in which the inositol moiety is the 1d - myo isomer and the phosphatidyl group is located at its position 1 .
a purine ribonucleoside 5' - diphosphate having adenine as the nucleobase .
an oxo dicarboxylate obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of 2 - oxoglutaric acid .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a methylthio substituent at position 4 .
the l - enantiomer of tryptophan .
the simplest of the methylamines ,  consisting of ammonia bearing a single methyl substituent .
a dicarboxylic acid that is glutaric acid in which one of the two hydrogens at position 3 is substituted by a hydroxy group ,  while the other is substituted by a methyl group .
a member of the class of 2 - benzofurans that is 2 - benzofuran - 1 ( 3h )  - one which is substituted at positions 4 ,  5 ,  6 ,  and 7 by methyl ,  methoxy ,   ( 2e )  - 5 - carboxy - 3 - methylpent - 2 - en - 1 - yl ,  and hydroxy groups ,  respectively .
an aldehyde resulting from the formal oxidation of methanol .
the d - enantiomer of the alpha - amino acid lysine .
a tripeptide compound consisting of glutamic acid attached via its side chain to the n - terminus of cysteinylglycine .
an optically active form of threonine having l - configuration .
an optically active form of methionine having d - configuration .
a quinoline n - oxide carrying a nitro substituent at position 4 .
an oligosaccharide derivative in which at least one hydroxy group has been phosphorylated .
a phytosterol consisting of ergostane having double bonds at the 5 , 6 -  ,  7 , 8 -  and 22 , 23 - positions as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
a tricarboxylic acid trianion ,  obtained by deprotonation of the three carboxy groups of citric acid .
the n - acetyl derivative of d - glucosaminic acid .
a naturally - occurring beta - amino acid comprising propionic acid with the amino group in the 3 - position .
a polysaccharide composed of two or more different types of monosaccharides , 
the l - enantiomer of alanine .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in d - glyceraldehyde .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
the d - enantiomer of phenylalanine .
the l - enantiomer of aspartic acid .
the d - enantiomer of glutamine .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
a derivative of alpha - d - ribose having a phosphate group at the 5 - position and a diphosphate at the 1 - position .
the l - enantiomer of serine .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexanoic acid  ( also known as caproic acid )  .
a pyridinecarboxamide that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxamide group .
a 2 - oxo aldehyde derived from propanal .
an epoxydodecadienamide isolated from several species ,  including acremonium ,  acrocylindrum and helicoceras .
the l - enantiomer of isoleucine .
an optically active form of asparagine having l - configuration .
pyrrolidine in which the pro - s hydrogen at position 2 is substituted by a carboxylic acid group .
a sulfur - containing amino acid consisting of a glycine core with a 2 - mercaptoethyl side - chain .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
a pyrimidine ribonucleoside 5' - diphosphate having cytosine as the nucleobase .
the 7h - tautomer of purine .
an inositol having myo -  configuration .
the conjugate base of propionic acid ;  a key precursor in lipid biosynthesis .
a member of the class of dihydrochalcones that is dihydrochalcone substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 4 ,  2' ,  4' and 6' .
the l - enantiomer of phenylalanine .
a primary arylamine in which an amino functional group is substituted for one of the benzene hydrogens .
a pyrimidine nucleotide - sugar having udp as the nucleotide component attached to an unspecified sugar via an anomeric diphosphate linkage .
a glycosylglucose consisting of two d - glucopyranose units connected by an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linkage .
a pyridinecarbaldehyde that is pyridine - 4 - carbaldehyde bearing methyl ,  hydroxy and hydroxymethyl substituents at positions 2 ,  3 and 5 respectively .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that results from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxylic acid groups of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric acid .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
the d - enantiomer of aspartic acid .
a purine nucleobase that consists of purine bearing an oxo substituent at position 6 .
the trans , trans - stereoisomer of farnesyl diphosphate .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid containing five carbon atoms .
a diadenosyl tetraphosphate compound having the two 5' - adenosyl residues attached at the p ( 1 )  -  and p ( 4 )  - positions .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
a 3' , 5' - cyclic purine nucleotide having having adenine as the nucleobase .
a pseudohalide anion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen cyanide .
a glycerophosphoglycerol that is glycerol in which the hydrogen of one of the primary hydroxy groups has been replaced by a phosphatidyl group .
a carbohydrate that is an acyclic polyol having the general formula hoch2 [ ch ( oh )  ] nch2oh  ( formally derivable from an aldose by reduction of the carbonyl group )  .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
an optically active form of cysteine having l - configuration .
a pyrimidine nucleoside in which cytosine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the trianion obtained by removal of the three protons from the diphosphate group of 2 - trans , 6 - trans - farnesyl diphosphate .
the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent .
a glucooligosaccharide derived from glucose monomers linked via alpha - d - 1 , 4 bonds as in maltose .
a purine nucleoside in which hypoxanthine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n ( 9 )  - glycosidic bond .
any d - aldose having a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
a ferulic acid consisting of trans - cinnamic acid bearing methoxy and hydroxy substituents at positions 3 and 4 respectively on the phenyl ring .
a nitrogen oxoanion formed by loss of a proton from nitric acid .
a glucose with d - configuration .
a substance to which an electron may be transferred .
an organochlorine compound that is dichloro - substituted acetamide containing a nitrobenzene ring ,  an amide bond and two alcohol functions .
a  glycosylglucose disaccharide ,  found most notably in milk ,  that consists of d - galactose and d - glucose fragments bonded through a beta - 1 -  > 4 glycosidic linkage .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside having thymine as the nucleobase .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
ceramides  ( n - acyl - sphingoid bases )  are a major subclass of sphingoid base derivatives with an amide - linked fatty acid .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond  ( where x is a halogen atom )  .
a pyrimidine nucleobase that is uracil in which the hydrogen at position 5 is replaced by a methyl group .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine substituted at position 3 by a hydroxy group .
any glyceride resulting from the condensation of all three hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is a linear five - carbon dicarboxylic acid .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
an optically active form of tyrosine having l - configuration .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of butyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a thioester that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid .
a glycosyl glycoside formed by glucose and fructose units joined by an acetal oxygen bridge from hemiacetal of glucose to the hemiketal of the fructose .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
an l - alpha - amino acid ;  the l - isomer of lysine .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resuting from selective deprotonation of the carboxy group of phosphoenolpyruvic acid .
a glyceride that is glycerol in which any two of the hydroxy groups have been acylated .
an optically active form of glutamine having l - configuration .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
a thymidine phosphate having a diphosphate group at the 5' - position .
any six - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldohexose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketohexose )  .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
any phosphatidylinositol that is phosphorylated at one or more of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
an alpha - amino acid that is phenylalanine bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 4 on the phenyl ring .
the parent compound of the citrulline class consisting of ornithine having a carbamoyl group at the n ( 5 )  - position .
an arsenic oxoacid comprising one oxo group and three hydroxy groups attached to a central arsenic atom .
an alpha - amino acid that is glutaric acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
a 3beta - sterol having double bonds in the 5 -  ,  7 -  and 22 - positions and a methylene group at position 24 .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
an alpha - amino acid that is pentanoic acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 5 .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
a butenedioic acid in which the double bond has cis -   ( z )  - configuration .
a class of aminophospholipids in which a phosphatidyl group is esterified to the hydroxy group of serine .
a udp - sugar having d - galactose as the sugar component .
a alpha , beta - unsaturated monocarboxylic acid that is ethene substituted by a carboxy group .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
a 1 -  ( phosphoribosyl ) imidazolecarboxamide resulting from the formal condesation of the darboxy group of 5 - amino - 1 -  ( 5 - o - phosphono - beta - d - ribofuranosyl )  - 1h - imidazole - 4 - carboxylic acid with the amino group of l - aspartic acid .
the threo - diastereomer of 1 , 4 - dimercaptobutane - 2 , 3 - diol .
a vitamin b6 phosphate that is the  phosphoric ester derivative of pyridoxamine .
a phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate in which the two phosphate groups are at c - 4 and c - 5 of the inositol moiety which has the 1d - myo configuration .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
a ribosyl or deoxyribosyl derivative of a pyrimidine or purine base in which c - 3 and c - 5 of the ribose ring are engaged in formation of a cyclic mono -  ,  di -  ,  tri -  or tetra - phosphate .
a compound having the structure rc#n ;  thus a c - substituted derivative of hydrocyanic acid ,  hc#n .
a gluconate having d - configuration .
a 1 -  ( phosphoribosyl ) imidazolecarboxamide that is acadesine in which the hydroxy group at the 5' position has been converted to its monophosphate derivative .
a one - carbon compound consisting of a methine group triple bonded to a nitrogen atom
a lactone having a six - membered lactone ring .
a tautomer of pyrrole that has the double bonds at positions 2 and 4 .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside that has a purine moiety as the nucleobase  ( the r group in the illustration )  .
a deoxyaldopentose phosphate in which the deoxyaldopentose is 2 - deoxyribose .
a hydroxy fatty acyl - coa that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with the carboxy group of any 3 - hydroxy fatty acid .
an n - glycosyl - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine that is 4 - amino - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 ( 1h )  - one substituted by a beta - d - ribofuranosyl residue via an n - glycosidic linkage .
any aminopurine having the amino substituent at the 2 - position .
any compound having 6 - aminopurine  ( adenine )  as part of its structure .
a mitochondrial respiratory - chain inhibitor that interferes with the action of atp synthase .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a carbon atom ,  thus creating a c - c bond .
any alpha - amino acid ester that is the ester of l - glutamic acid .
an n - acetyl - amino acid having d - configuration .
an l - amino acid having an n - acetyl substituent .
an n - acyl - amino acid that has acetyl as the acyl group .
any n - acylamino acid having l - configuration .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
an non - proteinogenic l - alpha - amino acid in which the amino group bears one or more methyl groups .
an n - nitroguanidine compound having nitroso and methyl substituents at the n' - position
an amino acid derivative in which at least one of the hydrogens of the amino group has been replaced by a methyl group .
a  n - methyl - l - alpha - amino acid that is l - histidine in which at least one of the amino hydrogens has been replaced by a methyl group .
an organosulfur compound having the structure r2s=o or r2c=s=o  ( r = / = h )  .
a substance used to destroy pests of the subclass acari  ( mites and ticks )  .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an n - acetyl - l - amino acid that is the n - acetyl derivative of l - lysine .
any amino acid derivative that is the n - acetyl or o - acetyl derivative of an amino acid .
a tricarboxylic acid trianion that is the conjugate base of aconitic acid .
a tricarboxylic acid that is prop - 1 - ene substituted by carboxy groups at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of an aldonic acid .
an aldonic acid in which at least one of the hydroxy groups has been phosphorylated .
any carbohydrate acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde functional group of an aldose to a carboxylic acid functional group .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
any amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by alkyl groups .
highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning .
an amide of an amino acid formed formally by conversion of the carboxy group to a carboxamido group .
an alcohol containing an amino functional group in addition to the alcohol - defining hydroxy group .
a univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of an alpha - amino acid .
any aldehyde which contains an amino group .
an amino alcohol having two hydroxy functional groups .
any member of the class of  imidazoles carrying at least one amino substituent .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
any  aromatic amine that is benzene carrying at least one amino substituent and its substituted derivatives .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a substance that destroys or inhibits replication of viruses .
an arsenic oxoanion resulting from the removal of one or more protons from arsenous acid .
a monocarboxylic acid amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an arene ring system .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 2 - amino - 2 - oxoethyl group .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - aspartic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( asparagine ,  lysine ,  methionine ,  threonine and isoleucine )  .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of succinic acid bearing a single alpha - amino substituent
the most used of the bafilomycins ,  a family of toxic macrolide antibiotics derived from streptomyces griseus .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring fused to an imidazole ring .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that consists of benzene in which at least a single hydrogen has been substituted by a carboxy group .
any quinone resulting from the formal oxidation of catechol ,  hydroquinone ,  or their c - substituted derivatives .
compounds containing a phenylmethanol skeleton .
any d - glucoside in which the anomeric centre has beta - configuration .
any amino acid - derived zwitterion  -  such as glycine betaine  ( n , n , n - trimethylammonioacetate )   -  in which the ammonium nitrogen carries three methyl substituents .
by usage ,  the methylenediphenols ,  hoc6h4ch2c6h4oh ,  commonly p , p - methylenediphenol ,  and their substitution products  ( generally derived from condensation of two equivalent amounts of a phenol with an aldehyde or ketone )  .
a glyceric acid phosphate in which both of the hydroxy groups have been phosphorylated .
a glycopeptide produced by the bacterium streptomyces verticillus .
an insecticide compound naturally occurring in plants .
any  amino acid  in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents
a diol that is a butanediol or a derivative of a butanediol .
any ester of carbamic acid or its n - substituted derivatives .
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
any carbohydrate derivative that exhibits antibiotic activity .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
any organochlorine compound containing a benzene ring which is substituted by one or more chlorines .
a quaternary ammonium ion based on the choline ion and its substituted derivatives thereof .
any alpha , beta - unsaturated monocarboxylic acid based on the cinnamic acid skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a low - molecular - weight ,  non - protein organic compound participating in enzymatic reactions as dissociable acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
salts and c - organyl derivatives of hydrogen cyanide ,  hc#n .
a cyclic terpene ketone in which the terpene specified is monoterpene .
a polyol consisting of a cycloalkane containing at least three hydroxy groups ,  each attached to a different ring carbon atom .
any alicyclic ketone based on a cyclohexane skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of cysteine by a heteroatom .
an organic heterotricyclic compound ,  that is a mycotoxin which is cell permeable an an inhibitor of cytoplasmic division by blocking the formation of contractile microfilaments .
a deoxyhexose comprising glucose having at least one hydroxy group replaced by hydrogen .
any c6 deoxy sugar having at least one hydroxy group replaced by hydrogen .
any sugar having a hydroxy group replaced with a hydrogen atom .
a natural or synthetic compound having a sequence of amino and hydroxy carboxylic acid residues  ( usually alpha - amino and alpha - hydroxy acids )  ,  commonly but not necessarily regularly alternating .
an azole that is either one of a pair of heterocyclic organic compounds comprising three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms arranged in a ring .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes carrying two chloro groups at unspecified positions .
any member of the class of  hydroxybenzoic acids carrying  two phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring and its derivatives .
a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
any primary alcohol based on an ethanol skeleton .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid with ethanol .
a methanesulfonate ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with ethanol .
amides with the general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) ncho  ( r ( 1 )  and r ( 2 )  can be h )  .
a substance used to destroy fungal pests .
an oligosaccharide comprised of glucose residues .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - glutamine at the amino group ,  the carboxy group ,  or the carboxamide ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - glutamine by a heteroatom .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glutamate -  - ammonia ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .2 )  .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of glutaric acid .
any  omega - carboxyacyl - coa in which the acyl group specified is glutaryl or its substituted derivative .
any organonitrogen compound derived from the glu - cys - gly tripeptide glutathione .
an aldonic acid phosphate where the aldonic acid component is glyceric acid .
any carbohydrate derivative that consists of glycan moieties covalently attached to the side chains of the amino acid residues that constitute the peptide .
any phospholipid that contain both phosphate and carbohydrate as integral structural components .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
a glycosphingolipid is a glycolipid that is a carbohydrate - containing derivative of a sphingoid or ceramide .
any disaccharide in which the two monosaccharide components are connected by a glycosidic linkage between their anomeric centres .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
any organonitrogen compound containing a carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  group .
a lipopeptide that is isolated from aspergillus aculeatus and exhibits antifungal activity .
a substance used to destroy plant pests .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide is a peptide consisting only of amino - acid residues ,  but in which the linkages forming the ring are not solely peptide bonds ;  one or more is an isopeptide ,  disulfide ,  ester ,  or other bond .
a c6 ,  medium - chain fatty acid carrying a double bond at any position along the main chain .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of histidine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of histidine by a heteroatom .
a homodetic cyclic peptide is a cyclic peptide in which the ring consists solely of amino - acid residues in peptide linkages .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
an oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from the hydroxy group of any hydroxamic acid .
a compound ,  rke ( =o ) lnhoh ,  derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh )   ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing  - oh with  - nhoh ,  and derivatives thereof .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
any fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
any carboxylic acid with at least one hydroxy group .
any benzoate derivative carrying a single carboxylate group and at least one hydroxy substituent .
any benzoic acid carrying one or more phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing one hydrogen and one organyl group .
any member of the class of  cinnamic acids carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
hydroxylamine ,  h2n - oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
any member of the class of pyridines with at least one hydroxy substituent .
a chlorine oxoacid with formula hocl ;  a weak ,  unstable acid ,  it is the active form of chlorine in water .
a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
any compound containing an indole skeleton .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
compounds of structure roor' in which r and r' are inorganic groups .
any cyclohexane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexol .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
a role played by a chemical agent which exhibits the capability of occupying space between dna base pairs due to particular properties in size ,  shape and charge .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a compound which can carry specific ions through membranes of cells or organelles .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any  ionophore capable of transportation of iron ions across membranes .
a 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid having either  ( 2r , 3r )  -  or  ( 2s , 3s )  - configuration .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
any compound that has an aldehydic and ketonic group in the same molecule .
any hexose containing a single ketone group .
ketonic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy ketones h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o )  [ ch ( oh )  ] mh )  and their intramolecular hemiketals .
any ketone - containing triose .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
any cyclic carboxylic ester containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or an analogue having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isobutyl group .
any phenylpropanoid  derived from phenylalanine via dimerization of substituted cinnamic alcohols ,  known as monolignols ,  to a dibenzylbutane skeleton .
a diamino acid that is caproic  ( hexanoic )  acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - lysine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - lysine by a heteroatom .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members derived from a polyketide .
any short - chain fatty acyl - coa in which the the fatty acid specified is malonic acid or its derivatives .
a class of complex phosphoglycosphingolipids with a mannose - inositol - p head group .
an oligosaccharide comprised of mannose residues .
a glycol that is butane - 2 , 3 - diol in which a hydrogen from each of the methyl groups is replaced by a thiol group .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
an organosulfonic ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol .
a 1 , 1 - diunsubstituted alkanesulfonate that is the conjugate base of methanesulfonic acid .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of methionine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of methionine  by a heteroatom .
compounds containing a benzene skeleton substituted with one methoxy group .
any benzoic acid carrying one or more methoxy substituents .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxy group with methanol .
a methanesulfonate ester resulting from the formal condensation of methanesulfonic acid with methanol .
any member of the class of pyridines that carries at least one methyl substituent .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of mevalonic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid comprising valeric acid having two hydroxy groups at the 3 -  and 5 - positions together with a methyl group at the 3 - position .
a family of aziridine - containing natural products isolated from streptomyces caespitosus or streptomyces lavendulae .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
a hydroxybenzoate carrying a single hydroxy substituent at unspecified position .
any hydroxybenzoic acid having a single phenolic hydroxy substituent on the benzene ring .
a terpene ketone derived from a monoterpene .
any terpenoid derived from a monoterpene .
any fatty acid with one double or triple bond in the fatty acid chain and singly bonded carbon atoms in the rest of the chain .
an agent that increases the frequency of mutations above the normal background level ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
poisonous substance produced by fungi .
an inositol phosphate in which the inositol component has myo - configuration .
a 2 , 4' - bi - 1 , 3 - thiazole substituted at the 4 - position with a  ( 1e , 3s , 4r , 5e )  - 7 - amino - 3 , 5 - dimethoxy - 4 - methyl - 7 - oxohepta - 1 , 5 - dien - 1 - yl ]  group and at the 2' - position with a  ( 2s , 3e , 5e )  - 7 - methylocta - 3 , 5 - dien - 2 - yl group .
any benzenoid aromatic compound having a skeleton composed of two ortho - fused benzene rings .
a polycyclic aromatic ketone metabolite of naphthalene .
a substance used to destroy pests of the phylum nematoda  ( roundworms )  .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
a member of the class of pyridines that is a substituted pyridine in which at least one of the substituents is a carboxamide or n - substituted caraboxamide group .
a nucleobase - containing molecular entity that is a nucleoside in which one or more of the sugar hydroxy groups has been converted into a mono -  or poly - phosphate .
a fatty acid anion 18:0 that is the conjugate base of octadecanoic acid  ( stearic acid )  .
any member of the group of c18 monounsaturated fatty acids with the double bond located at any position in the chain .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of octanoic acid  ( caprylic acid )  ;  believed to block adipogenesis .
any of the 26 - membered ring macrolides produced by streptomyces species that can be toxic to other organisms through their ability to inhibit mitochondrial membrane - bound atp synthases .
a peptide containing a relatively small number of amino acids .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
compounds of the general formula so3hor where r is an organyl group
a compound having bonds between one or more metal atoms and one or more carbon atoms of an organyl group .
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an organophosphorus compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon - phosphorus bond ,  but the term is often extended to include esters and thioesters .
an organoselenium compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - selenium bond .
a nucleoside formed by attaching orotic acid to a ribose ring via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
a solute used by a cell under water stress to maintain cell volume .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
compounds of structure r2c=noh derived from condensation of aldehydes or ketones with hydroxylamine .
any compound that has an aldehydic or ketonic group as well as a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule .
any fatty acid anion containing at least one c - c unsaturated bond ;  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
a quinone in which the two oxo groups of the quinone are located para to each other on the 6 - membered quinonoid ring .
a class of amides formed from pantoic acid and beta - alanine and its derivatives .
a five - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldopentose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketopentose )  .
any peptide with hormonal activity in animals ,  whether endocrine ,  neuroendocrine ,  or paracrine .
compounds of structure roor' .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
any organic aromatic compound with a structure based on a phenylpropane skeleton .
a semiochemical used in olfactory communication between organisms of the same species eliciting a change in sexual or social behaviour .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
a phosphatidylinositol monophosphate carrying the phosphate group at the 3 - position .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
sterols similar to cholesterol which occur in plants and vary only in carbon side chains and / or presence or absence of a double bond .
an endogenous molecular entity that results in a colour of an organism as the consequence of the selective absorption of light .
a chemical ,  natural or artificial ,  that can affect the rate of growth of a plant .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
a family of antibiotics containing a conjugated polyene moiety ,  usuallly isolated from some species of streptomyces .
natural and synthetic compounds containing alternating carbonyl and methylene groups  ( 'beta - polyketones' )  ,  biogenetically derived from repeated condensation of acetyl coenzyme a  ( via malonyl coenzyme a )  ,  and usually the compounds derived from them by further condensations ,  etc .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
members of the class of phenols that contain 2 or more benzene rings each of which is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any member of the class of  prenols possessing the general formula h -  [ ch2c ( me ) =chch2 ] noh in which the carbon skeleton is composed of more than one isoprene units .
any fatty acid containing more than one double bond .
natural pigments containing a fundamental skeleton of four pyrrole nuclei united through the alpha - positions by four methine groups to form a macrocyclic structure .
any alkali metal salt having potassium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
any alcohol possessing the general formula h -  [ ch2c ( me ) =chch2 ] noh in which the carbon skeleton is composed of one or more isoprene units  ( biogenetic precursors of the isoprenoids )  .
a quinone substituted by a polyprenyl - derived side - chain .
an alpha - amino acid that is pyrrolidine bearing a carboxy substituent at position 2 .
an aldehyde based on a propanal skeleton and its derivatives .
derivatives of oxoacids rne ( =o ) oh in which the hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group and the oxo group is replaced by =nr .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from purine .
a member of the class of pyrazines resulting from the formal monoacylation of guanidine with the carboxy group of 3 , 5 - diamino - 6 - chloropyrazine - 2 - carboxylic acid .
any nucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a ribonucleoside that has a purine moiety as the nucleobase  ( the r group in the illustration )  .
any ribonucleotide that has a purine nucleobase .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is attached to a pyridine  ( or substituted pyridine )  ring .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from pyrimidine .
an azole that includes only one n atom and no other heteroatom as a part of the aromatic skeleton .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from pyruvate  ( i .e .
a nitrogen molecular entity that is electronically neutral but which contains a quaternary nitrogen .
a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds each of which contains a benzene ring ortho fused to carbons 2 and 3 of a pyridine ring .
a molecular entity possessing an unpaired electron .
molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
any compound with a 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine skeleton ,  in which nitrogen atoms replace carbon at positions 1 ,  3 and 5 of the core benzene ring structure .
a glycoside that is a compound containing one or more hydrophilic glycoside moieties combined with a lipophilic triterpenoid or steroid derivative .
any organic polycyclic compound that is the aglycon moiety of a saponin ;  sapogenins may be steroids or triterpenoids .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
a member of the class of 1 - benzofurans that is 1 - benzofuran substituted by a butyl group at position 2 and a 4 -  [ 2 -  ( diethylamino ) ethoxy ]  - 3 , 5 - diiodobenzoyl group at position 3 .
a molecular messenger released by an organism that affects the behaviour within or between species .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of serine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of serine by a heteroatom .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from 3 - phosphoglycerate  ( i .e .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
any of low - molecular - mass iron ( iii )  - chelating compounds produced by microorganisms for the purpose of the transport and sequestration of iron .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
sphingolipids are a complex family of compounds that share a common structural feature ,  a sphingoid base backbone .
any olefinic compound characterised by a 1 , 2 - diphenylethylene backbone .
an n - glycosyl compound consisting of 2 - amino - 4 - o - carbamoyl - 2 - deoxy - n -  [  ( 3as , 7r , 7as )  - 7 - hydroxy - 4 - oxooctahydro - 2h - imidazo [ 4 , 5 - c ] pyridin - 2 - ylidene ]  - beta - d - gulopyranosylamine in which the amino group at position 2 of the gulopyranosyl moiety is acylated by a peptide unit made up of between 1 and 7 n ( epsilon )  - linked units of beta - lysine .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of succinic acid .
an ester of an alcohol and sulfuric acid .
a macrolide antibiotic used to treat potentially life - threatening fungal infections .
salts and esters of sulfuric acid
any sulfur molecular entity that involves either covalently bonded or anionic sulfur .
a sulfur oxoacid that consists of two oxo and two hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central sulfur atom .
any terpenoid which contains a keto group .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
any triterpenoid consisting of a tetracyclic skeleton .
a subclass of polyketides having an octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide skeleton ,  substituted with many hydroxy and other groups .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
a natural pigment containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
an ester in which one or both oxygens of an ester group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
compounds containing at least one thiophene ring .
an organic tricyclic compound in which at least one of the rings of the tricyclic skeleton contains one or more heteroatoms .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
any member of the class of benzenes that is a substituted benzene in which the substituents include one  ( and only one )  methyl group .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a disaccharide formed by a  ( 1 <  -  > 1 )  - glycosidic bond between two units of d - glucose .
an oxoacid containing three carboxy groups .
a chemical compound containing three hydroxy groups .
a monosaccharide containing three carbon atoms ,  which is important in respiration .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c or c#c bond .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isopropyl group .
a fatty acid which has a chain length greater than c22 .
any plant metabolite that is found naturally as a component of a volatile oil .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
an alkanesulfonic acid in which the alkyl group directly linked to the sulfo functionality is methyl .
the d - enantiomer of valine .
any l - cysteine derivative obtained by conversion of the thiol group into a sulfide .
a  saturated organic heteromonocyclic parent that is a three - membered heterocycle of two carbon atoms and one oxygen atom .
an alpha - amino acid that is propanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl group at position 3 .
a spiroketal ,  monensin a is the major component of monensin ,  a mixture of antibiotic substances produced by streptomyces cinnamonensis .
a nine - membered bis - lactone having methyl substituents at the 2 -  and 6 - positions ,  an n - hexyl substituent at the 8 - position ,  an acyloxy substituent at the 7 - position and an aroylamido substituent at the 3 - position .
a dicarboximide that is 4 -  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) piperidine - 2 , 6 - dione in which one of the hydrogens attached to the carbon  bearing the hydroxy group is replaced by a 3 , 5 - dimethyl - 2 - oxocyclohexyl group .
a pyranoindolizinoquinoline that is pyrano [ 3' , 4':6 , 7 ] indolizino [ 1 , 2 - b ] quinoline which is substituted by oxo groups at positions 3 and 14 ,  and by an ethyl group and a hydroxy group at position 4  ( the s enantiomer )  .
any aldehyde having an oxo substituent at the 2 - position .
a heteroglycan consisting of a mannan backbone with galactose side groups .
the d - enantiomer of isoleucine .
a trimethylxanthine in which the three methyl groups are located at positions 1 ,  3 ,  and 7 .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is benzimidazole in which the hydrogen at position 2 is replaced by an amino group .
acetaldehyde substituted at c - 2 by chlorine .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine bearing an indol - 3 - yl substituent at position 3 .
a diamminedichloroplatinum compound in which the two ammine ligands and two chloro ligands are oriented in a cis planar configuration around the central platinum ion .
a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the streptomyces genus of actinobacteria .
an optically active form of histidine having d - configuration .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
a glycosylglucose formed by an alpha -  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - linkage between d - galactose and d - glucose .
a chromium group element atom that has atomic number 24 .
a bornane monoterpenoid that is 1 , 7 , 7 - trimethylbicyclo [ 2 .2 .1 ] heptane substituted by a hydroxy group at position 2 .
an alpha - d - glucan in which the glucose units are connected by  ( 1 -  > 3 )  linkages .
an optically active form of asparagine having d - configuration .
a complex between iron ( iii )  and three hydroxamic acid groups ,  used for iron transport .
a member of the class of rotenones that consists of 1 , 2 , 12 , 12a - tetrahydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] furo [ 2 , 3 - h ] chromen - 6 ( 6ah )  - one substituted at position 2 by a prop - 1 - en - 2 - yl group and at positions 8 and 9 by methoxy groups  ( the 2r , 6as , 12as - isomer )  .
the d - enantiomer of leucine .
an aldohexose that is the c - 4 epimer of glucose .
a 2 - carbon sulfoxide in which the sulfur atom has two methyl substituents .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a carbamoyl substituent at position 4 .
an optically active form of tyrosine having d - configuration .
a phosphatidylglycerol composed of two molecules of phosphatidic acid covalently linked to a molecule of glycerol .
a 1 - ribosylimidazolecarboxamide in which the carboxamide group is situated at position 4 of the imidazole ring ,  which is further substituted at position 5 by an amino group .
a twelve - membered cyclodepsipeptide composed of three repeating d - alpha - hydroxyisovaleryl - d - valyl - l - lactoyl - l - valyl units joined in sequence .
a l - glutamyl ester that is the  alpha - methyl ester derivative of l - glutamic acid .
a  ( 9z )  - 12 - hydroxyoctadec - 9 - enoic acid in which the 12 - hydroxy group has r - configuration . .
a cinchona alkaloid consisting of cinchonine with the hydrogen at the 6 - position of the quinoline ring substituted by methoxy .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
a metal fluoride salt with a na (  +  )  counterion .
a ketohexose that is an isomer of glucose .
any member of the phosphoinositide family of compounds ,  of which seven occur naturally .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is heptane in which one of the hydrogens of a terminal methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
a c18 straight - chain saturated fatty acid component of many animal and vegetable lipids .
a c24 straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
a member of the class of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinones that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone which is substituted at position 2 by a methyl group .
any glycerophosphoinositol having one phosphatidyl group esterified to one of the hydroxy groups of inositol .
a bisphosphoglyceric acid that is glyceric acid carrying two phospho substituents at positions 2 and 3 .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
any sugar having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside that is inosine in which the hydroxy group at position 2' is replaced by a hydrogen .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine in which the alpha - is substituted by a 3 - guanidinopropyl group .
a pantothenate that is the conjugate base of  ( r )  - pantothenic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
an arsenate ion resulting from the removal of three protons from arsenic acid .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and fluorine atoms .
an organosulfur compound in which a thiol group ,   - sh ,  is attached to a carbon atom of any aliphatic or aromatic moiety .
an organic sodium salt that is the disodium salt of nitroprusside .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid amide derived from a fatty acid .
a polyketide antibiotic that is isolated from actinosynnema pretiosum and also exhibits antitumour activity .
an inoganic sodium salt with formula with formula naaso2 .
a mixture of antiviral nucleoside antibiotics produced by streptomyces lysosuperificus .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group of ferulic acid .
an inorganic anion that is the conjugate base of hydroxylamine ,  arising from deprotonation of the amino function .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of d - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the both the carboxy groups of l - glutamic acid .
an aspartate ( 1 -  )  that is the conjugate base of d - aspartic acid .
an aspartate ( 1 -  )  that is the  conjugate base of l - aspartic acid .
an aspartate ( 2 -  )  that is the conjugate base of  l - aspartate ( 1 -  )  .
an aspartate ( 2 -  )  that is the conjugate base of d - aspartate ( 1 -  )  .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of aspartic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion resulting from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxy groups of succinic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is the methyl ester of   [ 1 -  ( butylcarbamoyl )  - 1h - benzimidazol - 2 - yl ] carbamic acid .
an alkane that is propane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
a heme is any tetrapyrrolic chelate of iron .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine substituted at the alpha - position by a 2 - hydroxyethyl group .
the d - enantiomer of homoserine .
a  diether that is ethylene glycol in which the hydrogens of the hydroxy groups have been replaced by 2 -  [ bis ( carboxymethyl ) amino ] ethyl group respectively .
a compound comprising a benzene ring core carrying a carboxylic acid substituent .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a tricarboxylic acid that is propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - tricarboxylic acid bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 2 .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is butane in which one of the terminal methyl groups has been oxidised to a carboxy group .
a c6 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxy groups of succinic acid .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the z - isomer of but - 2 - enedioate ( 2 -  ) 
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is 4 - hydroxybenzoic acid substituted by a methoxy group at position 3 .
a c18 ,  long straight - chain monounsaturated fatty acid anion ;  and the conjugate base of oleic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
an oxo dicarboxylic acid that consists of glutaric acid bearing an oxo substituent at position 2 .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from selective deprotonation of the 1 - carboxy group of 2 - oxoglutaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxylic acid groups of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of glutaric acid .
a  bipyridine in which the two pyridine moieties are linked by a bond between positions c - 4 and c - 4' .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of valeric acid ;  present in ester form as component of many steroid - based pharmaceuticals .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of tetracosanoic acid  ( lignoceric acid )  ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic isolated from aspergillus spp .
a platinum coordination entity that is a commonly used chemothrepeutic drug for treatment of colorectal cancer .
the l - enantiomer of alaninate .
the l - enantiomer of alaninium .
the d - enantiomer of alaninate .
an alaninium that is the conjugate acid of d - alanine .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of alanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of alanine .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinium .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an optically active form of phenylalaninate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of phenylalaninium having l - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of phenylalaninate .
an optically active form of phenylalaninium having d - configuration .
an aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylalanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of phenylalanine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glycine ,  arising from protonation of the amino .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glycine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the l - enantiomer of histidinate ( 1 -  )  , 
the l - enantiomer of histidinate ( 2 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of histidinium ( 2 +  )  .
the l - enantiomer of histidinium ( 1 +  )  .
the d - enantiomer of histidinate ( 1 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of histidinate ( 2 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of histidinium ( 1 +  )  .
the d - enantiomer of histidinium ( 2 +  )  .
a pyridinemonocarboxylate that is the conjugate base of nicotinic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an optically active form of lysinate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of lysinium having l - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of lysinium ( 2 +  )  .
an optically active form of lysinate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of lysinium having d - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of lysinium ( 2 +  )  .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of lysine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of lysine ,  having two cationic amino groups and an anionic carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation obtained by protonation of both amino groups of lysine .
a metal chloride salt with a k (  +  )  counterion .
an acene that consists of four ortho - fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
the l - enantiomer of isoleucinate .
the l - enantiomer of isoleucinium .
the d - enantiomer of isoleucinate .
the d - enantiomer of isoleucinium .
the l - enantiomer of leucinate .
the l - enantiomer of leucinium .
the d - enantiomer of leucinate .
the d - enantiomer of leucinium .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of leucine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of leucine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
the l - enantiomer of  methioninate .
the l - enantiomer of methioninium .
the d - enantiomer of methioninate .
the d - enantiomer of methioninium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of methionine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate acid of methionine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an optically active form of asparaginate having l - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of asparagine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an optically active form of glutaminate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of glutaminium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glutamine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - arginine ;  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the l - enantiomer of argininium ( 1 +  )  .
the d - enantiomer of argininium ( 1 +  )  .
the l - enantiomer of tryptophanate .
the l - enantiomer of tryptophanium .
the d - enantiomer of tryptophanate .
the d - enantiomer of tryptophanium .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tryptophan ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tryptophan ,  arising from protonation of the alpha - amino group .
an optically active form of tyrosinate having l - configuration .
the l - enantiomer of tyrosinate ( 2 -  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of tyrosinate ( 1 -  )  having d - configuration .
the d - enantiomer of tyrosinate ( 2 -  )  .
an optically active form of tyrosinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tyrosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tyrosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
the cis - isomer of aconitic acid .
a dihydroxybenzoic acid that is 2 , 4 - dihydroxybenzoic acid in which the hydrogen at position 6 is replaced by a methyl group .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - threonine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the l - enantiomer of threoninium .
the d - enantiomer of threoninate .
the d - enantiomer of threoninium .
a serinate that is the conjugate base of l - serine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a serinium that is the conjugate acid of l - serine ,  obtained by protonation of the amino group .
the d - enantiomer of serinate .
the d - enantiomer of serinium .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of serine .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of serine .
the l - enantiomer of valinate .
the l - enantiomer of  valinium .
the d - enantiomer of valinate .
the d - enantiomer of valinium .
an optically active form of prolinate having l - configuration .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an optically active form of prolinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of proline ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of proline ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having one carbon - carbon double bond and the general formula cnh2n .
a straight - chain alkane carrying 18 carbon atoms .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
any cyclic ether in which the oxygen atom forms part of a 3 - membered ring .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a dinitrile that is methane substituted by two cyano groups .
a gluconic acid having d - configuration .
a bisphenol that is 4 , 4' - methanediyldiphenol in which the methylene hydrogens are replaced by two methyl groups .
a biochemical role played by any micronutrient that is an organic compound .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a derivative of two oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which two acyl groups are attached to the amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
a substance used to destroy rodent pests .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a substance administered to aid diagnosis of a disease .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a group derived from an arene by removal of a hydrogen atom from a ring carbon atom .
a serine zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - serine .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any monosaccharide containing an alcoholic hydroxy group esterified with phosphoric acid .
arylmethyl groups and derivatives formed by substitution: arcr2 -  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
a trionic acid that consists of propionic acid substituted at positions 2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of a proton from h2teo3
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an organic derivative of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the sufonate group ( s )  of any organosulfonic acid .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an aryl group .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
any member of class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
any compound containing an o - diphenol component .
any benzenediol in which the two hydroxy groups are meta to one another .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
any carboxylic acid having a sulfur substituent .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a compound having one atom as the only common member of two rings .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common .
acyclic and cyclic hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon double bonds ,  apart from the formal ones in aromatic compounds .
acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon double bond .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
an aliphatic compound having a carbocyclic ring structure which may be saturated or unsaturated ,  but may not be a benzenoid or other aromatic system .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position beta to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
the residue in a peptide that has an amino group that is free ,  or at least not acylated by another amino - acid residue ,  is called n - terminal .
any aldonic acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde group of an aldohexose to a carboxylic acid group .
a hexonic acid derivative that is formally obtained from gluconic acid .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
alkenols ;  the term refers specifically to vinylic alcohols ,  which have the structure hocr'=cr2 .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
an antibiotic isolated from various streptomyces species .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
any alcohol in which the alcoholic hydroxy group is attached to a carbon which is itself bonded to an aromatic ring .
an amino acid whose structure includes an aromatic ring .
any carboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is directly bonded to an aromatic ring .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of glyceric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a seven - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldoheptose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketoheptose )  .
a pentose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is 2 - aminobenzimidazole in which the primary amino group is substituted by a methoxycarbonyl group .
any aldopentose where the open - chain form has all the hydroxy groups on the same side in the fischer projection .
a heptose with a  ( potential )  ketone group at the 2 - position .
a member of the class of  phenols that is 4 - methylphenol substituted by tert - butyl groups at positions 2 and 6 .
a carbamate ester that is the isopropyl ester of 3 - chlorophenylcarbamic acid .
an indicator dye that is blue - violet at ph 3 .0 and red at ph 5 .0 .
an alkylbenzene that is benzene carrying an isopropyl group .
the dialdehyde that is the smallest possible and which consists of ethane having oxo groups on both carbons .
a carboxylic ester that is pravastatin that is lacking the allylic hydroxy group .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is benzimidalole which is substituted at position 2 by a  ( methoxycarbonyl ) amino group and at position 5 by a 2 - thienoyl group .
an organic cation that consists of 4 , 4' - bipyridine bearing two n - methyl substituents loctated at the 1 -  and 1' - positions .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of two protons from vanadic acid .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of vanadic acid where one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c10 terpene .
a c30 terpene .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
a depsipeptide in which the amino and hydroxy carboxylic acid residues are connected in a ring .
a substance which is structurally similar to a metabolite but which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
a small molecule which increases  ( activator )  or decreases  ( inhibitor )  the activity of an  ( allosteric )  enzyme by binding to the enzyme at the regulatory site  ( which is different from the substrate - binding catalytic site )  .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amnio group of serine .
a serine zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of d - serine .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an onium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an sulfonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
any neutral molecule having charge - separated forms with a quaternary ammonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
cations of structure r2c=n (  +  ) r2 .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
any drug that enhances the activity of the central nervous system .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
a sterol in which the hydroxy group at position 3 has beta -  configuration .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an imide in which the two acyl substituents on nitrogen are carboacyl groups .
an amide of a sulfonic acid rs ( =o ) 2nr'2 .
compounds having the structure rc ( =nr ) nr2 .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of aspartic acid .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
any glucoside in which the glycoside group is derived from d - glucose .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
substance intended to kill parasitic worms  ( helminths )  .
a substance used in the treatment or control of nematode infestations .
antidepressants are mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a traditional grouping of drugs said to have a soothing or calming effect on mood ,  thought or behaviour .
antipsychotic drugs are agents that control agitated psychotic behaviour ,  alleviate acute psychotic states ,  reduce psychotic symptoms ,  and exert a quieting effect .
antimanic drugs are agents used to treat bipolar disorders or mania associated with other affective disorders .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
compounds of the general formula rooc - ch=ch - coor' where r and r' are organyl groups
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
compounds of structure rssr in which r and r' are organic groups .
any fluoroarene that is a benzene or a substituted benzene carrying at least one fluoro group .
an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function .
an addition compound contains two or more simpler compounds that can be packed in a definite ratio into a crystal .
an addition compound that contains water in weak chemical combination with another compound .
an agent that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
a drug which lowers the blood glucose level .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
a five - membered monocyclic heteroarene comprising one nh and four ch units which forms the parent compound of the pyrrole group of compounds .
that one of the three tautomers of pyrrole which has the double bonds at positions 1 and 4 .
that one of the three tautomers of pyrrole which has the double bonds at positions 1 and 3 .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
a heterobicyclic aromatic organic compound comprising a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring ;  the parent compound of the purines .
the 1h - tautomer of purine .
the 3h - tautomer of purine .
the 9h - tautomer of purine .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
an inorganic sodium salt of formula na3vo4 containing the tetrahedral vo4 ( 3 -  ) 
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor which interferes with the activity of the enzyme protein tyrosine phosphatases  ( ptps )  ,  ec 3 .1 .3 .48 ,  involved in the removal of phosphate groups from phosphorylated tyrosine residues on proteins .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a food additive that is used to added improve the taste or odour of a food .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
any ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that inhibits hmg - coa reductases .
a group of two - ring heterocyclic compounds consisting of a benzene ring fused to an azepine ring .
a substance used to treat hyperlipidemia  ( an excess of lipids in the blood )  .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains four n atoms and one c atom .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
any dicarboxylic acid anion that is a monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of only one of the carboxy groups of the dicarboxylic acid .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos  \ "foreign \ " ;  bios  \ "life \ " )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
an acetyl - l - lysine where the acetyl group is located at the n ( 2 )  - posiiton .
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
a compound having a nitro group ,   - no2  ( free valence on nitrogen )  ,  which may be attached to carbon ,  nitrogen  ( as in nitramines )  ,  or oxygen  ( as in nitrates )  ,  among other elements  ( in the absence of specification ,  c - nitro compounds are usually implied )  .
a nitro compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to a carbon atom .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains three n atoms and two c atoms .
any member of the group of lipids containing a common glycerol backbone to which at least one fatty acid - derived group is attached .
an oxoacid containing four carboxy groups .
a carboxylic ester in which the carboxylic acid component can be any fatty acid .
any anion of a tricarboxylic acid  formed by deprotonation of at least one carboxy group .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
sphinganine ,  its homologs and stereoisomers ,  and the hydroxy and unsaturated derivatives of these compounds .
an azole based on a five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton containing one n and one o atom .
any member of the class of 1 , 4 - benzoquinones substituted by a polyprenyl - derived side - chain .
compounds having the nitroso group ,   - no ,  attached to carbon ,  or to another element ,  most commonly nitrogen or oxygen .
a tricarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of citric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of one of the three carboxy groups .
a tricarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of two of the three carboxy groups of citric acid .
an agent useful in the treatment or prevention of coccidiosis in man or animals .
any fatty acid in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents ;  a common component in animal and bacterial lipids .
any antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
a substance used to lower plasma cholesterol levels .
a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
h3as=o and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
an organosulfur compound having the structure rs ( =o ) 2r  ( r = / = h )  .
a diamminedichloroplatinum compound in which the two ammine ligands and two chloro ligands are oriented in a trans planar configuration around the central platinum ion .
a compound or agent that combines with lipoxygenase and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of the icosanoid products hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid and various leukotrienes .
any monocarboxylic acid which also contains a separate  ( alcoholic or phenolic )  hydroxy substituent .
any monocarboxylic acid having at least one additional oxo functional group .
lambda ( 5 )  - phosphane and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
any carboxylic acid anion containing at least one oxo group .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of glutaric acid .
a steroid ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with the 3 - hydroxy group of a sterol .
a monosubstitution product of hydrogen peroxide ,  hooh .
monosubstitution products of hydrogen peroxide hooh ,  having the skeleton rooh ,  in which r is any organyl group .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
any  hydroxy monocarboxylic acid carrying at least two hydroxy groups .
any amino acid carrying two amino groups .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two or more atoms in common .
an octadecenoic acid with a double bond at c - 9 .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of virus diseases .
a drug used to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
esters of benzoic acid or substituted benzoic acids .
any monocarboxylic acid anion carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna ,  and any derivatives thereof .
a hydroxybenzoate that is the  conjugate base of dihydroxybenzoic acid .
an alicyclic ketone in which the carbocyclic ring structure forms part of a terpene skeleton .
a cyclic ketone in which the carbocyclic ring structure which may be saturated or unsaturated ,  but may not be a benzenoid or other aromatic system .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
any dicarboxylic acid carrying one or more oxo groups .
the alpha - anomer of lactose .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
a monoester of a dicarboxylic acid .
the glycerol phosphate ester of a phosphocholine .
any glycerophospholipid having the polar alcohol inositol esterified to the phosphate group at the sn - 3 position of the glycerol backbone .
a drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by protozoal organisms belonging to the suborder trypanosomatida .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
an azaarene that is the 9 - aza derivative of phenanthrene .
a substituted phenothiazine in which the ring nitrogen at position 10 is attached to c - 3 of an n , n - dimethylpropanamine moiety .
a coordination entity in which the central atom to which the ligands are attached comes from groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  or 18 of the periodic table .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
any terpenoid derived from a triterpene .
a mancude organic heterobicyclic parent that is a heterocyclic organic compound comprising fused benzene and imidazole rings .
any one of eight organic heterobicyclic compounds that have a naphthalene skeleton in which two of the carbons are replaced by nitrogens .
a naphthyridine in which the nitrogens are situated at positions 1 and 8 .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
any compound having phosphocholine as part of its structure .
a cyclic monoterpene ketone that is bornane bearing an oxo substituent at position 2 .
a bicyclic compound in which all the ring atoms are carbon .
a salt formally resulting from the reaction of hydrochloric acid with an organic base .
two or more cyclic systems  ( single rings or fused systems )  which are directly joined to each other by double or single bonds are named ring assemblies when the number of such direct ring junctions is one less than the number of cyclic systems involved .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid in which the 3 - hydroxy substituent is in the  beta - position .
a radical that carries an electric charge .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
a nucleotide is a nucleoside phosphate resulting from the condensation of the 3 or 5 hydroxy group of a nucleoside with phosphoric acid .
a methylbutyric acid comprising a butyric acid core carrying a 2 - methyl substituent .
a compound containing at least one carbon - bromine bond .
an organoiodine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - iodine bond .
an organofluorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - fluorine bond .
any ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of phosphoprotein phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .16 )  .
a hydrogen butenedioate that is the  conjugate base of maleic acid .
a polysaccharide composed of glucose residues .
glycans composed of a single type of monosaccharide residue .
a polyol that contains 6 hydroxy groups .
a substance administered to enhance contrast in images of the inside of the body obtained using x - rays ,  gamma - rays ,  sound waves ,  radio waves  ( mri )  ,  or radioactive particles in order to diagnose disease .
any ether in which the oxygen atom forms part of a ring .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a phosphatidylinositol monophosphate carrying the phosphate group at the 4 - position .
derivatives of diazene with the general structure r - n=n - r' .
an acyl - coa that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with the carboxy group of any fatty acid .
an acyl - coa that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with one of the carboxy groups of any alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate ( 4 -  )  obtained by deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of dttp ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
a lactone having a five - membered lactone ring .
compounds having two beta - haloalkyl groups bound to a nitrogen atom ,  as in  ( x - ch2 - ch2 ) 2nr .
an alkene that is octadecane containing one double bond at unspecified position .
the pyranose form of galactose .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
the l - enantiomer of glucopyranose .
a l - glucopyranose with a beta - configuration at the anomeric position .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1h - imidazole in which the hydrogen attached to a nitrogen is replaced by a monochlorotrityl group .
a compound which inhibits or antagonizes the biosynthesis or actions of proteases  ( endopeptidases )  .
a beta - d - glucan in which the glucose units are connected by  ( 1 -  > 3 )  linkages .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinases .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinase c  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .13 )  .
any glycerolipid having a phosphate group ester - linked to a terminal carbon of the glycerol backbone .
a straight chain alkane composed of 4 carbon atoms .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
an agent that binds to but does not activate adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists .
an agent that binds to but does not activate alpha - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous alpha - adrenergic agonists .
the 10h - tautomer of phenothiazine .
a spiro compound in which at least one of the cyclic components is an oxygen heterocyle .
any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects the life cycle of an adrenergic transmitter .
any of a class of cyclic chemical compounds that contain an unsaturated six - membered ring with one ring oxygen atom and an oxo substituent .
any aminopurine that has amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 ,  and their substituted derivatives .
a drug used in the treatment of malaria .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
a compound composed of two or more pyrrole units .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
compounds based on a triazine skeleton .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
an  azetidinecarboxylic acid that is azetidine substituted by a carboxy group at position 2 .
any aldehyde with two aldehyde groups .
cyclic hemiacetals formed by intramolecular addition of a hydroxy group to an aldehydic or ketonic carbonyl group .
a ligand with two or more separate binding sites that can bind to a single metallic central atom ,  forming a chelate .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid .
a hydroxypyridine carrying a single hydroxy substituent .
any member of the class of  pyridines carrying a hydroxymethyl substituent at unspecified position .
any inhibitor of a dna polymerase .
any of a class of heterocyclic amines having a saturated five - membered ring .
an alpha - amino acid that is butanoic acid substituted by an amino group at position 2 and a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a branched chain amino acid that consists of 3 - methylpentanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
the simplest boronic acid ,  consisting of borane with two of the hydrogens substituted by hydroxy groups .
compounds having the structure rb ( oh ) 2 .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a member of the class of  pyrimidines that is pyrimidine substituted by at least one amino group and its derivatives .
a hexenoic acid with the double bond at position 4 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from deprotonation of the carboxy group of n - acetyl - d - glucosaminic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any member of the class of indolones whose structure is based on an oxindole  ( 2 - indolone )  skeleton .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme acetylcholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .7 )  ,  which helps breaking down of acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid .
an ec 1 .9 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytochrome c oxidase  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .1 )  .
a respiratory - chain inhibitor that interferes with the action of the the enzyme nadh:ubiquinone reductase  ( h (  +  )  - translocating )  ,  ec 1 .6 .5 .3 .
compounds having the structure r2c=nnr2 ,  formally derived from aldehydes or ketones by replacing =o by =nnh2  ( or substituted analogues )  .
any member of the class of fluorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring carrying two fluorine atoms .
a difluorobenzene carrying fluoro groups at positions 1 and 3 .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
an agent that inhibits sodium influx through cell membranes .
any protein kinase inhibitor that interferes with the action of tyrosine kinase .
a methyl - branched fatty acid comprising a butyric acid core carrying a single methyl substituent .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 2 - methylbutanoic acid .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
a trianion containing at least one carboxy group .
any polyamine that contained three amino groups .
a compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to a nitrogen atom .
any compound containing morpholine as part of its structure .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
a member of the class of benzofurans consisting of a 1 - benzofuran skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
any organic heterobicyclic compound consisting of a pyridine ring ortho - fused at any position to a pyrimidine ring .
an alkaloid containing an indole skeleton .
any alkylbenzene that is benzene substituted with one or more methyl groups .
a  monocyclic arene that is benzene substituted with one or more alkyl groups .
any magnesium ion that is positively charged .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
an n - nitro compound that is guanidine in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a nitro group .
any chemical substance that inhibits the life - cycle of an organism .
any compound with a 1 , 2 , 4 - triazine skeleton ,  in which nitrogen atoms replace carbon at positions 1 ,  2 and 4 of the core benzene ring structure .
any saturated fatty acid with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
a role played by a fluorescent molecular entity used to study the microscopic environment by fluorescence spectroscopy .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
any azaalkane in which two or more carbons in the chain are replaced by nitrogen .
a beta - diketone that is methane in which two of the hydrogens are substituted by feruloyl groups .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid that comprises of a propyl substituent on a pentanoic acid stem .
a member of the class of triazoles that is 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole substituted by an amino group at position 3 .
a member of the class of 2 , 6 - diaminopurines that is 9h - purine in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 6 are replaced by amino groups .
a fatty acid ester that is mevastatin carrying an additional methyl group on the carbobicyclic skeleton .
a cyclic nonribosomal peptide of eleven amino acids ;  an immunosuppressant drug widely used in post - allogeneic organ transplant to reduce the activity of the patient's immune system ,  and therefore the risk of organ rejection .
l - canavanine in zwitterionic form .
the 1h - tautomer of benzimidazole .
a galactopyranose having d - configuration .
a glucopyranose having d - configuration .
an organic chloride salt that is the monochloride salt of crystal violet cation .
a straight - chain alkane with 10 carbon atoms .
a hexose that has d - configuration at position 5 .
an anthracycline cation resulting from the protonation of the amino group of 4' - epidoxorubicin .
the fluorescent compound widely used in experimental cell biology and biochemistry to reveal double - stranded dna and rna .
an aminoglycoside antibiotic produced by micromonospora rhodorangea .
an aminocarboxamidine ,  the parent compound of the guanidines .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a organic heterooctacyclic compound that is a potent inhibitor of protein kinase c and is isolated from nocardiopsis sp k - 252a
a primary aliphatic amine that is butane substituted by an amino group at position 1 .
a nucleotide in which the ribose moiety has one or more of its hydroxy groups substituted by hydrogen .
a member of the class of ureas that is urea in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a member of the class of  maleimides that is the n - ethyl derivative of maleimide .
a polycyclic ether that is produced by several species of dinoflagellates ,  and is known to accumulate in both marine sponges and shellfish .
the l - enantiomer of ornithinium ( 2 +  )  .
a monocarboxylic acid that is acrylic acid substituted by a phosphonooxy group at position 2 .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 2 - methylbutanoic acid .
a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate ( 3 -  )  arising from deprotonation of all three diphosphate oh groups of adenosine 5' - diphosphate  ( adp )  ;  major species present at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid diamide comprising suberic  ( octanedioic )  acid coupled to aniline and  hydroxylamine .
a member of the class of phenothiazines that is  phenothiazine having a trifluoromethyl subsitituent at the 2 - position and a 3 -  ( 4 - methylpiperazin - 1 - yl ) propyl group at the n - 10 position .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles carrying a 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl substituent at position 2 .
the simplest quaternary ammonium cation ,  comprising a central nitrogen linked to four methyl groups .
a member of the class of  triazoles that is propan - 2 - ol substituted at position 1 and 3 by 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl groups and at position 2 by a 2 , 4 - difluorophenyl group .
an amino aldehyde that is l - tyrosine in which the carboxy group has undergone formal redution to give the corrresponding aldehyde
a ubiquinone having a side chain of 10 isoprenoid units .
a nucleobase analogue that is uracil in which the hydrogen at position 5 is replaced by fluorine .
a vanadium oxoanion that is a trianion with formula vo4 in which the vanadium is in the  + 5 oxidation state and is attached to four oxygen atoms .
a compound that contains two ketone functionalities .
any  carboxylic ester derivative of an amino acid .
any molecule that contains two amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
any ether that contains more than one ether linkage .
a polyether in which the number of ether linkages is 2 .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
the amino acid ester derivative obtained the formal condensation of an alpha - amino acid with an alcohol .
a member of the class of  azetidines that is azetidine substituted by at least one carboxy group at unspecified position .
a compound consisting of a peptide with attached lipid .
a pantothenic acid having r - configuration .
a polar amino acid zwitterion of l - ornithine .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - ornithine .
any organic heteromonocyclic compoundthat is oxane or its substituted derivatives .
an aminodiol that is octadecane bearing two hydroxy substituents at positions 1 and 3 as well as an amino substituent at position 2 .
a ribose in which the chiral carbon atom furthest away from the aldehyde group  ( c4' )  has the same configuration as in l - glyceraldehyde .
a cyclic ribose having a 5 - membered tetrahydrofuran ring ;  the predominant  ( c3' - endo )  form of the two cyclic structures  ( the other is the  \ "c2' - endo \ " form ,  having a 6 - membered ring )  adopted by ribose in aqueous solution .
an ribofuranose having l - configuration .
a d - ribofuranose in which the anomeric centre has beta - configuration .
a ribofuranose having d - configuration .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and bromine atoms .
a semisynthetic cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic which exerts its effect by inhibiting the synthesis of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan ,  an integral component of the fungal cell wall .
a cis - 1 - acetyl - 4 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl ) piperazine which dioxolane moiety has  ( 2s , 4r )  - configuration .
a racemate consisting of equimolar amounts of  ( 2r , 4s )  -  and  ( 2s , 4r )  - ketoconazole .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
any ester resulting from the condensation of one or more of the hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
a chemical compound that can be excited by light of a specific wavelength and subsequently transfer energy to a chosen reactant .
a phospho sugar that is formally obtained from a hexose .
an anthracycline that is the 4' - epi - isomer of doxorubicin .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an alkyl group .
an alkanethiol is a compound in which a sulfanyl group ,   - sh ,  is attached to an alkyl group .
any oligopeptide that consists of three amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
an amine rnr'r'' where r has a double bond adjacent to the amine nitrogen .
a compound ,  usually an anti - bacterial agent or a toxin ,  which inhibits the synthesis of a protein .
any molecule that contains four amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
a metabolite from penicillium brefeldianum that exhibits a wide range of antibiotic activity .
a nitrogen oxoacid of formula hno3 in which the nitrogen atom is bonded to a hydroxy group and by equivalent bonds to the remaining two oxygen atoms .
anthracyclines are polyketides that have a tetrahydronaphthacenedione ring structure attached by a glycosidic linkage to the amino sugar daunosamine .
a substance used locally on humans and other animals to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity  ( cf .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
a l - histidine derivative that is n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - trimethyl - l - histidine in which the hydrogen at position 2 on the imdazole ring is replaced by a mercapto group .
a cis - 1 - acetyl - 4 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl ) piperazine which dioxolane moiety has  ( 2r , 4s )  - configuration .
a dioxolane that is 1 , 3 - dioxolane which is substituted at positions 2 ,  2 ,  and 4 by imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ,  2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ,  and  [ para -  ( 4 - acetylpiperazin - 1 - yl ) phenoxy ] methyl groups ,  respectively .
compounds of structure rssr' .
an exogenous or endogenous compound which inhibits serine endopeptidases .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
a solvent with a comparatively high relative permittivity  ( or dielectric constant )  ,  greater than ca .
solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  acceptor .
self - ionizing solvent possessing both characteristics of bronsted acids and bases .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
an agent and endogenous substances that antagonize or inhibit the development of new blood vessels .
a carboximidic acid that is  formic acid in which the carbonyl oxygen is replaced by an imino group .
any drug that acts on an alpha - adrenergic receptor .
esters or salts of methanesulfonic acid .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of aldehyde reductase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .21 )  .
a drug used for its effects on dopamine receptors ,  on the life cycle of dopamine ,  or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons .
a drug that binds to but does not activate dopamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of dopamine or exogenous agonists .
a role played by a substance that can react readily with ,  and thereby eliminate ,  radicals .
an arsenate ion resulting from the removal of two protons from arsenic acid .
an arsenate ion resulting from the removal of one proton from arsenic acid .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
the all - trans - isomer of geranylgeranyl diphosphate .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
a drug that binds to but does not activate muscarinic cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous acetylcholine or exogenous agonists .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains a n atom and one s atom .
any of several wide - spectrum macrolide antibiotics obtained from actinomycete saccharopolyspora erythraea  ( formerly known as streptomyces erythraeus )  .
compounds containing single  - n=n -  group .
a chemical substance which inhibits the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
the  ( r )  - oxido diastereomer of l - methionine s - oxide .
the s - oxide derivative of methionine .
an aldehyde in which a formyl group is located on a heteroarene .
a drug used to treat asthma .
a glycerophosphocholine compound having o - acyl substituents at both the 1 -  and 2 - positions of the glycerol .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that inhibits h (  +  )  / k (  +  )  - exchanging atpase ,  ec 3 .6 .3 .10 .
one of various classes of drugs with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate peptic ulcer or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract .
an organic compound that has a tetrahydronaphthacenedione ring structure attached by a glycosidic linkage to the amino sugar daunosamine and which exhibits antibiotic activity .
a chemical substance that prevents or reduces the probability of conception .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion that is the trianion of 2' - deoxyadenosine 5' - triphosphate ,  arising from deprotonation of three of the four triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a macrolide consisting of a 14 - membered bicyclic lactone attached to the rare 2 - thiazolidinone moiety .
a cysteine derivative that is the s -  ( 2 - aminoethyl )  analogue of l - cysteine ;  reported to have cytotoxic effects .
an organosulfonic acid comprising stilbene having 4 - anilino - 6 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ]  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl}amino groups at the 4 and 4' - positions and sulfo groups at the 2 -  and 2' - positions .
an arenesulfonate arising from deprotonation of the sulfo groups of 4 , 4' - bis ( {4 - anilino - 6 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ]  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl}amino ) stilbene - 2 , 2' - disulfonic acid .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a glutathione derivative that is glutathione in which the hydrogen attached to the sulfur has been replaced by sulfur has been replaced by a nitroso group .
an agent that binds to and activates excitatory amino acid receptors .
any hormone that is responsible for controlling sexual characteristics and reproductive function .
a hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of female sex characteristics in mammals by binding to oestrogen receptors .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fenpropimorph .
a 4 -  [ 3 -  ( 4 - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl ]  - 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the methyl substituents on the morpholine ring are in a cis relationship to each other and in which the remaining stereocentre has s configuration .
a 4 -  [ 3 -  ( 4 - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl ]  - 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the methyl substituents on the morpholine ring are in a cis relationship to each other and in which the remaining stereocentre has r configuration .
a member of the class of morpholines that is 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a 3 -  ( p - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl group .
a nitroso compound that is triazane in which the the nitrogen at position 1 is substituted by two 2 - aminoethyl groups ,  that at position 2 is substituted by a hydroxy group ,  and that at position 3 is substituted by an oxo group .
a drug that softens ,  separates ,  and causes desquamation of the cornified epithelium or horny layer of skin .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the activity of cytochrome p450 involved in catalysis of organic substances .
any pathway inhibitor that inhibits the synthesis of fatty acids .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a phosphoric diester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .4 .
any protective agent counteracting or neutralizing the action of poisons .
drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits the bacterial enzymes of the dna topoisomerases ,  type i class  ( ec 5 .99 .1 .2 )  that catalyze atp - independent breakage of one of the two strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strand through the break ,  and rejoining of the broken strand .
an organic heterotetracyclic compound that has a furonaphthodioxole skeleton bearing a 3 , 4 , 5 - trimethoxyphenyl substituent .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
an ec 1 .6 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on nadh or nadph with a quinone or similar as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nad ( p ) h dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ,  ec 1 .6 .5 .2 .
a role played by a molecular entity used to study the microscopic environment .
a drug or agent which antagonizes or impairs any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation ,  whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense - granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin - thromboxane system .
a primary amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an aryl group .
any compound containing the thiocarbonyl group ,  c=s .
substance that sweeten food ,  beverages ,  medications ,  etc .
an agent that inhibits cell membrane glycoproteins that are selectively permeable to potassium ions .
compounds containing a bipyridine group .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of the oh function of a phenol compound .
a phenolate anion that is the conjugate base of phenol obtained by deprotonation of the oh group .
an agent ,  with unique chemical structure and biochemical requirements ,  which generates nitric oxide .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
an agent that inhibits bone resorption and / or favor bone mineralization and bone regeneration .
an ec 1 .5 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of dihydrofolate reductase  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .3 )  .
a reagent with two reactive groups ,  usually at opposite ends of the molecule ,  that are capable of reacting with and thereby forming bridges between macromolecules ,  principally side chains of amino acids in proteins ,  allowing the locations of naturally reactive areas within the proteins to be identified .
a substance used either in the prevention or facilitation of pregnancy .
a chemical substance that interrupts pregnancy after implantation .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
a substance that possess antiestrogenic actions but can also produce estrogenic effects as well .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolysing )  ,  ec 5 .99 .1 .3  ( also known as topoisomerase ii and as dna gyrase )  ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
a polyprenylbenzoquinone that is 2 - decaprenyl - 1 , 4 - benzoquinone carrying additional methyl and methoxy substituents at positions 3 and 6 respectively .
an antagonist at the estrogen receptor .
a compound which inhibits or antagonises the biosynthesis or actions of estrogens .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role played by a chemical compound  in biological systems with adverse consequences in embryo developments ,  leading to birth defects ,  embryo death or altered development ,  growth retardation and functional defect .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
a role played by a chemical compound exihibiting itself through the ability to induce damage to the liver in animals .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
an inhibitor of phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase ,  ec 2 .7 .1 .137 ,  a family of related enzymes capable of phosphorylating the 3 position hydroxy group of the inositol ring of a phosphatidylinositol .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of lipid kinases .
a drug used to prevent nausea or vomiting .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of non - specific serine / threonine protein kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .1 )  ,  a kinase enzyme involved in phosphorylation of hydroxy group of serine or threonine .
an agent that modulates the physiologic angiogenesis process .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a cyclic compound containing nine or more atoms as part of the cyclic system .
a dopaminergic agent that blocks the transport of dopamine into axon terminals or into storage vesicles within terminals .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
a compound in which an anionic site y (  -  )  is attached directly to a heteroatom x (  +  )   ( usually nitrogen ,  phosphorus or sulfur )  carrying a formal positive charge .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
a compound where a formally positive phosphorus atom is bound to a formally negative carbon atom .
compounds having the structure r3p (  +  )  - c (  -  ) r2  <  -  >  r3p=cr2 ,  where the phosphorus atom is bonded to four separate atoms .
a fluorescent dye used to stain biological specimens .
a member of the class of phenothiazines that is 10h - phenothiazine having a trifluoromethyl subsitituent at the 2 - position and a 3 -  [ 4 -  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) piperazin - 1 - yl ] propyl group at the n - 10 position .
any  dibenzopyridine based on the skeleton of phenanthridine and its substituted derivatives thereof .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement and their substitution derivatives .
compounds containing a tetracene skeleton .
compounds of general formula rr'nc ( =s ) nr''r''' .
a compound of general formula rc ( =o ) sr' .
quinones containing an acene fused ring system .
a dinitrile is a compound containing two nitrile groups .
an alkaloid based on a cinchonan skeleton .
a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the amino group of an amino acid .
compounds containing a biotin  ( 5 -  [  ( 3as , 4s , 6ar )  - 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazol - 4 - yl ] pentanoic acid )  skeleton .
any aromatic ether that consists of a benzene skeleton substituted with one or more methoxy groups .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated carboxylic ester of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) or ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the ester c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a carboxylic ester of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) or ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) or ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ester c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a monocarboxylic amide of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) nr ( 4 ) r ( 5 )   or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) nr ( 2 ) r ( 3 )  in which the amide c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated carboxylic acid amide of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) nr ( 4 ) r ( 5 )  in which the amide c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone containing a halo group .
a haloketone in which the halogen and oxo substituents are on adjacent carbon atoms .
a ketone containing a chloro substituent .
a chloroketone in which the chlorine and oxo substituents are on adjacent carbon atoms .
a ketone containing a bromo substituent .
a bromoketone in which the bromine and oxo substituents are on adjacent carbon atoms .
a compound containing both ketone and nitrile functionalities .
a ketonitrile where the ketone and nitrile functionalities are on adjacent atoms .
compounds based upon an indolo [ 2 , 3 - a ] carbazole skeleton .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of ethanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
an ortho - fused compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one heteroatom .
a compound with the general formula r2c=o  ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group .
an oxyketone with the general formula r2c ( =o )   ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group and the oxy and carbonyl groups are bonded to the same carbon atom .
a leptomycin having a  ( 2e , 10e , 12e , 16z , 18e )  - double bond configuration as well as an ethyl substituent at position 17 .
a complex ,  very long chain ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid whose core structure comprises 8 - oxononadeca - 2 , 10 , 12 , 16 , 18 - pentaenoic acid having methyl substituents at positions 3 ,  5 ,  7 ,  9 ,  11 and 15 and a 3 , 6 - dihydropyran - 6 - one - 2 - yl group at position 19 .
a member of the class of butanediols that is butane in which two of the hydrogens have been replaced by hydroxy groups .
l - phenylalaninamide substituted at the amide nitrogen by a 1 -  ( dihydroxyboranyl )  - 3 - methylbutyl group and at n ( alpha )  by a pyrazin - 2 - ylcarbonyl group .
a drug that blocks the action of proteasomes ,  cellular complexes that break down proteins .
an organic group that consists of a closed ring .
an organic heterotricyclic compound that is a mycotoxin produced by helminthosporium and other moulds which is cell permeable and a potent inhibitor of actin polymerisation and dna synthesis .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
a dolichyl diphosphooligosaccharide compound consisting of a branched tetradecasaccharide attached to the dolichyl chain via a diphosphate linkage .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of lysine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of lysine by a heteroatom .
an antagonist at the a2a receptor .
the bromide salt of 3 -  ( 4 , 5 - dimethylthiazol - 2 - yl )  - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium .
an organic cation that is tetrazolium substituted with a dimethylthiazolyl group and two phenyl groups .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c double bond .
a 1 , 2 , 4 - triazine compound having oxo - substituents at the 3 -  and 5 - positions .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of imp dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .205 )  ,  so blocking de novo biosynthesis of purine nucleotides .
a dicarboximide that is piperidine which is substituted by oxo groups at positions 2 and 6 .
compounds containing a cyclic dicarboximide skeleton in which the two carboacyl groups on nitrogen together with the nitrogen itself form a 1h - pyrrole - 2 , 5 - dione structure .
an antifungal macrolactone antibiotic ,  obtained from diheterospora chlamydosporia and chaetomium chiversii that inhibits protein tyrosine kinase and heat shock protein 90  ( hsp90 )  .
a compound having the general formula rr'c ( oh ) or''  ( r'' = / = h )  .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
a papulacandin that is papulacandin a in which the  ( 2e , 4e )  - deca - 2 , 4 - dienoyl chain at the o -  ( 6' )  position is replaced by a  ( 2e , 4z , 6e )  - 8 - hydroxydeca - 2 , 4 , 6 - trienoyl chain .
any oligosaccharide derivative which typically contains unsubstituted terminal mannose sugars with between five and nine mannose residues attached to the chitobiose  [  ( glcnac ) 2 ]  core .
any one of a family of large lipopeptides that are inhibitors of the enzyme 1 , 3 - beta - glucan synthase ,  thus damaging fungal cell walls .
tetraanion of coenzyme a .
an acyl - coa ( 4 -  )  that is the tetraanion of acetyl - coa ,  arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of glycine .
an acyl - coa oxoanion that is the pentaanion of glutaryl - coa arising from deprotonation of phosphate ,  diphosphate and carboxylic acid functions .
pentaanion of malonyl - coa arising from deprotonation of phosphate ,  diphosphate and carboxylic acid functions .
zwitterionic form of d - alanine .
zwitterionic form of l - leucine .
zwitterionic form of l - homoserine .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the dianion of sedoheptulose 7 - phosphate arising from deprotonation of both oh groups from the phosphate .
conjugate acid of staurosporine .
trianion of geranylgeranyl diphosphate arising from deprotonation of the three acidic oh groups of the diphosphate .
trianion of orotidine 5' - phosphate arising from deprotonation of carboxylic acid and phosphate functions .
a fatty acid anion with a chain length of c13 to c22 .
the conjugate base of a dolichyl diphosphooligosaccharide .
conjugate base of biotin arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of l - histidine having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated alpha - amino group .
a primary aliphatic ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of ethanolamine arising from protonation of the primary amino function .
an amino acid zwitterion of n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - dimethyl - l - histidine having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
the zwitterion of a phosphatidylethanolamine compound formed by proton transfer from the phosphate to the primary amino group .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained via global deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups of 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 3 , 4 - bisphosphate .
the conjugate acid of d - ornithine having an anionic carboxy group and both amino groups protonated ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of l - histidinol arising from protonation of the primary amino function ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
dianion of udp - n - acetyl - alpha - d - glucosamine arising from deprotonation of both free diphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of d - tryptophan having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated alpha - amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion that is a trianion of 2' - deoxycytidine 5' - triphosphate ,  arising from deprotonation of three of the four triphosphate oh groups .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - proline in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an ionic phospholipid that is a dianion of a phosphatidic acid arising from deprotonation of both phosphate oh groups .
zwitterionic form of l - citrulline having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - threonine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of pyridoxamine arising from selective protonation of the primary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - valine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion that is a trianion of dgtp arising from partial deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups .
a cationic sphingoid obtained by protonation of the amino group of sphinganine .
an ammonium ion that is the trication of spermidine ,  formed by protonation at all three nitrogens .
the heptaanion of a 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - methionine having a anionic carboxy group and a cationic amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine arising from migration of a proton from the carboxy group to the alpha - amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a pyrimidine nucleoside 5' - monophosphate ( 2 -  )  that results from the removal of two protons from the phosphate group of ump .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 5' - phosphate .
the ammonium betaine of a 2 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of a 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - tryptophan ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a peptide anion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups and protonation of the glutamyl amino group of glutathione ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - threonine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of nucleoside diiphosphate arising from deprotonation of all three free oh groups of the diphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of d - methionine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of beta - alanine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ammonium ion that is the trication of hygromycin b arising from protonation of the three amino groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - alanine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - phenylalanine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
zwitterionic form of d - glutamine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of a primary aliphatic amine .
pentaanion of 5 - o - phosphono - alpha - d - ribofuranosyl diphosphate arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the dianion of a nucleoside monophosphate: major species at ph 7 .3 .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - isoleucine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of l - asparagine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion of homocysteine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate ( 3 -  )  arising from deprotonation of the three triphosphate oh groups of cytidine 5' - diphosphate  ( cdp )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - phenylalanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trianion of nucleoside triphosphate arising from deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
tetraanion of p ( 1 )  , p ( 4 )  - bis ( 5' - adenosyl )  tetraphosphate arising from deprotonation of the tetraphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of 3' , 5' - cyclic amp arising from deprotonation of the free phosphate oh group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the ammonium betaine of a 1 - o - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid - based antibiotic derived from certain thermophilic fungi ;  acts as a potent inhibitor of serine palmitoyltransferase ,  the first step in sphingosine biosynthesis .
a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate ( 3 -  )  arising from deprotonation of the diphosphate oh groups of uridine 5' - diphosphate  ( udp )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a doubly - charged peptide anion arising from deprotonation of the four carboxy groups and protonation of the two amino groups of glutathione disulfide ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - tyrosine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an acyl - coa oxoanion arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups of any acyl - coa ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - glutamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion arising from deprotonation of the diphosphate oh groups of thymidine 5' - diphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion obtained from thymidine 5' - triphosphate by deprotonation of three of the four free triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
dianion of alpha , alpha - trehalose 6 - phosphate .
the conjugate base of a phosphatidyl - l - serine compound .
a nucleotide - sugar oxoanion that is the dianion of udp - d - galactose .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the tetraanionic form of saicar .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of pyridoxamine 5' - phosphate .
the pentaanion of a 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 4 , 5 - bisphosphate .
the conjugate base of a nucleoside 3' , 5' - cyclic phosphate .
an organophosphate oxoanion resulting from the removal of both protons from the phosphate group of 5 - amino - 1 -  ( 5 - phospho - d - ribosyl ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide .
the conjugate base of an n - acetyl - d - amino acid .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - tyrosine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy and phosphate groups of phosphoenolpyruvic acid .
the zwitterionic form of an s - substituted l - cysteine .
trianion of 2 - trans , 6 - trans , 10 - trans - geranylgeranyl diphosphate .
zwitterionic form of l - methionine  ( r )  - s - oxide .
an amino - acid residue protonated on nitrogen .
an amino - acid cation residue in which the site of protonation is on the alpha - amino nitrogen .
the conjugate base of a dialkyl phosphate compound
an organic phosphoric acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any acyl coenzyme a thioester in which one or more of the phosphate and / or diphosphate groups has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid anion with a chain length greater than c22 .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
any fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any saturated fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
an organic anion of general formula rs ( =o ) 2o (  -  )  where r is an organyl group .
polymyxins are antibiotics with a general structure consisting of a cyclic peptide with a long hydrophobic tail .
a polymyxin having a 6 - methylheptanoyl group at the amino terminus .
an n - glycan residue involved in post - translational modification of proteins .
an n - glycan residue involved in post - translational modification of proteins .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of a metalloendopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .
an l - asparagine residue having a glycosyl moiety attached to the side - chain amide nitrogen .
cinchonan or its  ( 8s )  - epimer .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
any substance capable of eliciting an immune response only when attached to a large carrier such as a protein .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that inhibits the activity of a serine endopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .21 .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of squalene monooxygenase  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .132 )  .
the conjugate acid of methylamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any substance that inhibits the synthesis of dna .
the term used to refer to the carbohydrate portion of n - glycoproteins when attached to a nitrogen from asparagine or arginine side - chains .
any fatty acid with a chain length of between c6 and c12 .
a fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety of a medium - chain fatty acid .
an  organic anion that is the conjugate base of diamino acid .
a branched n - glycan derivative that is an undecasaccharide derivative consisting of nine d - mannosyl residues and two n - acetylglucosamine residues  ( one at the reducing end )  .
any fatty acid containing at least one aldehydic or ketonic group in addition to the carboxylic acid group .
an ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of serine palmitoyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .50 )  .
a fatty acid containing at least one amino substituent .
a polyene antifungal antibiotic complex containing three biologically active components ,  a1 ,  a2 and a3 .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
an organophosphate anion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the triphosphate moiety of a nucleoside triphosphate .
any nucleotide - sugar in which one or more of the diphosphate oh groups has been deprotonated .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
a fatty acid with an amino substituent at position c - 2 .
an organooxygen compound having the structure rr'c ( or'' )  ( or''' )   ( r'' ,  r''' = / = h )  .
an acetal in the molecule of which the acetal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
a hemiacetal having the structure rr ( 1 ) c ( oh ) or ( 2 )   ( r ,  r ( 1 )  ,  r ( 2 )  = / = h )  ,  derived from a ketone by formal addition of an alcohol to the carbonyl group .
an acetal of formula r2c ( or ) 2  ( r = / = h )  derived from a ketone by replacement of the oxo group by two hydrocarbyloxy groups .
a ketal in the molecule of which the ketal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
a hemiacetal  having the structure r2c ( oh ) or  ( r = / = h )  ,  derived from a ketone by formal addition of an alcohol to the carbonyl group .
a zwitterionic tautomer of s - adenosyl - l - methionine arising from shift of the proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
an  acetylenic and an olefinic  compound containing a carbon chain that contains a carbon - carbon double bond and a carbon - carbon triple bond .
the conjugate base of any hydroxy fatty acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
the conjugate base of an n - acyl - d - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
a dna polymerase inhibitor that interferes with the activity of reverse transcriptase ,  ec 2 .7 .7 .49 ,  a viral dna polymerase enzyme that retroviruses need in order to reproduce .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
the zwitterion formed from l - proline by proton transfer from the carboxy group to the ring nitrogen .
a cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic which exerts its effect by inhibiting the synthesis of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan ,  an integral component of the fungal cell wall .
a derivative of phosphatidylinositol in which the inositol ring is phosphorylated at three unspecified positions .
a deoxyribonucleoside containing a purine base .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
a phosphosphingolipid in which an inositol residue and the ceramide moiety are linked via a phosphodiester bridge .
a silver atom having a net electric charge .
a nickel atom having a net electric charge .
a lead atom having a net electric charge .
r = c or h . the iminium ion resulting from the protonation of one of the imine nitrogens of guanidine or its derivatives .
a lead atom having a positive net electric charge .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydrolase acting on peptide bonds  ( peptidase )  ,  ec 3 .4 .* .
a caesium atom having a net electric charge .
an aluminium atom having a net electric charge .
an anion formed by deprotonation of at least one peptide carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
an acylglycerophosphocholine resulting from partial hydrolysis of a phosphatidylcholine ,  which removes one of the fatty acyl groups .
an ionic phospholipid that is the organophosphate oxoanion formed from phosphatidylglycerol by removal of a proton from the phosphate oh group .
any substance that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of valproic acid .
any fatty acid containing nitrogen as either a substituent or a replacement for a methylene carbon .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside compound having 5 - fluorouracil as the nucleobase ;  used to treat hepatic metastases of gastrointestinal adenocarcinomas and for palliation in malignant neoplasms of the liver and gastrointestinal tract .
an analogue of a nucleoside ,  being an n - glycosyl compound in which the nitrogen - containing moiety is a modified nucleotide base .
any substance which inhibits the action of receptors for excitatory amino acids .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit or promote polymerisation of microtubules .
a family of peptides related to glutathione and composed of  ( gamma - glu - cys ) n - gly where n is in the range 2 - 11 .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
a phospholipid that contains one or more amino groups .
a glucoside in which the anomeric carbon of the glycosidic bond is in a beta configuration
a non - proteinogenic l - alpha - amino acid that is l - homoserine substituted at oxygen with a guanidino  ( carbamimidamido )  group .
a nitrogen - containing fatty acid anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group of any amino fatty acid .
a fatty acid anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of any nitrogen - containing fatty acid .
a poison that interferes with the function of the kidneys .
a macrolide lactam containing a 23 - membered lactone ring ,  originally isolated from the fermentation broth of a japanese soil sample that contained the bacteria streptomyces tsukubaensis .
a peroxol r - ooh where the substituent r is an alkyl group .
a hydrate that is the monohydrate form of tacrolimus .
a nucleoside bisphosphate that has a purine nucleobase .
a nucleoside bisphosphate where sugar of the nucleoside is ribose .
a nucleotide - sugar whose nucleobase is a pyrimidine .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .98 )  .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
a nucleotide having guanine as the base .
a  nucleotide having adenine as the base .
a purine riboncleotide where adenine is the purine .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleotide where the purine is adenine .
a heteroglycan in which a backbone composed of d - mannose units is substituted with d - glucose and / or d - galactose units .
a glycerate in which at least one of the hydroxy groups has been phosphorylated .
an chromium atom having a net electric charge .
a dicarboxylate that contains four carbon atoms .
any hydroxy carboxylic acid which contains a hydroxy group located beta -  to the carboxylic acid group .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate ( 4 -  )  that is the tetraanion of 2' - deoxyadenosine 5' - triphosphate ( datp )  ,  arising from deprotonation of the four triphosphate oh groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any member of a group of iron ( iii )  chelates that are homodetic cyclic peptides made up of a tripeptide of glycine  ( or other small ,  neutral amino acid )  and a tripeptide of an n ( 4 )  - acyl - n ( 4 )  - hydroxy - l - ornithine .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate ( 4 -  )  arising from global deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of 2' - deoxyguanosine 5' - triphosphate .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside 5' - triphosphate ( 4 -  )  arising from deprotonation of the triphosphate oh groups of 2' - deoxycytidine 5' - triphosphate  ( dctp )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of n ( 2 )  - acetyl - l - lysine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a ribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion arising from global deprotonation of the  triphosphate group of any nucleoside triphosphate .
a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate oxoanion being the tetraanion formed by global deprotonation of the triphosphate group .
an organophosphate anion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the triphosphate moiety of a 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate .
any organic molecular entity derived from a fatty acid .
a cyclodepsipeptide antibiotic ,  which is isolated from the filamentous fungus aureobasidium pullulans r106 and is toxic to yeast at low concentrations  ( 0 .1 - 0 .5 ug / ml )  .
a monosaccharide derivative consisting of d - galactose having a 1 - carboxyethylidene group masking the 4 - and 6 - positions .
a triterpene glycoside and hemiacetal isolated from a fermentation of hormonema sp .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of inositol phosphorylceramide synthase .
a terpenoid in which one or more hydroxy functions are glycosylated .
a terpene glycoside in which the terpene moiety is a triterpenoid .
a fatty - acyl - coa that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with the carboxy group of any hydroxy fatty acid .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nitric oxide synthase  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .39 )  .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit polymerisation of microtubules .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of azetidine - 2 - carboxylic acid .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
any donor that can transfer acyl groups between molecular entities .
a butanediol in which hydroxylation is at c - 2 and c - 3 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of nalidixic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to at least two hydrogens .
the organophosphate oxoanion that is the dianion formed from the phosphatidylglycerol cardiolipin by loss of an electron from each of the phospho groups .
an ec 2 .7 .10 .*  ( protein - tyrosine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of receptor protein - tyrosine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .10 .1 )  .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
any branched - chain fatty acid containing methyl branches only .
an acyl - coa that results from the formal condensation of the thiol group of coenzyme a with the carboxy group of any hydroxycarboxylic acid .
any organophosphate oxoanion that is a negatively charged phospholipid ,  e .g .
an ester where the ester linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
an amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
a 2 - acylglycerophosphoinositol in which sn - glycerol ,  acylated at o ( 2 )  ,  is linked through a phospho group at o ( 3 )  to o ( 1 )  of d - myo - inositol .
a glycerophosphoinositol acylated at o ( 2 )  of the glycerol moiety .
a family of nitrogen molecular entities which are highly reactive and derived from nitric oxide  (  .no )  and superoxide  ( o2 .
any additive that enhances the efficiency of fuel .
any compound that is able to prevent damage to the liver .
an ec 1 .2 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group with oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor which interferes with the action of aldehyde oxidase  ( ec 1 .2 .3 .1 )  .
an ec 2 .4 .2 .*  ( pentosyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a nad (  +  )  adp - ribosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .2 .30 )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of mycophenolic acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of homoserine .
the chemical role played by a substance that stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability .
an aluminium atom having a positive net electric charge .
a transition element cation where the metal is specifed as cadmium .
a beta - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of beta - alanine .
an ec 1 .1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alcohol oxidase  ( ec 1 .1 .3 .13 )  .
an ec 4 .2 .1 .*  ( hydro - lyases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cystathionine beta - synthase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .22 )  .
an  ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of mitochondrial carnitine o - palmitoyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .21 )  .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
an organophosphate oxoanion resulting from deprotonation of at least one of the acidic hydroxy groups from the phosphate moiety of a ribonucleoside monophosphate .
the element or compound in a reduction - oxidation  ( redox )  reaction that donates an electron to another species .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of alkaline phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .1 )  .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a disaccharide .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a monosaccharide .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a heptose .
a heptose derivative that is formally obtained from a ketoheptose .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a hexose .
a ketoheptose derivative that is formally obtained from sedoheptulose .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a pentose .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a carbohydrate acid .
a carbohydrate acid derivative that is formally obtained from an aldonic acid .
an aldonic acid derivative that is formally obtained from a tetronic acid .
a sulfur - containing amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a branched - chain amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is a guanyl 2' - deoxyribose with one or more deprotonated phosphates on either or both of the 5' -  or 3' - hydroxy groups .
a carboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a carbohydrate acid derivative .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from an oligosaccharide .
a purine 2' - deoxyribonucleotide where the purine is guanine .
a carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of  ( s )  - 2 - methylbutyric acid with the hydroxy group adjacent to the ring junction of  ( 3r , 5r )  - 7 -  [  ( 1s , 2s , 6s , 8s , 8ar )  - 6 , 8 - dihydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 8a - hexahydronaphthalen - 1 - yl ]  - 3 , 5 - dihydroxyheptanoic acid .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside that is the l - enantiomer of thymine .
a 3 - hydroxy carboxylic acid that is  ( 3r , 5r )  - 3 , 5 - dihydroxyheptanoic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a  ( 1s , 2s , 6s , 8s , 8ar )  - 6 , 8 - dihydroxy - 2 - methyl - 1 , 2 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 8a - hexahydronaphthalen - 1 - yl group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of pravastatin .
any compound that can be used for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders .
a diadenosyl polyphosphate that consists of two adenosinyl moieties bridged by a tetraphosphate .
any lactone in which the cyclic carboxylic ester group forms a part of a cyclic macromolecule .
an organosulfonate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the sulfo groups of 4 , 4' -  [ 3 -  ( pyridin - 2 - yl )  - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazine - 5 , 6 - diyl ] dibenzenesulfonic acid .
an arenesulfonic acid that is the 4 , 4' - disulfo derivative of 5 , 6 - diphenyl - 3 -  ( pyridin - 2 - yl )  - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazine .
an agonist at the estrogen receptor .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase c receptor
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
a organic cation obtained by protonation of the two tertiary amino functions of vanoxerine
an n - alkylpiperazine that consists of piperazine bearing 2 - bis ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) methoxy ] ethyl and 3 - phenylpropyl groups at positions 1 and 4 respectively .
an alkyl hydroperoxide in which the alkyl group is tert - butyl .
an organic sodium salt resulting from the replacement of the proton from the carboxy group of butyric acid by a sodium ion .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a protein kinase receptor .
a pyrazole that is 1h - pyrazole bearing three 4 - hydroxyphenyl substituents at positions 1 ,  3 and 5 as well as a propyl substituent at position 4 .
a nine - membered oligopeptide that consists of tyrosyl ,  threonyl ,  prolyl ,  lysyl ,  valyl ,  prolyl ,  tyrosyl ,  methionyl and methyl s - farnesylcysteinate residues joined in sequence .
a polypeptide of 23 residues ,  with the sequence thr - tyr - ala - asp - phe - leu - arg - ala - tyr - gln - ser - trp - asn - thr - phe - val - asn - pro - asp - arg - pro - asn - leu .
a cationic sphingoid that is the conjugate acid of phytosphingosine ,  obtained by protonation of the primary amino function ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by an 11 - methyldodec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an ec 2 .7 .8 .*  ( transferases for other substituted phosphate groups )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any udp - n - acetylglucosamine -  - dolichyl - phosphate n - acetylglucosaminephosphotransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .8 .15 )  ,  preventing formation of n - acetylglucosamine lipid intermediates and glycosylation of newly synthesised glycoproteins .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 12 - methyltridec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a tetradec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a pentadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 13 - methyltetradec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by an 13 - methyltetradecanoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 14 - methylpentadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a hexadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a heptadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 15 - methylhexadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any erythromycin .
a compound used to form the matrix for maldi  ( matrix - assisted laser desorption / ionization )  mass spectrometry .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch - ch group of donor ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of arogenate dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .43 )  .
an organic aromatic compound whose structure contains two aromatic rings or ring systems ,  joined to each other by a single bond .
a glycerophosphocholine that is glycero - 3 - phosphocholine bearing two acyl substituents at positions 1 and 2 .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the remaining acyl group is specified as tetradecanoyl  ( myristoyl )  .
a pyrrolopyrazine that is hexahydropyrrolo [ 1 , 2 - a ] pyrazine - 1 , 4 - dione bearing an indol - 3 - ylmethyl substituent at position 3  ( the 3s , 8as - diastereomer ,  obtained by formal cyclocondensation of l - tryptophan and l - proline )  .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of tryptophan ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of methionine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the acyl group has a fully saturated c18 chain and is attached to the glycero moiety at either position 1 or 2 .
an ec 2 .1 .2 .*  ( hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine hydroxymethyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .1 )  .
an excitatory amino acid agonist which binds to nmda receptors and triggers a response .
a glycerophosphoethanolamine resulting from partial hydrolysis of a phosphatidylethanolamine ,  which removes one of the fatty acid groups .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
a dinucleotide that consists of two adenosine moieties bridge by a chain of a variable number  ( from two to six )  of phosphate units .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
an ec 1 .8 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on sulfur group of donors ,  nad +  or nadp +  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of thioredoxin reductase  ( ec 1 .8 .1 .9 )  .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any anthracycline .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
an  ec 3 .1 .4 .*  ( phosphoric diester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of phosphatidylinositol - specific phospholipase c  ( ec 3 .1 .4 .11 )  .
a group that carries an overall positive charge .
a cationic group that contains carbon .
an anthracycline cation that is the conjugate acid of doxorubicin ,  arising from protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the role played by a substance in enhancing the appearance or odour of the human body ;  a name given to the substance itself or to a component of it .
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh group of any 2 - acyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phospho - d - myo - inositol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any compound that inhibits cell division  ( mitosis )  .
an antiparasitic drug which is effective against apicomplexan parasites in the genus plasmodium .
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the free phosphate oh group of any inositol phosphoceramide ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a glycerophosphoinositol resulting from partial hydrolysis of a phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol ,  which removes one of the fatty acid groups .
an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the human immunodeficiency virus .
an anti - hiv agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of hiv - 1 ,  the more infective and more virulent of the two types of hiv virus .
a lipoxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of arachidonate 15 - lipoxygenase  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .33 )  .
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh group of any mannosylinositol phosphorylceramide ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of triacylglycerol lipase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .3 )  .
any compound that has anti - asthmatic effects .
an  ec 4 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxy - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of arginine decarboxylase  ( ec 4 .1 .1 .19 )  .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cyclopropane fatty acid synthase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .79 )  .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of site - specific dna - methyltransferase  ( adenine - specific )  ,  ec 2 .1 .1 .72 .
an acyl - coa ( 4 -  )  oxoanion arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups of any 3 - hydroxy fatty acyl - coa ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
antipsychotic drugs which can have different modes of action but which tend to be more likely than second generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements ;  such body movements can become permanent even after treatment has ceased .
an antagonist at the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor .
a carbohydrate derivative that is any derivative of a polysaccharide .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
a compound that inhibits the action of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
an ammonium ion derivative resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amino compound .
a spiro - epoxide with potent anticancer activity that lowers the mrna levels of oncogenes and tumour supressor genes .
a magnesium salt comprising of two chlorine atoms bound to a magnesium atom .
any dicarboxylic acid that contains four carbon atoms .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of alanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of citrulline ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of homocysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a carboxylic acid anion which is a conjugate base of  a histidine derivative  having either d -  or l - configuration .
a l - alpha - amino acid anion obtained by deprotonation of s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine .
any branched - chain fatty acid anion containing methyl branches only .
a sulfonium betaine that is a conjugate base of s - adenosyl - l - methionine obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a quaternary ammonium ion obtained by the protonation of the carboxy function of n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - trimethyl - l - histidine .
a lysophosphatidylcholine in which the remaining acyl group contains 20 carbons and 1 double bond .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a ryanodine receptor modulator which activates the receptor .
a reagent used in the determination of the concentration of a coloured chemical element or chemical compound in solution .
any organphosphate oxoanion resulting from the removal of both protons from the phosphate group of a phosphate monoester .
a molecule that can substitute for a normal nucleobase in nucleic acids .
the hydrochloride salt of n , n' -  ( p - xylylidene ) bis ( aminoguanidine )   [ ratio hcl : n , n' -  ( p - xylylidene ) bis ( aminoguanidine )  = 2:1 ]  .
a guanidine derivative comprised of two carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  groups ,  each linked via one of their amino nitrogens to the imino nitrogens of 1 , 4 - phenylenedimethanimine .
a diketone in which the two keto groups are separated by a single carbon atom .
any 1 , 4 - benzoquinone carrying a single hydroxy substituent .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the phosphate to the amino group of any lysophosphatidylethanolamine .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
a deoxyribonucleoside containing a pyrimidine base .
a protein kinase inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin  ( mtor )  ,  a protein that regulates cell growth ,  cell proliferation ,  cell motility ,  cell survival ,  protein synthesis and transcription .
any substance that inhibits the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
any substance that induces the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh group of any lysophosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a maleate ester resulting from the formal condensation of both carboxy groups of maleic acid with ethanol .
a compound which causes a reduction in the levels of glutathione in cells .
a  non - proteinogenic alpha - amino acid that is methionine in which the s - methyl group is replaced by an s - ethyl group .
a bicyclic macrolide natural product consisting of a 16 - membered bicyclic lactone attached to the rare 2 - thiazolidinone moiety .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - miconazole .
a member of the class of purines that is 9h - purine in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 6 are replaced by a  [ 4 -  ( morpholin - 4 - yl ) phenyl ] nitrilo group and a cyclohexylamino group ,  respectively .
any compound which induces a partially or terminally differentiated cell to revert to an earlier developmental stage .
an antagonist at the a3 receptor .
an oxindole that is indolin - 2 - one which is substituted at position 5 by an  ( ethylsulfonyl ) nitrilo group and at position 2 by a methylidene group ,  which is itself substituted by a phenyl group and a  [ 4 -  ( piperidin - 1 - ylmethyl ) phenyl ] amino group .
an ec 5 .99 .1 .*  ( miscellaneous isomerase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the topoisomerases  ( enzymes that regulate the overwinding or underwinding of dna )  .
any substance that inhibits the polymerisation of the protein actin .
any protein kinase inhibitor that inhibits the action of an aurora kinase  ( a group of serine / threonine kinases that are essential for cell proliferation )  .
a benzazepine that is 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 - tetrahydro - 1h - 2 - benzazepine which is substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 7 and 8 and on the nitrogen atom by a 2 -  ( p - chlorophenyl ) ethylaminothiocarbonyl group .
any substance which blocks the painful sensation of heat caused by capsaicin acting on the trpv1 ion channel .
a glutamic acid derivative resulting from reaction of glutamine acid at the amino group ,  the carboxy group ,  or the side - chain carboxamide ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .98  ( histone deacetylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of sir2 .
any ketone that is 1 , 3 - diphenylpropanone and its derivatives obtained by substitution .
a member of the class of dihydrochalcones that is acetophenone in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group is replaced by a benzyl group .
an antagonist at any adenosine receptor .
an oligosaccharide derivative that is derived from a mannooligosaccharide .
the term used to refer to the 'carbohydrate' portion of n - glycoproteins when attached to a nitrogen from asparagine or arginine side - chains ,  when this portion is a carbohydrate derivative .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of tetracycline obtained by deprotonation of the two enolic hydroxy groups and protonation of the tertiary amino group .
an ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of fatty acid synthase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .85 )  ,  a multi - enzyme protein involved in fatty acid synthesis .
members of the class of tetrahydrochromenochromene that consists of a cis - fused tetrahydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] chromene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
benzoquinones with at least one hydroxy substituent .
a carbohydrate acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any aldonic acid .
any organooxygen compound that has the general formula rc ( or ( 1 )  )  ( or ( 2 )  )  ( or ( 3 )  )  ,  where r ( 1 )  ,  r ( 2 )  ,  r ( 3 )  = / = h .
a pyridinium ion that is 3 -  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl )  - 2 - methylpyridine substituted at position 1 by a  ( 4 - amino - 2 - methylpyrimidin - 5 - yl ) methyl group .
any organic molecular entity whose stucture is based on derivatives of a phenyl - substituted 1 - phenylpropane possessing a c15 or c16 skeleton ,  or such a structure which is condensed with a c6 - c3 lignan precursors .
any chromenochromene resulting from the formal cis - fusion of two dihydro chromene rings ,  together with their substituted derivatives .
members of the class of rotenoid which consists of a 6a , 12a - dihydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] chromen - 12 ( 6h )  - one skeleton and its substituted products .
any organic molecular entity derived from a natural product by partial chemical synthesis .
an macrolide antibiotic isolated from the pathogenic plant fungus rhizopus microsporus .
any of the carbohydrate - containing antibiotic compounds obtained from the deuteromycetous fungus papularia sphaerosperma and generally consisting of o - orsellinic acid linked via a spirocyclic structure to a lactose moiety with two different side - chains: a shorter fatty - acid chain at the o -  ( 6' )  position and a longer side - chain at the o -  ( 3 )  position of the glucose moiety .
a cyclic ketal in which the ketal carbon is the only common atom of two rings .
a papulacandin that is papulacandin a in which the 6 - o - acylgalactosyl group is replaced by a hydrogen .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
a cyclic dipeptide that is brevianamide f  ( cyclo - l - trp - l - pro )  substituted at position 2 on the indole ring by a prenyl group .
a biomacromolecule composed of carbohydrate residues which is secreted by a microorganism into the surrounding environment .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the phosphate to the amino group of any glycerophosphoethanolamine .
any organic amino compound that has an amino group and a hydroxy group attached to the same carbon atom .
an  ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of h (  +  )  - transporting two - sector atpase inhibitor  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .14 )  .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase which acts on acid anhydrides  ( ec 3 .6 .* .
an organophosphate oxoanion formed by deprotonation of the diphosphate oh groups of any 2' - deoxynucleoside 5' - diphosphate .
a mancude heterobicyclic organic group consisting of a benzene ring fused to a pyrrole ring .
any organic molecule containing a c#c bond .
any naphthyridine derivative that is a derivative of 1 , 8 - naphthyridine .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound that is a derivative of a naphthyridine .
a bicyclic organic group that contains both carbon and hetero atoms .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from erythrose 4 - phosphate and phosphoenolpyruvate  ( i .e .
a lysophosphatidylcholine 18:0 in which the acyl substituent is located at position 1 and is specified as stearoyl .
an antimetabolite that impairs the action of folic acids
an  ec 1 .17 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2 )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of ribonucleoside - diphosphate reductase  ( ec 1 .17 .4 .1 )  .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a five - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
a member of the class of ureas that has the general formula r - co - nh - co - nh2 or r - co - nh - co - nh - co - r' ,  formally derived by the acylation of one or both of the nitrogens of a urea moiety .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - asparagine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - valine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an organic heterotetracyclic compound that is the 9 -  epimer of 4' - demethylpodophyllotoxin .
a pyrimidinemonocarboxylic that is orotic acid which is substituted by fluorine at position 5 .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of paracetamol  ( acetaminophen )  .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of curare .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
any organic aromatic compound having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a heteroarene ring .
any oligosaccharide that has a biosynthetic pathway in common with that of raffinose .
a mixture of glycopeptide antibiotics originally isolated from the bacterium streptomyces verticillus whose components all contain a thiazolinylthiazole moiety and can form complexes with redox - active metals such as co ,  cu ,  and fe .
a glycopeptide originally isolated from the bacterium streptomyces verticillus which contains a  ( 4'r )  - 4' , 5' - dihydro - 2 , 4' - bi - 1 , 3 - thiazole - 2' , 4 - diyl moiety with a a 4 - guanidylbutylaminocarbonyl group attached to the 4 - position of the terminal thiazole ring .
an ec 5 .4 .3 .*  ( intramolecular transferase transferring amino groups )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of lysine 2 , 3 - aminomutase  ( ec 5 .4 .3 .2 )  .
an arsine oxide derived from phenylarsine .
any compound that inhibits one or more steps in the pathway leading to the synthesis of ergosterol .
an inhibitor of peroxidases  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .
an ec 1 .11 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the peroxidases  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .
a 1 , 2 - diglyceride with acyl groups at positions 2 and 3 of the sn - glycerol .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of an isomerase  ( ec 5 .* .* .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - n bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a ligase  ( ec 6 .* .* .* )  .
a polyether antibiotic which affects ion transport and atpase activity in mitochondria .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
a role played by any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
a pyranone based on the structure of 2h - pyran - 2 - one and its substituted derivatives .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
any isotopically modified compound that has one or more hydrogen atoms replaced by deuterium .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a ketone in which the carbonyl group is attached to an aromatic ring .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of suberic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organophosphate oxoanion derived from an inositol phosphate .
an aromatic ether that is 4 - methoxyphenol in which one of the hydrogens ortho -  to the methoxy group is replaced by a tert - butyl group .
an aromatic ether that is 4 - methoxyphenol in which one of the hydrogens ortho -  to the phenolic hydroxy group is replaced by a tert - butyl group .
a mixture of 2 - tert - butyl - 4 - hydroxyanisole and 3 - tert - butyl - 4 - hydroxyanisole .
an  ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone acetyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .48 )  .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
an anionic phospholipid composed of two molecules of glycerol phosphate covalently linked to a molecule of glycerol ,  and in which each of the glycerol phosphate moieties may be esterified to one or two fatty acids .
any unsaturated fatty acid anion containing more than one c - c unsaturated bond .
any lipid that is glycerol bearing two substituent groups  -  either acyl ,  alkyl ,  or alk - 1 - enyl  -  at any two of the three possible positions .
any protective agent that is able to prevent damage to the kidney .
a polyene macrolide antibiotic ;  part of the nystatin complex produced by several streptococcus species .
an ec 2 .7 .10 .*  ( protein - tyrosine kinase )  inhibitor that specifically blocks the action of non - specific protein - tyrosine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .10 .2 )  .
an amino acid betaine that is ergothioneine in which the hydrogen attached to the sulfur is replaced by a methyl group .
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of transferase of a one - carbon - containing group  ( ec 2 .1 .* .
a transferase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an acyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .* .
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of a glycosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .* .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the transfer of an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the action of a phosphorus - containing group transferase  ( ec 2 .7 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an intramolecular oxidoreductase  ( ec 5 .3 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an intramolecular transferase  ( ec 5 .4 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any member of the group of 'other isomerases'  ( ec 5 .99 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of a lyase  ( ec 4 .* .* .* )  .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - c lyase  ( ec 4 .1 .* .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - o lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .* .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - n lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - oh group of donors  ( ec 1 .1 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donors  ( ec 1 .2 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - ch group of donors  ( ec 1 .3 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh group of donors  ( ec 1 .5 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on  nadh or nadph  ( ec 1 .6 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase of class ec 1 .8 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on a heme group of donors  ( ec 1 .9 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors  ( ec 1 .11 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ,  ec 1 .13 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on hydrogen as donors  ( ec 1 .14 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2  ( ec 1 .17 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
any ec 3 .4 .21 .*  ( serine endopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prolyl oligopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .21 .26 )  .
an ec 2 .4 .*  ( glycosyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any pentosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .2 .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a glutathione transferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .18 )  .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any protein - serine / threonine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any nucleotidyltransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with any enzyme in the ec 2 .7 .8 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any protein - tyrosine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .10 .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any acid - ammonia  ( or amine )  ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .
an ec 5 .4 .*  ( intramolecular transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any intramolecular transferase transferring amino groups  ( ec 5 .4 .3 .
an ec 5 .99 .*  ( other isomerases )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any enzyme in the ec 5 .99 .1 .
an ec 4 .3 .*  ( c - n lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .5 .*  ( transferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any transferase that transfers an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .
an ec 1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group )  inhibitor that uses nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .
an ec 1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .1 .3 .
an ec 1 .13 .*  [ oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ]  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any oxidoreductase incorporating 2 atoms of oxygen  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using reduced flavin or flavoprotein as donor  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using nadh or nadph as one donor  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .
an ec 1 .17 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch or ch2 )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any such enzyme that uses a disulfide as acceptor  ( ec 1 .17 .4 .
an ec 1 .2 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .2 .3 .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .
an ec 1 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .
an ec 1 .6 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on nadh or nadph )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using a quinone or similar as acceptor  ( ec 1 .6 .5 .
an ec 1 .8 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on sulfur group of donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .8 .1 .
an ec 1 .9 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any methyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .
an ec 2 .3 .*  ( acyltransferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any acyltransferase transferring groups other than amino - acyl groups  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphotransferase with an alcohol group as acceptor  ( ec 2 .7 .1 .
an ec 3 .6 .*  ( hydrolases acting on acid anhydrides )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme that catalyses transmembrane movement of substances  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .
an ec 1 .14 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating of 1 atom of oxygen ,  with reduced flavin or flavoprotein as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of an unspecified monooxygenase  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .1 )  .
an ec 4 .1 .*  ( c - c lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any carboxy - lyase  ( ec 4 .1 .1 .
an ec 4 .2 .*  ( c - o lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydro - lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in the mould ,  aspergillus .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in penicillium .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
any bacterial metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in bacteria .
1 , 2 - diacyl - sn - glycerol in which both the 1 -  and 2 - acyl groups are specified as octanoyl .
a 2 , 3 - diacyl - sn - glycerol in which both the 2 -  and 3 - acyl groups are specified as octanoyl .
a synthetic or semi - synthetic compound that has oestrogenic activity .
any compound produced by a fungus that happens to have estrogenic activity .
an ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 4 - nitrophenylphosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .41 )  .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of serine - sulfate ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .10 )  .
an ec 2 .1 .1 .*  ( methyltransferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of  ( s )  - tetrahydroprotoberberine n - methyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .1 .122 )  .
a dye used in microscopic or electron microscopic examination of cells and tissues to give contrast and to highlight particular features of interest ,  such as nuclei and cytoplasm .
an iminium ion that is malachite green cation in which the hydrogen at the para -  psition of the monosubstituted phenyl group is replaced by a dimethylamino group .
a food additive that imparts colour to food .
an ec 3 .4 .24 .*  ( metalloendopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of anthrax lethal factor endopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .83 )  .
any protective agent that is able to prevent damage to the heart .
an ec 1 .8 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on sulfur group of donors ,  nad +  or nadp +  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of trypanothione - disulfide reductase  ( ec 1 .8 .1 .12 )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any dicarboxylic acid monoamide ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of shikimate dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .25 )  .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of terbinafine ,  obtained by protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an acyl - coa ( 4 -  )  arising from deprotonation of the phosphate and diphosphate oh groups of any fatty acyl - coa ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of histidine ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .3 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of xenobiotic - transporting atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .44 )  .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 13 - deoxydaunorubicin hydroxylase  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .181 )  .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of diaminopropionate ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .15 )  .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy group to the 1 - amino group of tetracycline .
an organic phosphate that is phosphoric acid in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by an organyl group .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
a fatty acid anion containing 18 carbons and one double bond .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 3 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 4 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 6 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 8 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 18 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 24 carbons .
any member of the class of lysophosphatidylcholines which has a free hydroxy group at the 2 - position of the glycerol moiety .
any member of the class of lysophosphatidylcholines which has a free hydroxy group at the 1 - position of the glycerol moiety .
a glycerophosphoethanolamine zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the phosphate to the amino group of any monoacylglycero - 3 - phosphoethanolamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an anionic phospholipid that is the conjugate base of a 1 , 2 - diacylglycero - 3 - phospho - 1 - inositol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an anionic phospholipid that is the conjugate base of a 2 - acylglycero - 3 - phospho - 1 - inositol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the phosphate oh group of any monoacylglycero - 3 - phospho - 1 - inositol ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a physiological role played by any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
an ec 2 .7 .1 .*  ( phosphotransferases with an alcohol group as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of hexokinase ,  ec 2 .7 .1 .1 ,  an enzyme that phosphorylates hexoses forming hexose phosphate .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of acyl - coa dehydrogenase  ( nadp (  +  )  )  ,  ec 1 .3 .1 .8 .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of carboxylesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .1  )  .
any pyrimidine that bears one or more carboxylic acid substituents .
an alpha - amino - acid cation residue obtained by protonation of the amino function of any n - terminal alpha - amino - acid residue ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
a peroxol that is cumene in which the alpha - hydrogen is replaced by a hydroperoxy group .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
an antagonist that binds to and deactivates the tropomyosin - related kinase b  ( trkb )  receptor ,  the main signaling receptor of the neurotrophin brain - derived neurotrophic factor  ( bdnf )  .
a ketohexose bisphosphate that is d - fructose substituted by phosphate groups at positions 1 and 6 .
an ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycylpeptide n - tetradecanoyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .97 )  .
a nucleotide - sugar oxoanion that is the conjugate base of udp - alpha - d - glucosamine ,  arising from deprotonation of the diphosphate group and protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of myosin - light - chain kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .18 )  .
a family of plant metabolites with a common 1 , 7 - diphenylheptane structural skeleton ,  carrying various substituents .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of l - canavanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon of the carboxy group is directly attached to a c=c or c#c bond .
a thioadenosine that is adenosine in which the hydroxy group at c - 5' is replaced by a 3 - aminopropyl group .
a l - histidine derivative which is an intermediate in the synthesis of ergothioneine ,  a compound found in certain fungi and mycobacteria .
a l - histidine derivative which is an intermediate in the synthesis of selenoneine ,  a compound found in certain fungi and mycobacteria .
a histidine derivative that is n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - trimethyl - l - histidine substituted by a selenoxo group at position 2 on the imidazole ring .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of mitogen - activated protein kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .24 )  .
a member of the class of pantothenic acids that is an amide formed from pantoic acid and beta - alanine .
any compound that is added to manufactured materials to inhibit ,  suppress ,  or delay the production of flames and so prevent the spread of fire .
a terpene lactone that is obtained from codinea simplex and acts as an inhibitor of glycerophosphoinositol biosynthesis .
a pathway inhibitor that disrupts the synthesis of glycerophosphoinositol
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
any nitrile derived from an aliphatic compound .
an aryl beta - d - glucoside that is  phloretin attached to a  beta - d - glucopyranosyl residue at position 2' via a glycosidic linkage .
a member of the class of monohydroxy - 1 , 4 - benzoquinones that is 2 - hydroxy - 1 , 4 - benzoquinone carrying an additional methyl substituent at position 5 .
an elemental molecular entity in which all of the atoms have atomic number 26 .
any unsaturated fatty acid anion with one double or triple bond in the fatty acid chain .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion formed from hercynylselenocysteine by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion formed from hercynylcysteine sulfoxide by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a l - histidine derivative that is n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - trimethyl - l - histidine in which the hydrogen at position 2 on the imdazole ring is replaced by a thioxo group .
a  hydroxy - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 5 are substituted by methyl and hydroxy groups ,  respectively .
an antagonist that binds to and deactivates glucocorticoid receptors .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( imidazol - 1 - yl ) ethanol in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyl group .
a 1 -  [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] imidazole that has r configuration .
a 1 -  [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] imidazole that has s )  configuration .
a dioxolane that is 1 , 3 - dioxolane which is substituted at positions 2 ,  2 ,  and 4 by 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ,  1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ,  and  [ 4 -  ( 4 - isopropylpiperazin - 1 - yl ) phenoxy ] methyl groups ,  respectively .
a 1 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl )  - 4 - isopropylpiperazine in which positions 2 and 4 of the 1 , 3 - dioxolane moiety have r and s configuration ,  respectively .
a 1 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl )  - 4 - isopropylpiperazine in which positions 2 and 4 of the 1 , 3 - dioxolane moiety have s and r configuration ,  respectively .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia galeata .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia tenebrosa .
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the phospho groups of any phosphatidylinositol bisphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an anionic phospholipid obtained by deprotonation of the phospho groups of any phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino - acid residue derived from an l - alpha - amino acid .
a 1 - phosphatidyl - 1d - myo - inositol 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate ( 7 -  )  in which the phosphatidyl acyl groups at positions 1 and 2 are specified as stearoyl and arachidonoyl respectively .
a cyclodepsipeptide that is isolated from papua new guinea collections of the marine sponges theonella mirabilis and theonella swinhoei .
a macrolide that is the major component of a mixture of four isomeric polyene macrolides isolated from streptomyces filipinensis .
a macrolide that is isolated from the cultured broth of hypomyces subiculosus and shows antifungal activity and inhibits the growth of some human cancer cells .
any compound that inhibits the biosynthesis of any sterol .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of delta ( 14 )  - sterol reductase  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .70 )  .
an ester resulting from the formal condensation of the hydroxy group of an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol with an organosulfonic acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring in which only one substituent is chlorine .
a primary ammonium ion obtained by protonation of the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ester ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organosulfate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the sulfo group of any alkyl sulfate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any alkane having a chain length of at least 13 carbon atoms .
any member of the class of fluorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring carrying a single fluorine substitutent .
an organic salt in which the cation has the structure  ( rn ) 2c=n (  +  ) r2 .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any derivative of a non - proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group or carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any l - alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from the formal reaction of l - cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - cysteine by a heteroatom .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino function of any sphingoid
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 - saturated fatty acid .
a methyl - branched fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - glutamic acid by a heteroatom .
any phospho sugar that is the phosphate derivative of pentose .
a homodetic cyclic tetrapeptide constructed from l - phenylalanyl  ( x2 )  ,  d - pipecolinyl and l - 2 - amino - 8 - oxo - 9 , 10 - epoxydecanoyl residues .
a l - glutamine derivative that is l - glutamine substituted by a 1 -  [  ( carboxymethyl ) amino ]  - 1 - oxobutan - 2 - yl at the terminal amino nitrogen atom .
a phenylalanine derivative in which the hydrogen at position 4 on the benzene ring is replaced by a fluoro group .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from the formal reaction of l - histidine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or the imidazolyl moiety ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - histidine by a heteroatom .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human urine samples .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - serine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - serine by a heteroatom .
an inositol phosphate oxoanion resulting from the removal of both of the protons from the phosphate group of a myo - inositol monophosphate .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - phenylalanine  at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nicotinamidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .19 )  .
a member of the class of pyridoquinolines that is 9 -  ( quinolin - 3 - yl ) benzo [ h ]  [ 1 , 6 ] naphthyridin - 2 - one bearing an additional 4 -  ( 4 - propionylpiperazin - 1 - yl )  - 3 -  ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl substituent at position 1 .
a hydrochloride resulting from the reaction of decamethylenediguanidine with 2 mol eq .
a member of the class of guanidines that is decane having guanidino groups at the 1 -  and 10 - positions .
a pyrazole obtained by cyclocodensation of the two carbonyl groups of curcumin with hydrazine .
a phytoceramide is a ceramide where the sphingoid base is hydroxylated at position 4 .
a cationic sphingoid obtained by protonation of the amino group of any 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - dihydroxysphingoid base .
a lysophosphatidylcholine with defined stereochemistry where the position of the acyl group is unknown .
any iron ( iii )  hydroxamate in which the hydroxamate component is a siderophore .
any iron chelate that consists of a siderophore complexed to iron ( iii ) 
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of amiloride .
any cosmetic used to lighten the colour of skin by reducing the concentration of melanin .
an organic heterooctacyclic compound that is 1h , 1'h - 2 , 2' - biindole in which the nitrogens have undergone formal oxidative coupling to positions 2 and 5 of hexyl  ( 3s )  - 3 - hydroxy - 2 - methyltetrahydrofuran - 3 - carboxylate  ( the 2r , 3s , 5s product )  ,  and in which the 3 and 3' positions of the biindole moiety have also undergone formal oxidative coupling to positions 3 and 4 of 1 , 5 - dihydro - 2h - pyrrol - 2 - one .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of camp - dependent protein kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .11 )  .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cgmp - dependent protein kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .12 )  .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of  ( 9z )  - 12 - hydroxyoctadec - 9 - enoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human blood serum samples .
a bismuth atom having a net electric charge .
a member of the class of pyridopyrimidines that is an mtor inhibitor and shows anti - tumour properties .
a racemate comprising equal amounts of  ( 1r , 2r )  -  and  ( 1s , 2s )  - ormaplatin .
a platinum coordination entity that consists of a central platunum atom bound to chloro  ( x2 )  ,  acetate  ( x2 )  ,  amino ,  and cyclohexylamino groups .
a platinum coordination entity that consists of a central platinum atom bound to chloro  ( x2 )  ,  hydroxy  ( x2 )  ,  amino ,  and cyclohexylamino groups .
a trinuclear platinum coordination entity that is the tetranitrate salt of triplatin .
a platinum coordination entity that is the cationic portion of triplatin tetranitrate .
a member of the class of indanones that is 1 - indanone substituted at position 2 by bromo and  [  ( 4 - methylphenyl ) sulfonyl ] methyl groups .
a tetracycline - like polyketide antibiotic that is produced by several species of penicillium and aspergillus .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of ditrans , polycis - undecaprenyl - diphosphate synthase  [  ( 2e , 6e )  - farnesyl - diphosphate specific ]  .
a member of the class of imidazoles bearing methyl ,  amino and selenocarboxamido substituents at positions 1 ,  4 and 5 respectively .
a hydroxy fatty acid that is  ( 9z )  - octadec - 9 - enoic  ( oleic )  acid carrying a hydroxy substituent at position 12 .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the amino to the carboxy group of any n - methyl - l - alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any aliphatic sulfide in which at least one of the organyl groups attached to the sulfur is a methyl group .
a compound that has a structure that is related to miconazole ,  contains an azole  ( imidazole or triazole )  moiety ,  and has significant systemic antifungal properties .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related skeleton .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any substance used in acriculture ,  horticulture ,  forestry ,  etc .
a gluconic acid having l - configuration .
an ec 5 .3 .*  ( intramolecular oxidoreductase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any such enzyme that transposes c=c bonds  ( ec 5 .3 .3 .
an ec 5 .3 .3 .*  ( intramolecular oxidase transposing c=c bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a cholestenol delta - isomerase  ( ec 5 .3 .3 .5 )  .
either of the two diastereoisomers of 1 - acetyl - 4 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl ) piperazine in which the imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl group and the aryloxymethyl group are in a cis relationship to each other  -  i .e .
a compound that has significant antifungal properties whose structure contains an imidazole moiety .
a member of the class of triazole that has significant antifungal properties .
heteroorganic entities that are microbial metabolites  ( or compounds derived from them )  which have significant antifungal properties .
compounds that contain a benzimidazole moiety as a key feature of their structure and which have been used as fungicides .
compounds that contain a carbamate ester moiety as a key feature of their structure and which have been used as fungicides .
any carbamate fungicide that contains a benzimidazolyl group attached to the nitrogen of the carbamate moiety .
any imidazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in humans or animals .
any conazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in animals or humans .
any triazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in humans or animals .
any antibiotic antifungal agent used to treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any antibiotic antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
an organonitrogen compound that contains an amino group that is attached to a carbon which is itself attached to an olefinic carbon and which has been used as an antifungal drug .
a member of the class of morpholines that has significant antifungal properties .
any morpholine antifungal agent used as a fungicide .
an organophosphate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of two of the three diphosphate oh groups of adenosine 5' - diphosphate .
any organooxygen compound whose structure is related to compactin  ( mevastatin )  and which may be used as an anticholesteremic drug due its ec 1 .1 .1 .34 / ec 1 .1 .1 .88  ( hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase )  inhibitory properties .
any statin that occurs in nature .
a statin that is derived from a naturally occurring statin by partial chemical synthesis .
any fatty acid ester in which the carboxylic acid component is octanoic acid  ( caprylic acid )  .
any organic amino compound that contains two or more amino groups .
a diglyceride obtained by acylation of any two hydroxy groups of glycerol by octanoic acid .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the hydroxy group of 2 - hydroxy - 5 - methylquinone .
any ionophore capable of transportation of potassium ions across membranes .
any compound that inhibits the process of autophagy  ( the self - digestion of one or more components of a cell through the action of enzymes originating within the same cell )  .
a 1 - icosenoyl - sn - glycero - 3 - phosphocholine in which the the double bond of the icosenoyl group is at the 11 - 12 position and has z configuration .
an organic sodium salt that is the sodium salt of dodecyl hydrogen sulfate .
a homodetic cyclic peptide composed from two units of three glycyl and three n ( 5 )  - acetyl - n ( 5 )  - hydroxy - l - ornithyl residues .
an l - cysteine derivative in which the thiol hydrogen of l - cysteine is replaced by an adenosyl group .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
any peptide zwitterion comprising two amino acid residues .
a carboxylic acic anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any aromatic carboxylic acid .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates elastin - laminin receptors .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of ricinoleic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a macrolide lactam isolated from streptomyces hygroscopicus consisting of a 29 - membered ring containing 4 trans double bonds ,  three of which are conjugated .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is the 1 , 6 - dicarboxy derivative of hexane .
a tertiary amine that is n - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethylamine in which the amino hydrogen is replaced by a 3 -  ( tertbutylethynyl ) allyl group .
a racemate consisting of equimolar amounts of  ( 2r , 4s )  -  and  ( 2s , 4r )  - terconazole .
the n - tosyl derivative of l - phenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone .
a tetracyclic spiroepoxide which acts as an antifungal and protein synthesis inhibitor .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
a cell that lacks a nucleus .
a cell with a single nucleus .
a cell with more than one nucleus .
a spore formed following meiosis .
a cell found in an organism or derived from an organism exhibiting a phenotype that deviates from the expected phenotype of any native cell type of that organism .
a cell containing at least one nucleus .
a differentiated form of a fungus produced during or as a result of an asexual or sexual reproductive process ;  usually a cell with a thick cell wall that stores and protects one or more nuclei .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - mc and mat1 - mi on the mat1 locus .
a s . pombe cell type determined by mat1 - pc and mat1 - pi on the mat1 locus .
a nucleus size quality which is relatively high compared to the amount of cytoplasm present in the same cell .
any of the set of observable characteristics of an organism resulting from the interaction of its genotype with the environment .
a phenotype that is observed at the level of an individual cell .
a phenotype that is observed at the level of a population of cells .
a cell phenotype that consists of the cell's disposition to survive and develop normally .
a cell phenotype characterized by altered cell morphology ,  i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is abnormal .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the s phase dna damage checkpoint  ( also known as the intra - s phase dna damage checkpoint )  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which reciprocal meiotic recombination is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which adhesion of a cell to a substrate or another cell is abnormal .
a cell adhesion phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells fail to adhere to a substrate .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not proceed normally through a cell cycle .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins later than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell length is normal ,  and a new growth zone forms along the lateral portion of the cell  ( often in the middle )  before septation ,  such that a single cell grows in the form of the letter t .
a cell morphology phenotype in which the cell tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a daughter cell begins to grow from the lateral portion of the long axis of the cell ,  and at an angle to the septum or cell division site of the mother cell ,  resulting in the formation of a single cell that has a branch .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is curved along the long axis .
a cell morphology phenotype in which cells are longer than normal ,  and the length:diameter ratio is greater than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a pear .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell forms a mating projection with a longer tip than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell has an abnormally low volume .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell has a larger volume than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the establishment or maintenance of cell polarity is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell wall is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromosome segregation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromosome congression is abnormal during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype in which conjugation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytokinesis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring localization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which endocytosis is abnormal .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize arginine ,  and therefore requires arginine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize asparagine ,  and therefore requires asparagine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize cysteine ,  and therefore requires cysteine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize ethanolamine ,  and therefore requires ethanolamine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize lysine ,  and therefore requires lysine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize methionine ,  and therefore requires methionine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize phenylalanine ,  and therefore requires phenylalanine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell requires sulfite in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which glucan biosynthesis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of transcription by glucose  ( glucose repression )  is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype in which a population of cells grow abnormally .
a cell population phenotype in which cell population growth is decreased relative to normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a population of cells grow normally  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which invasive growth does not occur .
a viability phenotype in which a cell is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type cells survive .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the kinetochore is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiosis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not proceed normally through a meiotic cell cycle .
a phenotype that affects the organization of the microtubule cytoskeleton .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form microtubules that are longer than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria have fused into fewer and larger structures than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitochondrial nucleoid is larger than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains fewer mitochondrial nucleoids than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not proceed normally through a mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains a single nucleus .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more than one nucleus .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the nucleus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which dna recombination is abnormal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of 2 - deoxyglucose than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of 5 - azacytidine than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of l - azetidine - 2 - carboxylic acid than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of brefeldin a than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of k - 252a than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of thiabendazole than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of amphotericin b than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of aureobasidin a than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of benomyl than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of caffeine than normal .
obsolete .an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of a drug than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of lovastatin than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of nystatin than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of rapamycin than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cellular respiration is abnormal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to caspofungin .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal at a low temperature .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to conditions of high osmolarity .
a cell population phenotype in which the growth of a population of cells is decreased relative to normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle at high temperatures .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to enfumafungin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 6 - azauracil .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to camptothecin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tacrolimus .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to hydroxyurea .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to methyl methanesulfonate .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to n - ethylmaleimide .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to thiabendazole .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to amiodarone .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to an arsenic - containing substance .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to benomyl .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to bleomycin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cadmium .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to caffeine .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to calcium .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to canavanine .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to chloramphenicol .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to chlorpropham .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cisplatin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to copper ions .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cycloheximide .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cyclosporin a .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to hygromycin b .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to latrunculin a .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to menadione .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to papulacandin b .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to pravastatin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to rapamycin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sorbitol .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to staurosporine .
a phenotype that affects a cellular process .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to valproic acid .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to zinc ions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septum assembly is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle characterized by the presence of more than one septum in a cell .
a cellular process phenotype in which spindle assembly is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the presence ,  distribution ,  or morphology of the mitotic or meiotic spindle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore formation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere maintenance ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuoles are larger than normal .
a viability phenotype in which a cell is able to survive under the specified conditions .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of amiloride than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased resistance to a chemical stimulus .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased resistance to a chemical stimulus .
a phenotype in which a cell requires a particular organic compound ,  which is not required by a wild - type cell for its growth .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is formed in the shape of a sphere .
a spindle phenotype in which the spindle is shorter than normal .
a spindle phenotype in which mitotic spindle elongation ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which primary cell septum disassembly is abnormal ;  may result in the formation of chains of attached cells .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more than one nucleus ,  is longer than normal ,  and has a greater length:diameter ratio than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms one or more branches near a septum ,  is elongated ,  and has more than one septum .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of sterols in the plasma membrane is abnormal .
a phenotype that affects any physical object quality ,  such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of a cell or a cellular component .
a cell phenotype that affects any mitotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of a structure or substance in a cell .
a cell phenotype that affects the rate or extent of cell population growth .
a cellular process phenotype that affects metabolism in the cell .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype that affects gene expression .
a gene expression phenotype that affects the regulation of dna - dependent transcription .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype that affects the regulation of a molecular function ,  biological process ,  or biological quality .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing is abnormal in centromeric regions .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cell process phenotype that affects a transport process .
a cell population phenotype in which the morphology ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic chromosome segregation is abnormal .
a stress response phenotype in which the response to nitrogen starvation is abnormal .
obsolete .a colony morphology phenotype in which cells form clumps .
a regulation phenotype in which negative regulation of the g0 to g1 transition is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype that reflects increased occurrence of flocculation .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at the silent mating - type cassettes is abnormal .
a stress response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the response to dna damage is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total amount of dna in a cell is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromosome condensation is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which dna is broken into small fragments .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which contractile ring assembly is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype in which a cellular response to stress is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which macroautophagy is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation after cytokinesis is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of conjugation is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which negative regulation of the g2 to m transition of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of dna recombination at replication fork barriers is increased .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the spindle assembly checkpoint of a mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at subtelomeric regions is abnormal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which late endosome to vacuole transport is abnormal .
a meiosis phenotype in which meiotic telomere clustering is abnormal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the dna replication checkpoint in a mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell wall biogenesis is abnormal .
a sporulation phenotype in which ascospore wall assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the initiation of dna replication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which assembly of the mitotic spindle is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of cytokinesis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein targeting to the vacuole via the multivesicular sorting pathway ,  leading to ubiquitin - dependent protein degradation ,  is abnormal .
a stress response phenotype in which a cellular response to oxidative stress is abnormal .
a dna recombination phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which reciprocal dna recombination does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell wall organization is abnormal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of polyadenylated mrna from the nucleus is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of pseudohyphal growth is abnormal .
a dna recombination phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which gene conversion occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell division is abnormal .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing mediated by small rna is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna repair is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mrna splicing via the spliceosome is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch localization is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of the establishment or maintenance of cell polarity is abnormal .
obsolete .a regulation phenotype in which regulation of progression through s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a stress response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cellular response to osmotic stress is abnormal .
a stress response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide is abnormal .
a sporulation phenotype in which prospore formation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which horsetail movement is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the establishment or maintenance of actin cytoskeleton polarity is abnormal .
a dna recombination phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of long tract gene conversion is increased .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of the mitotic metaphase to anaphase transition is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone deacetylation is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of cytokinetic cell separation is abnormal .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ergosterol biosynthesis is abnormal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of mrna from the nucleus is abnormal .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at ribosomal dna repeats is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to caffeine is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to cadmium ions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during the first meiotic nuclear division is abnormal .
obsolete .a chemical response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to a chemical is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to heat is abnormal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vesicle - mediated transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation is abnormal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which intracellular protein transport is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which dna replication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mre11 complex assembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of oxidation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is increased ,  resulting in the accumulation of proteins with oxidative modifications including carbonylated proteins .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rnas transcribed from the centromere outer repeat region are present at greater levels than normal .
obsolete .a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the transcription of specific genes is regulated in response to the loss of mitochondrial dna .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is longer ,  and has a greater length:diameter ratio ,  than normal ,  and has more than one septum .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single cell grows in the form of a lemon .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a spore assumes a snowman shape ,  having two connected parts ,  roughly spherical ,  of different sizes .
a chromosome segregation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more chromosome or minichromosome is not correctly segregated to either daughter cells during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during mitosis ,  but instead one or more chromosomes remain distant from the spindle pole after the bulk of the dna has separated .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation despite abnormal mitotic chromosome segregation ,  and gives rise to inviable daughter cells .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly and distribution of actin filaments and associated proteins does not occur normally ,  resulting in the formation of an abnormal actomyosin contractile ring in which actin is absent or mislocalized .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which myosin filaments are not localized normally within the actomyosin contractile ring .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the actomyosin contractile ring splits upon initiation of contraction during anaphase b ,  resulting in the formation of a primary ring that undergoes constriction and a secondary ring that does not constrict .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are longer than normal .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of cytoplasmic microtubules is abnormal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a gene expression phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of translation in response to osmotic stress is abnormal .
a gene expression phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of translation in response to oxidative stress is abnormal .
a gene expression phenotype in which regulation of translation in response to nitrogen starvation is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which a cell fails to resume growth after several days in g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more mlui cell cycle box factor elements  ( mcbs )  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of invasively growing filaments is abnormal .
obsolete .a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which any process that affects the physical integrity ,  replication ,  or segregation of genomic dna is abnormal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells are deprived of nutrients such as carbon or nitrogen .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase .
a cell population phenotype in which a cell population grows only in the presence of an antioxidant in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a vegetative cell population phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing ammonia as the nitrogen source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing l - proline as the nitrogen source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing galactose as the carbon source .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterothallic haploid cells spontaneously form cells with diploid dna content at a higher frequency than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase  ( nadph )  activity is increased .
a cellular metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the observed occurrence of protein processing is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in the cell nucleus is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mutations occur at a higher frequency than normal .
a phenotype that shows no detectable differences from normal .
obsolete .a cell phenotype that shows no detectable differences from normal during exponential growth .
a gene expression phenotype in which regulation of transcription during the g1 / s phase of the cell cycle is abnormal .
obsolete .multiple different phenotypes due to a single mutation .
a cell phenotype in which cells do not respond normally to reactive oxygen species ,  resulting in accumulation of oxidative damage including dna damage ,  during g0 phase .
a gene expression phenotype in which regulation of translation in response to stress is abnormal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of a microtubule - destabilizing substance than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to dna damage .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a genotoxin ,  any chemical compound that can act to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ultraviolet light .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a microtubule - destabilizing substance .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to osmotic stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a salt stress .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell fails to form a septum .
an rna metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rnas transcribed from the centromere outer repeat region are absent .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the duration of m phase of the mitotic cell cycle is longer than normal .
obsolete .a cell cycle phenotype in which cells are viable only if a spindle checkpoint functions normally .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitotic spindle forms with microtubules emanating from only one pole .
a cell population phenotype in which cell population growth is decreased following spore germination ,  resulting in the formation of a smaller colony than normal in a given amount of time .
obsolete .a sporulation phenotype in which azygotic asci form following conjugation and subsequent sporulation .
a cellular process phenotype in which conjugation does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more ,  but smaller ,  vacuoles than normal .
obsolete .a viability phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is able to survive at a high temperature .
a chromosome segregation phenotype in which chromosomes are broken during mitotic chromosome segregation .
a mitosis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes unequal mitotic sister chromatid segregation ,  and as a result the nucleus divides unequally to produce one daughter nucleus that is larger than the other .
a cell population phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a population of cells grow poorly in medium that has a low concentration of manganese  ( mn2 +  )  .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  composition or morphology of a cell part is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype that affects the regulation of gene expression .
a gene expression phenotype that affects the regulation of translation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle that affects dna - dependent transcription .
a cellular process phenotype that affects translation .
a cellular process phenotype that affects any nucleic acid metabolic process .
a cellular process phenotype that affects any dna metabolic process .
a cellular process phenotype that affects any rna metabolic process .
a cellular process phenotype that affects cytoskeleton organization .
a cellular process phenotype that affects the organization of the actin cytoskeleton .
a cellular process phenotype that affects the organization of the microtubule cytoskeleton .
a cellular process phenotype that affects a response to a stimulus .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells .
a phenotype that affects a biological process .
a biological process phenotype that affects conjugation .
a conjugation phenotype in which a cell's response to mating pheromone is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a stress .
a cellular process phenotype in which spore germination is abnormal .
a viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive ,  and is smaller than normal .
a viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive ,  and has an abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a normal germ tube ,  but does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a normal germ tube ,  but does not septate or go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a normal germ tube ,  and undergoes septation ,  but does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a germ tube with abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube ,  and does not go on to give rise to a viable cell population .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube ,  and undergoes septation ,  but does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a viability phenotype in which a spore germinates but fails to produce dividing cells that can survive under normal conditions .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a population contains cells with more than one phenotype ,  usually different morphologies .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which a microcolony forms ,  all cells in the population are inviable ,  some cells may divide ,  and some cells are longer than normal .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of spores and germinated spores most of which go on to divide once or twice .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology  ( i .e .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of ungerminated spores and germinated spores that fail to divide .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the onset of anaphase of the mitotic cell cycle begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during a mitotic or meiotic nuclear division is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the stable attachment of sister chromatids to microtubules emanating from opposite poles of the mitotic spindle during metaphase plate congression is abnormal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of trichostatin a than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle that affects protein metabolism in the cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein modification is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle that affects histone modification .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone acetylation occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone acetylation occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins later than normal .
a phenotype that affects a process of cellular component organization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of cellular component organization at the cellular level is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of cellular component assembly at the cellular level is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitosis is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the position or morphology of the mitotic spindle is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a septum in an abnormal location .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single functional copy of a gene does not provide sufficient normal function in a diploid cell .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single functional copy of a gene provides sufficient normal function in a diploid cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of cellular respiration is decreased .
a phenotype in which the concentration of hydrogen sulfide released into the growth medium by cells is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus is larger than normal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of protein from the nucleus is abnormal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which spores have an abnormally low volume .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a spore has a larger volume than normal .
a cell phenotype characterized by altered spore morphology ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the golgi apparatus is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the actin cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the fungal - type cell wall is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the endomembrane system is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the endoplasmic reticulum is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of lipid droplets is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the mating projection is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells do not form mating projections .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the mitochondrion is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rna localization is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the nucleolus is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the peroxisome is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells do not contain peroxisomes .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the plasma membrane is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus is smaller than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of rna localization is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the fungal - type vacuole is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells do not contain vacuoles .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rna modification is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rna modification does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of rna modification is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of rna modification is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of rna modification is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which programmed cell death by apoptosis does not occur .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of apoptosis is decreased .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of apoptosis is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which apoptosis is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which macroautophagy does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of macroautophagy is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of macroautophagy is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which macroautophagy begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of macroautophagy is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which macroautophagy is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which biofilm formation does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of biofilm formation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of biofilm formation is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which traversing the start control point of the mitotic cell cycle is arrested .
a cellular process phenotype in which traversing the start control point of the mitotic cell cycle begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which traversing the start control point of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the metaphase / anaphase transition under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the g2 / m transition ,  under conditions where arrest is not a normal occurrence .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of progression through the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle is increased .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle is increased .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell cycle progression is arrested under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of one or more cell cycle phases is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which one or more cell cycle phase transitions begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of one or more cell cycle phases is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic cell cycle progression is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which plasma membrane fusion involved in cytogamy is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which plasma membrane fusion involved in cytogamy does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which plasma membrane fusion involved in cytogamy is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic sister chromatid segregation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid separation begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic cytokinesis does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitotic cytokinesis is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic cytokinesis is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic cytokinesis begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which endocytosis does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of endocytosis is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of endocytosis is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which endocytosis begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of endocytosis is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which endocytosis is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the g1 to g0 transition is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the g1 to g0 transition does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the g0 to g1 transition begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which fermentation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which fermentation does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of fermentation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of fermentation is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which fermentation is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to antimycin a .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of antimycin than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing glycerol and ethanol as the carbon sources .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of a protein in a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested when cells have replicated genomic dna ,  under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in g1 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which any process of protein complex assembly at the cellular level is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mcm complex assembly is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total amount of dna in a cell is lower than normal .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which a microcolony forms ,  all cells in the population are inviable ,  and some cells are longer and other cells smaller than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites of double - strand breaks in dna is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone acetylation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone methylation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between centromeres of sister chromatids is abnormal during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between centromeres of sister chromatids is decreased during mitosis .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which flocculation does not occur .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which flocculation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of intracellular transport is decreased .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of invasive growth is decreased .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of invasive growth is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mating type switching is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mating type switching does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mating type switching is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mating type switching is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mating type switching is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic recombination is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which one or both meiotic nuclear division ( s )  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which one or both meiotic nuclear division ( s )  is arrested under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of one or both meiotic nuclear division ( s )  is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which one or both meiotic nuclear division ( s )  begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the meiotic nuclear divisions are normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which one or both meiotic nuclear division ( s )  begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic recombination is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic recombination is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic recombination is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which reciprocal meiotic recombination does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of reciprocal meiotic recombination is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which reciprocal meiotic recombination begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of reciprocal meiotic recombination is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which reciprocal meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrion distribution is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial genome maintenance is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial genome maintenance does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial genome maintenance is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial genome maintenance is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial genome maintenance is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial transport is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitochondrial transport is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial transport is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitophagy does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitophagy is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitophagy is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of necrotic cell death is decreased .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of necrotic cell death is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear export is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear export does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of nuclear export is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear export is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which karyogamy involved in conjugation with cellular fusion is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which karyogamy involved in conjugation with cellular fusion does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of karyogamy involved in conjugation with cellular fusion is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which karyogamy involved in conjugation with cellular fusion begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear import does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of nuclear import is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear import is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which nucleus localization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of oxidative phosphorylation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of oxidative phosphorylation is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which peroxisome localization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which peroxisomal transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which peroxisomal transport does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of peroxisomal transport is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which pexophagy does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of pexophagy is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of pexophagy is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which pexophagy begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which peroxisome degradation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to pheromone is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic cell cycle arrest in response to pheromone does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic cell cycle arrest in response to pheromone is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic cell cycle arrest in response to pheromone is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which spindle pole body localization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which spindle pole body localization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein secretion is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein secretion does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein secretion is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein secretion is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein transport is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of protein transport is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein modification does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein modification is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein modification begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein modification is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein modification processes is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein modification is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which pseudohyphal growth is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which pseudohyphal growth does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of pseudohyphal growth is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of pseudohyphal growth is increased during a cellular hyperosmotic response .
a cell population phenotype in which pseudohyphal growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle after pheromone arrest is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle after pheromone arrest does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle after pheromone arrest is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle after pheromone arrest is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle after pheromone arrest is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle after pheromone arrest is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cellular respiration does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of cellular respiration is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of cellular respiration is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cellular respiration is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of septum assembly is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mating projection assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mating projection assembly does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mating projection assembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mating projection assembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mating projection assembly is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which mating projection assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which gene silencing is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which gene silencing does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of gene silencing is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of gene silencing is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which gene silencing is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which spore germination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore wall biogenesis is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of spore germination is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of spore germination is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore formation does not occur .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of ascospore formation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore wall biogenesis does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore wall assembly does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore formation begins later than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of ascospore formation is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of ascospore formation is increased ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore formation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transposition is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transposition does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of transposition is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of transposition is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of transposition is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transposition is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuolar transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of vacuolar transport is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of vacuolar transport is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuolar transport begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuolar transport is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of g1 phase of a mitotic cell cycle is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through m phase of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in m phase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is abnormally arrested in s phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through mitotic anaphase is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through anaphase of mitosis is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in anaphase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in metaphase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the onset of metaphase of mitosis begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in telophase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a transcription regulation phenotype in which any process of positive regulation of transcription is abnormal .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which any process of negative regulation of transcription is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which premeiotic dna replication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the initiation of premeiotic dna replication is abnormal .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which programmed cell death by apoptosis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which biofilm formation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype that affects progression of the mitotic or meiotic cell cycle ,  or regulation of cell cycle progression .
a cellular process phenotype that affects mitochondrial translation .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to g418 .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome does not occur .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize leucine ,  and therefore requires leucine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a cell population phenotype in which a cell population in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle grows at a faster rate than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a cell population in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle grows at a faster rate than normal in a medium containing glucose as the carbon source .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septum assembly begins later than normal .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing is abnormal at the centromere central core .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of chromosome organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of chromatin organization is abnormal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which a mitotic dna integrity checkpoint is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cellular protein localization is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell has an abnormally low volume .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell has a larger volume than normal .
an inviable phenotype in which a vegetative cell lyses ,  i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable but has an abnormally low volume .
a cell population phenotype in which the septation index is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of septum assembly is longer than normal .
a phenotype that affects a molecular function such as binding or catalytic activity .
a phenotype that affects dna binding .
a phenotype that affects a catalytic activity .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding by a gene product is abnormal ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding by a gene product is increased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate and other catalytic properties of a specified catalytic activity are normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate or other catalytic property of a specified catalytic activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified catalytic activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified catalytic activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which a specified catalytic activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a peptidase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a peptidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a peptidase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a peptidase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which a peptidase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid separation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic sister chromatid separation at the rdna repeat regions is abnormal .
a cell phenotype characterized by normal cell morphology  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septum assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein targeting is abnormal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein targeting to the vacuole is abnormal .
a transport phenotype in which protein localization to the prospore membrane is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosomes are not segregated equally to both spindle poles in the first meiotic nuclear division .
a phenotype that affects a developmental process .
a developmental process phenotype in which ascus development is abnormal .
a sporulation phenotype that results in the formation of an ascus that has abnormal morphology and contains two diploid spores .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of a molecular function is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which the basal activity of an enzyme is increased relative to normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing glycerol as the carbon source .
obsolete .a cellular response phenotype in which pheromone - responsive positive regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter occurs at a lower level of pheromone than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of peptide - n4 -  ( n - acetyl - beta - glucosaminyl ) asparagine amidase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of peptide - n4 -  ( n - acetyl - beta - glucosaminyl ) asparagine amidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of peptide - n4 -  ( n - acetyl - beta - glucosaminyl ) asparagine amidase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an oxidoreductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an oxidoreductase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 1 , n6 - ethenoadenine n - glycosylase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 1 , n6 - ethenoadenine n - glycosylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 1 , n6 - ethenoadenine n - glycosylase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna - 1 , n6 - ethenoadenine n - glycosylase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 1 , n6 - ethenoadenine n - glycosylase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 7 - methylguanine glycosylase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 7 - methylguanine glycosylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 7 - methylguanine glycosylase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna - 7 - methylguanine glycosylase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 7 - methylguanine glycosylase activity is increased .
a cellular response phenotype in which caffeine does not override the dna damage checkpoint  ( as it does in wild type cells )  ,  allowing mitotic cell cycle arrest to occur .
a phenotype that protein affects the binding of one protein to another .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another does not occur .
a phenotype in which a specific molecular function is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a specific molecular function is abnormal .
a biological process phenotype in which the observed mating efficiency is lower than normal .
a cell growth phenotype in which cell population growth is decreased relative to normal under nitrogen starvation conditions ,  such as in nitrogen - deficient minimal medium .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation ,  which normally occurs in g1 phase ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation occurs in g1 phase ,  but its occurrence is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation occurs in g1 phase ,  but begins later than normal .
a stress response phenotype in which the response to starvation for one or more nutrients is abnormal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to leptomycin b .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to k - 252a .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to valinomycin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to actinomycin d . cells stop growing  ( and may die )  at a concentration of actinomycin d that allows wild type cells to grow .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of fatty acid synthase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of fatty acid synthase activity is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to a ph stimulus is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to acidic ph .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to alkaline ph .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of n - methyl - n' - nitro - n - nitrosoguanidine than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of methyl methanesulfonate than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to oxidative stress .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly and distribution of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments does not occur normally .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring assembly begins later than normal .
a spindle phenotype in which the spindle is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is shorter than normal .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is longer than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the structure of the meiotic spindle is abnormal .
a spindle phenotype in which the meiotic spindle is shorter than normal .
a spindle phenotype in which the meiotic spindle is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which assembly of the meiotic spindle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype that affects the occurrence of pigment accumulation in a cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of cellular pigment accumulation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of cellular pigment accumulation is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cortical patches is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch internalization is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cortical patches is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch internalization begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch internalization does not occur .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize adenine ,  and therefore requires adenine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to mercury ions .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to selenite  (  ( seo3 ) 2 -  )  ions .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to silver ions .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to nickel ions .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of selenate ions than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione gamma - glutamylcysteinyltransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione gamma - glutamylcysteinyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione gamma - glutamylcysteinyltransferase activity is decreased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to bafilomycin a1 .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to nigericin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to bismuth ions .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to lead ions .
a cellular process phenotype in which conjugation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a larger than normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cadmium ions than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cycloheximide than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of leptomycin b than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of n - ethylmaleimide than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of staurosporine than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of valinomycin than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the nuclear envelope is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nuclear inner membrane forms branched structures that extend into the nuclear lumen .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear pore localization is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which perforations or gaps  ( other than nuclear pores )  are present in the nuclear envelope .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which pre - replicative complex assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of pre - replicative complex assembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break repair is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break repair begins later than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is longer than normal and has an abnormal shape featuring a constriction at the center of the cell ,  corresponding to the cell division site .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein is observed in a particular location where it is not normally found .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the cytoplasm is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleus is observed there .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to formamide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which plasmids are lost at a higher frequency than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 1 - na - pp1 .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch organization is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of actin cortical patches is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glycerol dehydrogenase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glycerol dehydrogenase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which glycerol dehydrogenase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glycerol dehydrogenase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glycerol dehydrogenase activity is increased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tert - butyl hydroperoxide  ( tbhp or t - booh )  .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to anisomycin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to n , n , n' , n' - tetramethyldiazene - 1 , 2 - dicarboxamide ,  also known as diamide .
a phenotype in which the concentration of a substance released into the growth medium by cells is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cytoskeleton organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cytoskeleton organization is abnormal .
a phenotype in which the concentration of glycerone  ( also called 1 , 3 - dihydroxypropan - 2 - one ,  dihydroxyacetone ,  or dha )  released into the growth medium by cells is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which endomembrane system organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which golgi organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which kinetochore organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which lipid droplet organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrion organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleus organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which peroxisome organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuole organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which plasma membrane organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleolus organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear envelope organization is abnormal .
a phenotype in which the concentration of a substance released into the growth medium by cells is lower than normal .
a phenotype in which the concentration of a peptide pheromone released into the growth medium by cells is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which the concentration of m - factor ,  the mating pheromone produced by mating type minus cells ,  released into the growth medium is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which the concentration of p - factor ,  the mating pheromone produced by mating type plus cells ,  released into the growth medium is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which the concentration of a peptide pheromone released into the growth medium by cells is lower than normal .
a phenotype in which the concentration of m - factor ,  the mating pheromone produced by mating type minus cells ,  released into the growth medium is lower than normal .
a phenotype in which the concentration of p - factor ,  the mating pheromone produced by mating type plus cells ,  released into the growth medium is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which one or more cell cycle phase transitions begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which entry into the g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle  ( exit from mitosis )  begins earlier than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cisplatin than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of vanadate ions  ( vo4 ( 3 -  )  )  than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of actinomycin d than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in any part of interphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and is inviable .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sodium dodecyl sulfate  ( sds )  .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ethanol .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 1 , 4 - dithiothreitol  ( dtt )  .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to mercaptoethanol .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein degradation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is increased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of one or more chromosomes is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in the cytoplasm of a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to a stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to osmotic stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to a salt stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome positioning is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome positioning in regions of euchromatin is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome positioning in regions of heterochromatin is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome positioning is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome positioning in regions of euchromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome positioning in regions of heterochromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cellular metabolic process is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cellular metabolic process is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone methylation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone methylation occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone methylation occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which intracellular mitochondrion distribution ,  the process that results in the spatial arrangement of mitochondria in a cell ,  is abnormal .
an abnormal intracellular mitochondrion distribution phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria cluster together more than normal with a cluster distal to one or both sides of the nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial fission ,  the division of a mitochondrion into two or more separate compartments ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial fusion ,  the merging of two or more separate mitochondria into a single compartment ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule cytoskeleton organization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which linear element assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule polymerization or depolymerization ,  by the addition or removal of tubulin dimers respectively ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule polymerization or depolymerization ,  by the addition or removal of tubulin dimers respectively ,  occurs to a lesser extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrion inheritance is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrion inheritance is abolished ,  resulting in the formation of a daughter cell that lacks mitochondria .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which some cells in a population are viable and others are inviable .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to linear elements is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in the cell nucleus is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a sporulation phenotype that results in the formation of an ascus that contains spores of non - uniform size and dna content .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate - ammonia ligase  ( also known as glutamine synthetase )  activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyruvate dehydrogenase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyruvate dehydrogenase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of citrate  ( si )  - synthase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of citrate  ( si )  - synthase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of citrate  ( si )  - synthase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of aconitate hydratase  ( also known as aconitase )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of aconitate hydratase  ( also known as aconitase )  activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of isocitrate dehydrogenase  ( nad +  )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of isocitrate dehydrogenase  ( nad +  )  activity is increased .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of anisomycin than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromosomes are not segregated equally to both spindle poles in a meiotic nuclear division .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a normal volume .
a cellular process phenotype in which horsetail movement does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the microtubule cytoskeleton is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the microtubule cytoskeleton is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the microtubule cytoskeleton does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cortical microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cortical microtubule cytoskeleton is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cortical microtubule cytoskeleton is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cortical microtubule cytoskeleton during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which nucleus localization is abnormal in a prospore .
a cell phenotype characterized by normal spore morphology ,  i .e .
a viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive ,  and has a normal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a normal volume .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a sphere ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a sphere ,  and has a normal volume .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell does not contain a septum .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell does not contain a septum and is elongated .
a cell morphology in which a vegetative cell is inviable and has an abnormally low volume .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more vacuoles than normal .
a cellular response phenotype in which the cellular response to a chemical stimulus is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to a stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to mitomycin c . cells stop growing  ( and may die )  at a concentration of mitomycin c that allows wild type cells to grow .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to copper ions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to zinc ions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to mercury ions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to selenite ions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to silver ions is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate dehydrogenase activity using nad +  as a cofactor is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate dehydrogenase activity using napd +  as a cofactor is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate dehydrogenase activity using napd +  as a cofactor is decreased .
a conjugation phenotype in which regulation of transcription in response to mating pheromone is abnormal .
obsolete .a cellular response phenotype in which pheromone - responsive positive regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter occurs only at a higher level of pheromone than normal .
obsolete .a cellular response phenotype in which pheromone - responsive positive regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter results in a higher - than - normal level of transcription at a given pheromone level .
obsolete .a cellular response phenotype in which pheromone - responsive positive regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter results in a lower - than - normal level of transcription at a given pheromone level .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to arsenic is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 - phosphate measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 - phosphate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which cell morphology  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which the cell tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a pear when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell becomes elongated ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the nucleus is larger than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested normally in g1 phase when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition ,  instead of the normal g1 phase ,  when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not undergo the normal two rounds of cell division prior to entering quiescence  ( g0 )  .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains more ,  but smaller ,  vacuoles than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which cells to resume growth normally upon exiting g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which dna is broken into small fragments when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more than one nucleus ,  is elongated ,  is inviable ,  and has an abnormal shape featuring a constriction at the center of the cell ,  corresponding to the cell division site .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitosis is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the actomyosin contractile ring is absent from the cell .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly and distribution of actin filaments and associated proteins does not occur ,  resulting in the failure to form an actomyosin contractile ring .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly and distribution of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells do not contain filamentous actin structures ,  such as cortical patches or dots ,  or rings .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize uracil ,  and therefore requires uracil in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a cellular process phenotype in which cellular membrane organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cellular membrane organization is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate measured in a cell differs from normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches are localized to only one end of a cell .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle phenotype that affects or involves the normal or abnormal occurrence of cell cycle arrest .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic cell cycle progression is arrested under conditions where arrest normally occurs .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs is abnormal  ( does not occur ,  or occurs abnormally )  .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested normally at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in any part of interphase ,  under conditions where arrest is not a normal occurrence .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of canavanine than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites of single - strand breaks in dna is greater than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of camptothecin than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break repair is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of tunicamycin than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the fungal - type cell wall is thicker than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the fungal - type cell wall is delaminated ,  i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of thiamine diphosphokinase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of thiamine diphosphokinase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of thiamine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology that undergoes one or two rounds of cell division ,  and then dies .
a biological process phenotype in which the observed mating efficiency is higher than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of acid phosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of acid phosphatase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells enter mitosis earlier ,  relative to cell size or dna integrity checkpoint status ,  than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell proceeds through the mitotic metaphase / anaphase transition in the presence of an uncorrected problem  ( such as chromosome structure or kinetochore attachment )  ,  and as a result undergoes abnormal nuclear division and subsequently dies .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell enters mitosis normally ,  in that the spindle forms normally and chromosomes condense normally ,  but then undergoes septation despite abnormal chromosome segregation ,  giving rise to a cut phenotype .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which l - arginine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of one or more amino acids into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of one or more amino acids into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of glutamate into the cell is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of glutamate into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of glutamine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of glutamine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of glycine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of glycine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of threonine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of threonine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of tyrosine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of tyrosine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of one or more mitotic cell cycle phases is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of one or more mitotic cell cycle phases is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transport is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which myo - inositol import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of myo - inositol into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of myo - inositol into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a polysaccharide measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of beta - d - glucan measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of galactomannan measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a polysaccharide measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of alpha - d - glucan measured in the cell wall is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of beta - d - glucan measured in the cell wall is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a polysaccharide measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of alpha - d - glucan measured in the cell wall is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a polysaccharide measured in a cell differs from normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a glucosyltransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a glucosyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a glucosyltransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a glucosyltransferase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to heat shock .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to heat shock is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype that affects the binding of a gene product to another substance .
a molecular function phenotype in which chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at a replication origin by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding at a replication origin by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell that is subject to nitrogen starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to amitrole .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 4 - nitroquinoline n - oxide .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide is higher than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of hydrogen peroxide than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of catalase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which catalase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione - disulfide reductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione - disulfide reductase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione - disulfide reductase activity is increased .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of menadione than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glutathione disulfide  ( gssg )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation occurs in g1 phase ,  but begins earlier than normal .
a cellular response phenotype in which the cellular response to a pheromone is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype in which the cellular response to m - factor is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype in which the cellular response to p - factor is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which cell morphology  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which the cell tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a pear in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which cell shape is altered ,  but cell size remains normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is longer ,  and has a greater length:diameter ratio ,  than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a spore is longer than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has normal volume and dimensions .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a normal shape .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell has an abnormal shape .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell has a volume or dimensions that differ from normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the septation index is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype in which dna replication is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 18s ribosomal rna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of the 35s rrna primary transcript measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any 27s rrna precursor measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of the mature 25s rrna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of the mature 5 .8s rrna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of leucine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of leucine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a conjugation phenotype in which regulation of transcription in response to mating pheromone is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of man8glcnac2 measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of man9glcnac2 measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of man8glcnac2 measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of man9glcnac2 measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of misfolded glycoprotein degradation is decreased .
a biological process phenotype in which the observed mating efficiency is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to methylamine .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition when the cell is subject to starvation for one or more nutrients .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of methylamine measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of methylamine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which the changes that take place in growth medium ,  due to metabolism ,  secretion ,  etc .
a phenotype in which cells cause the ph of their growth medium to decrease by a greater amount than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a cell population in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle grows at a faster rate than normal in a medium with higher than standard ph .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the measured intracellular ph is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the measured intracellular ph is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal under aerobic conditions and in a medium containing raffinose as the carbon source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell that is exposed to anaerobic conditions fails to grow upon being returned to aerobic conditions ,  and eventually dies .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of atpase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of atpase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which proton  ( h +  )  transport is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of methionine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the measured intracellular ph is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which hypermethylation of the 7 -  ( mono ) methylguanosine  ( m ( 7 ) g )  cap structure at the 2' position of the guanosine residue to form a 2 , 2 , 7 - trimethylguanosine cap structure is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which hypermethylation of the 7 -  ( mono ) methylguanosine  ( m ( 7 ) g )  cap structure at the 2' position of the guanosine residue to form a 2 , 2 , 7 - trimethylguanosine cap structure is abolished .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing sucrose as the carbon source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing trehalose as the carbon source .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells in a culture in stationary phase are deprived of nitrogen .
a cell phenotype in which a protein does not localize to ,  and is therefore absent from ,  a place where it is normally found in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of maltose alpha - glucosidase  ( also known as maltase )  activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an alpha - glucosidase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an alpha - glucosidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of maltose alpha - glucosidase  ( also known as maltase )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an alpha - glucosidase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of maltose alpha - glucosidase  ( also known as maltase )  activity is decreased .
a cell population phenotype in which a population reaches stationary phase at ,  and maintains ,  a lower cell density than wild type .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to calcofluor white .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cilofungin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to one or more enzymes that degrades cell wall polysaccharides .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vegetative cell growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of beta - d - glucan measured in the cell is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of galactomannan measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of alpha - d - glucan measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a stress response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the response to calcium starvation is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to calcium ion starvation .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to calcium starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype that reflects increased occurrence of coflocculation .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells enter mitosis earlier or later than normal ,  relative to cell size or dna integrity checkpoint status .
a molecular function phenotype in which alpha - glucosidase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which maltase activity is absent .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to raffinose .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a polysaccharide measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glc2man9glcnac2 measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glc3man9glcnac measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glc1man9glcnac2 measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of man8glcnac2 measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to potassium chloride .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of a protein complex at the cellular level is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of a saga complex onto chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which nuclear import is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which nuclear export does not occur when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to nitrogen starvation is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to a pheromone is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ratio of the nuclear volume to the total cell volume is in the same range as wild type  ( approximately 0 .076 - 0 .089 )  .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains two nuclei .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two nuclei and more than one septum .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two nuclei and one septum .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains a single septum .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and contains a single nucleus and an asymmetrically located septum .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the cytoplasm is observed there ,  during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in vegetative growth phase of the life cycle ,  in which the amount of protein measured in the cell nucleus is higher than normal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the cell cortex is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the cell cortex is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the cell cortex is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the cell cortex are normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  composition or morphology of a cell part is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is slower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell growth in a cell population occurs to a lower extent than normal ,  i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to adenine starvation is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to thiamine is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to thiamine starvation is lower than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cobalt ions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the probability that a dna replication will initiate at a particular replication origin is higher than in wild type .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the probability that a dna replication will initiate at a particular replication origin is lower than in wild type .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two or more nuclei and more than one septum per cell .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is longer than normal ,  has three or more nuclei and two or more septa ,  and the septa are not grouped together ,  but are located so as to form separate compartments with a single nucleus in each .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two or more nuclei and more than one septum ,  and the septa are grouped together between two compartments ,  one or more of which may contain multiple nuclei .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to the level of oxygen is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to hypoxia is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to the level of oxygen is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to hypoxia is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hypoxia is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hypoxia is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitotic cytokinesis is decreased during a cellular hyperosmotic response .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal ,  during a cellular hyperosmotic response .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is branched and septated ,  and longer than normal ,  during a cellular hyperosmotic response .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the establishment or maintenance of cell polarity is abnormal during a cellular hyperosmotic response .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular hyperosmotic response .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear export does not occur when the cell is subject to a decrease in the concentration of salt  ( particularly but not exclusively sodium and chloride ions )  in the environment .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation results in the separation of chromosomes into two distinct unequal masses ,  located at or near the ends of an elongated mitotic spindle .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes ;  some ,  but not all ,  dna may be moved towards the ends of an elongated mitotic spindle .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes ,  and dna becomes spread into an indistinct mass along much of the length of the mitotic spindle .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic spindle elongation begins ,  but mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes ,  and dna remains in a single mass at or near the midpoint of the mitotic spindle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to hypoxia is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to hypoxia .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mcm complex assembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mcm complex assembly is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mcm complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to oxidative stress is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to oxidative stress is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of chromatin organization is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to nitrogen starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylserine measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylethanolamine measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phosphoinositide measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phospholipid measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phospholipid measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phospholipid measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phosphoinositide measured in a cell differs from normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of cdp - diacylglycerol - serine o - phosphatidyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of cdp - diacylglycerol - serine o - phosphatidyltransferase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell wall biogenesis is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch localization is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of palmitoyl - coa ligase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of oleoyl - coa ligase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of palmitoyl - coa ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of palmitoyl - coa ligase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which palmitoyl - coa ligase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of oleoyl - coa ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which oleoyl - coa ligase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of oleoyl - coa ligase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of myristoyl - coa ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of myristoyl - coa ligase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of any long - chain fatty acid - coa ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which long - chain fatty acid - coa ligase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of long - chain fatty acid - coa ligase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of long - chain fatty acid - coa ligase activity is increased .
a cell population phenotype in which a larger than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which plasmids are lost at a lower frequency than normal .
a normal phenotype that is observed when cells are in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of a cell part is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the cell cortex are normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype characterized by normal cell morphology  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype in which the cellular response to a chemical stimulus is normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype that is observed at the level of an individual cell ,  when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the cell cycle .
a phenotype that affects any physical object quality ,  such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of a cell or a cellular component in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  morphology ,  or other physical characteristic of a cell part is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which cytoskeleton organization is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype that affects a cellular process in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a gene expression phenotype in which regulation of translation in response to stress is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a regulation phenotype that affects the regulation of gene expression in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype that affects the regulation of a molecular function ,  biological process ,  or biological quality in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a gene expression phenotype that affects the regulation of dna - dependent transcription in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell process phenotype that affects a transport process in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of a structure or substance in a cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which nucleus localization is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a stress response phenotype in which the response to starvation for one or more nutrients is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a stress response phenotype in which a cellular response to oxidative stress is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular response phenotype in which a cellular response to stress is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype that affects a response to a stimulus in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which dna replication is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of nuclear dna replication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which dna recombination is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype that affects any dna metabolic process in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype that affects any nucleic acid metabolic process in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype that affects metabolism in the cell in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype that affects the organization of the microtubule cytoskeleton in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which cellular membrane organization is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of chromatin organization is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of cellular component organization at the cellular level is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of cellular component assembly at the cellular level is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell population phenotype in which the growth of a population of cells is decreased relative to normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype in which a population of cells grows normally  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype that affects the rate or extent of cell population growth in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of one or more amino acids into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of one or more amino acids into the cell is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cellular metabolic process is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actomyosin contractile ring contraction is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cytoskeleton organization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytokinesis is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which contractile ring assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms an actomyosin contractile ring in an abnormal location .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein in a cell is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex is abolished .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex of a spore is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex of a spore is abolished .
a cell phenotype in which a protein does not localize to ,  and is therefore absent from ,  a place where it is normally found .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is higher than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of tacrolimus than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of dna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which a protein kinase activity is absent .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that enters the cell cycle but then undergoes cell cycle arrest with replicated dna ,  and eventually dies .
a cell phenotype in which non - sporulating diploid cells become haploid ,  without undergoing meiosis ,  at a higher frequency than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells are grown at a temperature higher than standard .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is lower than normal during or just after spore germination .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleus localization is normal .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum that is not perpendicular to the long axis of the cell .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum closer to the new end of the cell  ( when the new end is not yet growing )  ,  instead of at the midpoint of the long axis .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of vegetative cell growth is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the activation of monopolar cell growth ,  i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the activation of monopolar cell growth may occur at either the new or old end of the cell ,  instead of exclusively at the old end ,  following cell division .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the activation of monopolar cell growth ,  i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches are localized to only the old end of a cell following cell division .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches are localized to only one end of a cell following cell division ;  patches may localize to either the old or the new end .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  and morphology of cytoplasmic microtubules is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is normal  ( i .e .
a cell adhesion phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells adhere to a substrate more strongly or to a greater extent than normal .
a colony morphology phenotype in which the outline of a colony growing on a solid surface is not symmetrical .
a colony morphology phenotype in which a colony growing on a solid surface has an abnormally glossy surface .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum that is thicker than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing glucose as the carbon source .
a cell phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to heat shock .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of sulfide  ( s2 -  ,  also called acid labile sulfide )  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of sulfide  ( s2 -  ,  also called acid labile sulfide )  measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of sulfide  ( s2 -  ,  also called acid labile sulfide )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of sulfide  ( s2 -  ,  also called acid labile sulfide )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sulfide  ( s2 -  )  .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sulfide:quinone oxidoreductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sulfide:quinone oxidoreductase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms an equatorial microtubule organizing center in an abnormal location .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype in which a population of cells grows at the same rate as wild type .
a cell population phenotype in which a population of cells grow at the same rate as wild type in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein processing is abnormal .
a cellular metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the observed occurrence of protein processing is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein targeting to the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication is abnormal ,  resulting in one or more rounds of rereplication of the entire genome .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication is abnormal ,  resulting in rereplication of part of the genome .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication is abnormal ,  resulting in a single round of rereplication of the entire genome ,  which takes place more slowly than normal replication .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell has a larger volume ,  greater length ,  greater diameter ,  and greater length:diameter ratio than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested before cells have replicated genomic dna ,  under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of the antibiotic dio - 9 than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of ethidium bromide than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of decamethylenediguanidine than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of n , n' -  ( p - xylylidene ) bis - aminoguanidine 2hcl than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein complex is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of the saga complex to chromatin at promoters is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is subject to heat shock .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to cold .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to freezing .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to water deprivation .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of ethanol than normal .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to water deprivation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress is higher than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tunicamycin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the level of transcription from a calcineurin - dependent response element  ( cdre )  - containing promoter is higher than normal in the absence of a calcium ion stimulus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a calcineurin - dependent response element  ( cdre )  - containing promoter is increased following a calcium ion stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the intracellular calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  concentration briefly increases normally immediately following an extracellular ca2 +  stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the intracellular calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  concentration briefly increases abnormally ,  or does not change ,  immediately following an extracellular ca2 +  stimulus .
obsolete .a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the intracellular calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  concentration briefly increases to a greater extent than normal immediately following an extracellular ca2 +  stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the intracellular calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  concentration briefly increases to a lesser extent than normal immediately following an extracellular ca2 +  stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the intracellular calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  concentration does not increase immediately following an extracellular ca2 +  stimulus .
obsolete .a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the steady - state intracellular calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  concentration increases normally following an extracellular ca2 +  stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the steady - state intracellular calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  concentration increases abnormally ,  or does not change ,  following an extracellular ca2 +  stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the steady - state intracellular calcium ion  ( ca2 +  )  concentration increases to a greater extent than normal following an extracellular ca2 +  stimulus .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of tacrolimus than normal when the cells are subject to salt stress .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the mitotic spindle pole body is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic spindle pole body is broken into fragments .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of guanosine - diphosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of guanosine - diphosphatase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of guanosine - diphosphatase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity does not increase as a result of a nutrient stimulus .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity does not increase as a result of a heat stimulus .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity increases normally  ( i .e .
a chemical response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to a nutrient is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to oxidative stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to heat is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to protamine sulfate .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable in the phase of the life cycle during which wild type cells undergo vegetative growth .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and longer than normal ,  and has a greater length:diameter ratio than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable and longer than normal ,  and has a greater length:diameter ratio than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  and contains more than one nucleus apiece .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  and contains more than one septum .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable ,  is elongated ,  and contains more than one nucleus .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable ,  is elongated ,  and contain more than one septum .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in interphase .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cytochalasin b .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cytochalasin b than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to brefeldin a .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is higher than normal during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity is lower than normal during sporulation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is lower than normal during sporulation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylserine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylcholine measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is viable ,  cell shape is altered ,  and cell size remains normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable ,  cell shape is altered ,  and cell size remains normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is branched and elongated .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere tethering at the nuclear periphery is abnormal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of mercury ions than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of aluminium ions than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of diethyl maleate than normal .
obsolete .a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of gamma - glutamyltransferase activity is abnormal .
obsolete .a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of gamma - glutamyltransferase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glutathione  ( gsh )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of l - thialysine than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to l - thialysine .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of gtp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of gtp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of gtp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of gtpase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of gtpase activity is decreased .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the duration of s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to zinc starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of zinc ion measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of zinc ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of copper ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of iron ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of potassium ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of magnesium ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of manganese ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of molybdenum ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of nickel ion measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phosphorus - containing substance measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of sulfur measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to zinc ion is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to zinc ion starvation is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to hypoxia .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to zinc ions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to zinc ion starvation is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of zinc ion measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rna processing is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna processing is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the intermediate rnas formed during trna processing differ from wild type in size .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more nuclear envelope than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of ethionine than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of methionine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methionine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - threonine measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - citrulline measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - histidine measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - ornithine measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - threonine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - citrulline measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - histidine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - ornithine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glutathione  ( gsh )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing l - methionine as the nitrogen source .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to rapamycin is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitotic spindle has two poles but is otherwise structurally abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth does not occur ,  although cells remain viable .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing a dipeptide such as leu - ala as the nitrogen source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing a tetrapeptide such as leu - ser - lys - leu as the nitrogen source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuoles are more visible  ( usually by microscopy )  than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of lithium ions than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of lysine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of glutamate into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of lysine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of histidine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of arginine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of valine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of asparagine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of serine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which amino acid import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which valine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which glutamine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which asparagine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which isoleucine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the vacuole differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the cytosol differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the cytosol is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the cytosol is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - aspartate measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamate measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - ornithine measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - lysine measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - histidine measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - arginine measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - aspartate measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - valine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - isoleucine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - lysine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - arginine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - threonine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - serine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - asparagine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glycine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - alanine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - valine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - methionine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - isoleucine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - leucine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - tyrosine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - phenylalanine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of tryptophan measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - serine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glycine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - alanine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - methionine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - leucine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - tyrosine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - phenylalanine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of tryptophan measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of lithium ions measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of glutamate into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of l - glutamate into the cell is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of one or more amino acids into the cell is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of glutamate into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of lysine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of lysine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of lysine into the cell is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of lysine into the cell is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of arginine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of histidine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of asparagine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of serine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of valine into the cell is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell is higher than normal during a cellular response to glucose stimulus .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell is lower than normal during a cellular response to glucose stimulus .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell during glucose starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein processing is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the protein processing does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of gdp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of gdp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a gtpase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of l - aminoadipate - semialdehyde dehydrogenase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of l - aminoadipate - semialdehyde dehydrogenase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleus is observed there during s phase of a mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex is increased in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is abolished .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is abolished during the round of dna replication that precedes meiosis i .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is abolished during s phase of a meiotic cell cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity increases normally  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which mitotic spindle assembly does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to purvalanol a is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to purvalanol a is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to purvalanol a .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to reversine .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to hesperadin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a protease inhibitor .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a protein kinase inhibitor .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a topoisomerase inhibitor .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to capsazepine .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 4 , 4' , 4'' -  ( 4 - propylpyrazole - 1 , 3 , 5 - triyl ) trisphenol  ( ppt )  .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to the receptor agonist gw 7647 .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to bortezomib .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to nocodazole .
a cell cycle phenotype in which a specific mitotic cell cycle checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle phenotype in which a specific mitotic cell cycle checkpoint is abnormal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which any dna damage checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the incidence of mitotic cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is greater than in wild type under any specified set of conditions .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of iron - sulfur cluster binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of iron - sulfur cluster binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of iron - sulfur cluster binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is stabilized ,  i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of iron - sulfur cluster binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is stabilized ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of coenzyme q10 measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of malate into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of malate into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of succinate into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of succinate into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of malonic acid into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of malonic acid into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to lithium ions .
a phenotype in which a specific transport process is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of sodium ions out of a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of sodium ions out of a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more ferrichromes measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of gtp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - aspartate measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - cysteine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - serine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - cysteine measured in the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamate measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamine measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle pole body separation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which duplicated mitotic spindle pole bodies do not separate .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of an assembled iron - sulfur cluster from a scaffold protein to an acceptor protein is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of an assembled iron - sulfur cluster from a scaffold protein to an acceptor protein occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of pantothenate into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of pantothenate into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of pantothenate into the cell occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype in which large chromosomal rearrangements occur more frequently than in wild type cells .
a cell phenotype in which chromosomal translocations occur more frequently than in wild type cells .
a cell phenotype in which isochromosome formation occurs more frequently than in wild type cells .
a cell phenotype in which isochromosome formation occurs more frequently than in wild type cells ,  and in which the break point is located in the imr region in the majority of cases .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of biotin into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of biotin into the cell occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of biotin into the cell is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of nickel ions into a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of nickel ions into a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tacrolimus when the cell is subject to salt stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of homocitrate synthase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of homocitrate synthase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of homocitrate synthase activity is decreased .
a cell population phenotype in which a population of cells grow normally  ( i .e .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize lysine or methionine ,  and therefore requires lysine and methionine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize lysine or cysteine ,  and therefore requires lysine and cysteine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of protein phosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein phosphatase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein phosphatase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein phosphatase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation after cytokinesis is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle is normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna modification ,  the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within a trna molecule ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna methylation ,  the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to specific residues in a trna molecule ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to the c48 ,  c49 ,  c60 ,  c61 and c62 residues in a trna - asp molecule ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna modification ,  the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within a trna molecule ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna methylation ,  the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to specific residues in a trna molecule ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to the c48 ,  c49 ,  c60 ,  c61 and c62 residues in a trna - asp molecule ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to the c38 residue in a trna - asp molecule is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to the c38 residue in a trna - asp molecule ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a trna methyltransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a trna methyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a trna methyltransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which a trna methyltransferase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the eisosome filament is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the eisosome filament is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the eisosome filament is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the eisosome filament is shorter than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of one or more centromere ( s )  is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of centromeres and associated kinetochores into a cluster at the nuclear periphery is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus is constricted in the middle ,  resembling a figure 8 .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus is longer than normal and is constricted in the middle ,  resembling a figure 8 .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  membrane than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of sterol binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which sterol binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of sterol binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to all or part of the cytoplasm is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which plasmids are lost at the same frequency as in wild - type cells .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle pole body duplication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle pole body duplication does not occur ,  leaving the cell with a single spindle pole body later in the cell cycle than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell shows increased resistance to conditions that degrade the cell wall .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to purvalanol a is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the centromeric region of a chromosome is observed there .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which translation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of translation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is abolished ,  and the protein is instead detected distributed throughout the plasma membrane and / or cell cortex .
obsolete .a viability phenotype in which a cell is unable to survive at a high temperature at which wild - type cells survive .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is longer than normal during a cellular response to caffeine .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has more than one septum apiece during a cellular response to caffeine .
obsolete .an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell lyses ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which adenine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which guanine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of adenine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of adenine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of guanine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of guanine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 5 - phosphoribosyl diphosphate measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 5 - phosphoribosyl diphosphate measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to n - methyl - n' - nitro - n - nitrosoguanidine .
a cell growth phenotype in which cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which okazaki fragments ,  the dna segments produced by discontinuous synthesis of the lagging strand during dna replication ,  are present at greater levels than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphoribosylamine - glycine ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which phosphoribosylamine - glycine ligase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine cyclo - ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which phosphoribosylformylglycinamidine cyclo - ligase activity is absent .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a greater than normal number of cells in an originally homothallic  ( h90 )  population express p - specific information from the mat1 locus .
a cell phenotype in which one or more of the mating cassettes is duplicated .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to chlorpromazine .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to trifluoperazine .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of sodium ions out of a cell occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of sodium ions out of a cell does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of glucose into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of guanine into the cell does not occur .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing gluconate as the carbon source .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphoglycerate mutase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which phosphoglycerate mutase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphoglycerate mutase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphoglycerate mutase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the mitotic spindle pole body for a longer time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype in which minichromosomes are lost at the same frequency as in wild - type cells .
a cell phenotype in which minichromosomes are lost at a higher frequency than normal during the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of adenylyl cyclase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of adenylyl cyclase activity is increased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to rhizoxin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ansamitocin p - 3 .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which kinetochore organization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through anaphase a of mitosis is longer than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ferric - chelate reductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which ferric - chelate reductase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of ferric iron ions into a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of ferric iron ions into a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ferrous iron import is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to iron ion starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription does not occur when the cell is subject to iron ion starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to iron ions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of fatty acid synthase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype in which minichromosomes are lost at a higher frequency than normal .
a cell phenotype in which minichromosomes are lost at a higher frequency than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which minichromosomes are lost due to abnormal mitotic sister chromatid segregation at a higher frequency than normal .
a cell phenotype in which minichromosomes are lost due to abnormal meiotic chromosome segregation at a higher frequency than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which leptomycin b binding by a gene product does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which conjugation takes place in cells that are not subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of transcription by glucose  ( glucose repression )  is normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of adenylyl cyclase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mating projection assembly is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of adenylyl cyclase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which adenylyl cyclase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of centromeres and associated kinetochores into a cluster at the nuclear periphery is normal  ( i .e .
a cell adhesion phenotype in which cells adhere to other cells of compatible mating type more strongly or to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which adhesion of a cell to a substrate or another cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mating projection assembly takes place despite the absence of cells of the opposite mating type .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the preferential localization of a protein to either the old or new spindle pole body is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the preferential localization of a protein to either the old or new spindle pole body is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the preferential localization of a protein to either the old or new spindle pole body is decreased during mitotic anaphase ,  and the protein is instead symmetrically localized to both spbs .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable but has an abnormally low thickness or diameter .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable but is elongated and has an abnormally low thickness or diameter .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell has a smaller diameter  ( thickness ;  width )  than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division is abolished .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form actin filaments that are longer than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of one or more enzymes that degrades cell wall polysaccharides than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of calcofluor white than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to salt stress .
a cellular process phenotype in which haploid cells undergo meiotic nuclear division and attempt to sporulate .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in late meiosis in which the amount of rna transcribed from middle meiotic genes measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in late meiosis in which the amount of rna transcribed from middle meiotic genes measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a sporulation phenotype in which azygotic asci that contain more or fewer than four spores form following conjugation ,  diploid growth ,  and subsequent azygotic sporulation .
a sporulation phenotype in which asci that contain more or fewer than four spores form following conjugation and subsequent sporulation .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more cytoplasmic mrna processing bodies  ( p - bodies )  than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic mrna processing bodies  ( p - bodies )  are larger than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer cytoplasmic mrna processing bodies  ( p - bodies )  than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain fewer cytoplasmic mrna processing bodies  ( p - bodies )  than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain fewer cytoplasmic mrna processing bodies  ( p - bodies )  than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cytoplasmic mrna processing bodies  ( p - bodies )  are smaller than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic mrna processing bodies  ( p - bodies )  are smaller than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cytoplasmic mrna processing bodies  ( p - bodies )  are smaller than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cell population phenotype in which the septation index is normal  ( i .e .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the contractile ring collapses or disassembles upon initiation of contraction during anaphase b . septum formation typically does not occur in cells in which the contractile ring has collapsed .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number ,  structure ,  and orientation of microtubules in the mitotic spindle are normal  ( i .e .
a stress response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the response to thiamine starvation is abnormal .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize thiamine ,  and therefore requires thiamine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any unspliced or incompletely spliced mrna precursor measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein glycosylation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the glycosylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the glycosylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquitin ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which ubiquitin ligase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype in which prospore membrane formation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which prospore membrane formation does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains one nucleus ,  is longer than normal ,  and has a greater length:diameter ratio than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable ,  contains a single septum ,  has one nucleus in the septated cell ,  and is elongated .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus is broken into multiple small fragments that are smaller than a normal nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein export from nucleus is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein export from the nucleus does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein dephosphorylation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein dephosphorylation is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that enters the cell cycle but then undergoes cell cycle arrest ,  and eventually dies without completing cell division .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to gamma radiation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to hydroxyurea is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to ionizing radiation is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to hydroxyurea is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to gamma radiation is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to gamma radiation is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cellular response to hydroxyurea is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to hydroxyurea is abnormal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing glycerol as the carbon source .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of proton - transporting atp synthase activity by a rotational mechanism is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of proton - transporting atp synthase activity by a rotational mechanism is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of cytochrome - c oxidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of cytochrome - c oxidase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquinol - cytochrome - c reductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquinol - cytochrome - c reductase activity is decreased .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cerulenin than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a population in a culture remains in lag phase longer than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of microtubule binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which microtubule binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein secretion is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid separation does not occur .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in anaphase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur ,  and sister chromatids have not separated .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the cytosol is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in the cytosol is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion determined to be sequestered in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of calcium ions out of a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of calcium ions out of a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of calcium ions into a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of calcium ions into a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is formed in the shape of a sphere .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell during nitrogen starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna topoisomerase ii activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna topoisomerase ii activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which a protein phosphatase activity is absent .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of papulacandin b than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of aculeacin a than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of papulacandin d than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to aculeacin a .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan synthase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan synthase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan synthase activity is increased when cells are grown in medium containing papulacandin b .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan synthase activity is increased when cells are grown in medium containing aculeacin a .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation after cytokinesis is abnormal ,  and results in the formation of a chain of cells .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation after cytokinesis is abnormal ,  and results in the formation of a septated cell .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear division ,  cytokinesis and subsequent cell separation are abnormal ,  resulting in the formation of a cell in which an undivided mass of dna is located on one side of the septum .
a cell population phenotype in which a greater than normal number of cells contain 1c dna content .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  and morphology of cytoplasmic microtubules is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of galactomannan measured in the cell wall is greater than normal .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is not straight ,  but instead forms an angle where microtubules from opposite poles interdigitate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which excised introns in lariat form  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rna processing is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of dna replication is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of dna replication is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a phenotype that shows detectable differences from normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of 5 - fluorouracil than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ph higher than that of standard s . pombe growth media  ( about 5 .8 )  .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ph lower than that of standard s . pombe growth media  ( about 5 .8 )  .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that dies without completing cell division .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains a single septum ,  has one nucleus ,  is elongated ,  and is inviable .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains a single septum ,  has one nucleus ,  is swollen ,  is elongated ,  and is inviable .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable ,  and contains one nucleus and one or more septa .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has one or more nuclei and more than one septum ,  and the septa are grouped together between two compartments ,  one or more of which may contain one or multiple nuclei .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding at an rna polymerase ii proximal promoter by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain detectable microtubules of one or more types .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nuclear envelope has a lobate cross - section ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of iron ions measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosomes form a single ,  irregularly - shaped mass in the nucleus .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of aconitate hydratase  ( also known as aconitase )  activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of oxygen consumed by cells in a given time is lower than in wild type .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein encoded by genes normally induced during iron ion starvation measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein encoded by genes normally induced by exposure to hydrogen peroxide measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein encoded by genes normally repressed during iron ion starvation measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein oxidation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to iron ion starvation is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to iron ion starvation .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to oxygen .
a cellular process phenotype in which the mitotic cell cycle is arrested during g2 phase ,  before new end take - off  ( neto )  has occurred ,  under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain a detectable mitotic spindle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form telomeres that are longer than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches are localized throughout the cell cortex  ( rather than concentrated at the cell ends as in wild type cells )  .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of actin cortical patches are normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the septum is abnormal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  has no septum ,  and contains more than one nucleus .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  contains a septum with abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms an actomyosin contractile ring that is perpendicular to the long axis of the cell ,  but is not located at the midpoint of the long axis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms an actomyosin contractile ring that is not perpendicular to the long axis of the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more than one actomyosin contractile ring .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell divides asymmetrically ,  resulting in the formation of daughter cells that are not the same size .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cable organization is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of actin cables is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of actin cables is abnormal during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna topoisomerase type i activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna topoisomerase type i activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an endodeoxyribonuclease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an endodeoxyribonuclease activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which deadenylation - independent decapping of nuclear - transcribed mrna is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of deadenylation - independent decapping of nuclear - transcribed mrna is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of deadenylation - independent decapping of nuclear - transcribed mrna is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which deadenylation - independent decapping of nuclear - transcribed mrna does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to iron ion starvation is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which premeiotic dna replication is normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which premeiotic dna replication does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which cells show decreased sensitivity to heat shock .
a phenotype in which cells in a population show decreased sensitivity to a stress .
a cell phenotype in which cells show decreased sensitivity to heat shock ,  when the cell is also subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype characterized by normal cell morphology  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is elongated ,  has no septum ,  and contains more than one nucleus .
a cell morphology phenotype in which vegetative a cell is branched ,  elongated ,  has no septum ,  and contains more than one nucleus .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is swollen ,  elongated ,  has no septum ,  and contains more than one nucleus .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of ascospore formation is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna topoisomerase ii activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to hydroxyurea .
obsolete .a viability phenotype in which a cell is unable to survive at a low temperature at which wild - type cells survive .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial translation is decreased .
a cell population phenotype that reflects the proportion of the population that survive and develop normally .
a cell population phenotype in which cells in the population are viable .
a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in the population are viable .
a cell population phenotype in which cells in the population are viable in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the growth of a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a 3' - 5' - exoribonuclease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a 3' - 5' - exoribonuclease activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a 3' - 5' - exoribonuclease activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a cell has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and is inviable .
a cell population phenotype in which a cell population grows more slowly than normal when the population has been in stationary phase and is then placed in conditions that allow recovery .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize histidine ,  and therefore requires histidine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a cell has a nucleus in an abnormal location .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a nucleus in the normal location at the midpoint of the long axis of the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a nucleus in an abnormal location .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a prospore has a nucleus in an abnormal location .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleus is observed there during a cellular response to copper ions .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in the population are viable at a high temperature .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in the population are viable at a high temperature in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is elongated ,  has a nucleus that is broken into multiple small fragments ,  forms a septum that is thicker than normal ,  and is inviable .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to conditions of low osmolarity .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to calcium during a cellular hypotonic response .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to n - tosyl - l - phenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone  ( tpck )  .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of ubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is increased .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  is swollen ,  is elongated ,  and in which the nucleus is larger than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell has a larger volume and cell diameter ,  but shorter cell length ,  than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the growth of a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more exocytic vesicles than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more exocytic vesicles at one or both cell tips than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle ,  when the cell is growing .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more exocytic vesicles than normal near the division septum while the cell is undergoing septum assembly .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which exocytosis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosomes or sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during nuclear division ,  but instead one or more chromosomes remain distant from the spindle pole after the bulk of the dna has separated .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosomes or sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during meiosis i or meiosis ii ,  but instead one or more chromosomes remain distant from the spindle pole after the bulk of the dna has separated .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is abnormal during meiosis .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is decreased during meiosis .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to a dna damage stimulus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an 3' - 5' dna helicase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which an 3' - 5' dna helicase activity is absent .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has one nucleus and one septum ,  and is swollen and inviable .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a normal shape and is viable .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a normal shape but is inviable .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  but the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is viable ,  and tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is inviable ,  and tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  and tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  and tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  and is curved along the long axis .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  and is curved along the long axis .
a phenotype that affects a transporter activity .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a specified transporter activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sodium:hydrogen antiporter activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sodium:hydrogen antiporter activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sodium:hydrogen antiporter activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 4 , 6 - pyruvylated d - galactose  ( 4 , 6 - o -  [  ( 1r )  - 1 - carboxyethylidene ]  - d - galactose )  measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to heat .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to heat .
a phenotype that affects an interaction between a protein and rna .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and rna is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and rna does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and rna is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and rna is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an rna catabolic process is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process is increased .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues n - terminal to proline residues  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of cellular pigment accumulation is increased during a cellular response to caffeine .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is lower than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues n - terminal to proline residues  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to diethyl maleate  ( dem )  is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all vegetative cells arising from a population of germinated spores are inviable .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable and elongated in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in a population of spores are viable .
a viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable and have a lower volume than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable but have a lower volume than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosome structure is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two nuclei and one septum ,  and in which the septum is located between the two nuclei but is not perpendicular to the long axis of the cell .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan synthase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint signaling does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan synthase activity is decreased .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cilofungin than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the fungal - type cell wall is thinner than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms an actomyosin contractile ring in an abnormal location ,  and the ring has a curved ,  or c - shaped ,  profile .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of polynucleotide 3' - phosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which polynucleotide 3' - phosphatase activity is absent .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ethyl methanesulfonate .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated and branched  ( and septated )  ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division and then dies .
obsolete .a viability phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is able to survive at a low temperature .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during nitrogen starvation measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during the meiotic cell cycle measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process that specifically degrades dsr - containing rna molecules is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has normal volume and dimensions and is viable .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has normal volume ,  dimensions and shape ,  and is viable .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which cells in the population are viable ,  and some cells are longer than normal .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which a microcolony forms ,  all cells in the population are inviable and have abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which cells in the population are viable ,  some cells are longer than normal ,  and the rest of the cells are of normal morphology  ( i .e .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of germinated spores and spheroid vegetative cells .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of ungerminated spores ,  germinated spores and spheroid vegetative cells .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of ungerminated spores ,  germinated spores and cells with normal morphology  ( i .e .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of ungerminated spores ,  germinated spores and tapered vegetative cells .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of germinated spores and tapered vegetative cells .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that have a lower volume than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a normal volume .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that have a normal volume and spheroid shape .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a normal volume .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  has one or more septa ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that have a normal volume and spheroid shape ,  and contain one or more septa each .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  contains one or more septa ,  is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a normal volume .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that have a larger volume than normal and spheroid shape ,  and contain one or more septa each .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable and have normal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which cell shape is altered in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is viable ,  and cell shape is altered in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable but have abnormal cell shape ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a normal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable and has one or more septa ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable but the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells in which the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that each contain one or more septa ,  and in which the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in a population of spores are viable ,  and all have a larger volume than normal .
a viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive ,  and has a larger volume than normal and an abnormal shape .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in a population of spores are viable ,  and all have a larger volume than normal and an abnormal shape .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that taper at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all vegetative cells arising from a population of germinated spores are inviable ,  and the germinated spores have elongated germ tubes .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube that is curved along the long axis ,  but does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all vegetative cells arising from a population of germinated spores are inviable ,  and the germinated spores have elongated germ tubes that are curved along the long axis .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all vegetative cells arising from a population of germinated spores are inviable ,  and have germ tubes with abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  is elongated ,  and is curved along the long axis .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable and are curved along the long axis in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable ,  elongated ,  and curved along the long axis in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all vegetative cells arising from a population of germinated spores are inviable ,  and have germ tubes with normal morphology  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome segregation ,  or disjunction ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of one or more meiotic cell cycle phases is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through the anaphase of meiosis ii is longer than normal .
a spindle phenotype in which the meiotic spindle is longer than normal during meiosis ii .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the meiotic cell cycle is arrested in meiosis ii .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the meiotic cell cycle is arrested under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that are longer than normal .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells in which cell shape is altered and cell size remains normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more triglycerides measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylethanolamine measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ergosterol measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  has a larger volume than normal ,  and is curved along the long axis .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that are curved along the long axis .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that have a larger volume than normal and are curved along the long axis .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable but longer than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more sterol esters measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more sterol esters measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more sterol esters measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cerulenin .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form telomeres that are shorter than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  has one or more septa ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  has one or more septa ,  and has a normal volume .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  and tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of acid phosphatase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which acid phosphatase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of monosaccharide binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of glucose binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of glucose binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of mannose binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of fructose binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is curved along the long axis ,  and in which vacuoles are more visible  ( usually by microscopy )  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and has a larger volume ,  and is longer ,  than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains a single septum ,  has one nucleus ,  is elongated ,  and is inviable .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a septum in the normal location at the midpoint of the long axis of the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the telomere is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the nucleus is larger than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the nucleus is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the fungal - type vacuole is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains more ,  but smaller ,  vacuoles than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which l - leucine import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which l - glutamate import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which n - glycan processing is abnormal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division and then dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that enters the cell cycle but then becomes elongated and undergoes cell cycle arrest ,  and eventually dies without completing cell division .
a phenotype in which the concentration of one or more polysaccharides released into the growth medium by cells is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of galactomannan measured in the cell wall is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more polysaccharides measured in the cell wall is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which glutamate - ammonia ligase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity is increased .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize glutamine ,  and therefore requires glutamine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that have abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a protein metabolic process is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein degradation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of protein degradation is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of protein degradation is increased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube that is curved along the long axis ,  and undergoes a single round of cell division .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that undergoes a single round of cell division ,  and then dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a germ tube with abnormal size ,  shape ,  or structure .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is curved along the long axis ,  and has one or more septa .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to heat .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to osmotic stress is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to heat is lower than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable and taper at one end to a diameter smaller than the other ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which cells in the population are viable ,  and some cells are curved along the long axis .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube ,  but does not go on to form a viable dividing cell ,  and instead lyses .
obsolete .an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
a colony morphology phenotype in which the colony spreads laterally to a lesser extent ,  and grows vertically to a greater extent ,  resulting in a more conical shape ,  than a wild - type colony .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches are localized throughout the cell cortex  ( rather than concentrated at the cell ends as in wild type cells )  during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable germinated spores with elongated germ tubes ,  and in which some cells divide once and others do not divide .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable germinated spores with curved germ tubes ,  and in which some cells divide once and others do not divide .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of germinated spores with elongated germ tubes and elongated vegetative cells .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that are curved along the long axis and contain one or more septa .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is spheroid ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division and then dies .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and has one nucleus and one septum .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to non - ionic osmotic stress is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of 5 - phosphoribose 1 - diphosphate binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of 5 - phosphoribose 1 - diphosphate binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of imp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of imp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of gmp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of gmp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ergosterol measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of all - trans - geranylgeranyl diphosphate  ( ggpp )  measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of all - trans - farnesyl diphosphate  ( fpp )  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of squalene measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of squalene measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ergosterol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of lanosterol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of squalene measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ergosterol measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of all - trans - farnesyl diphosphate  ( fpp )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of all - trans - geranylgeranyl diphosphate  ( ggpp )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of lanosterol measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a sterol measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a sterol measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a sterol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to terbinafine .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the golgi apparatus is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of a protein in a cell .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a diploid cell with a single functional copy of a gene grows faster than a diploid with two  ( on no )  functional copies .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing is normal  ( i .e .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at the silent mating - type cassettes is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a cell has one nucleus that is not in the normal location ,  is elongated ,  and is inviable .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear periphery is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear periphery is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of dna recombination is decreased .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is greater than in wild type .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell contains one or more septa .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity phleomycin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to oxaliplatin .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at the outer repeat region of the centromere is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule assembly is abnormal .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule assembly does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule assembly begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule disassembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule disassembly begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein encoded by heterochromatic genes that are normally silenced is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in silent mating - type cassettes occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of binding by a gene product to a methylated histone residue in a protein is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and rna is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in silent mating - type cassettes is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in telomeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h3 acetylation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h3 acetylation occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h3 acetylation occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h4 acetylation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h4 acetylation occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 56 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 56 of histone h3 in regions of the genome that are actively transcribed occurs to a greater extent than normal .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of spores ,  undivided germinated spores ,  and germinated spores that go on to divide once or twice .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable and are shaped in the form of spheroids .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch localization is abnormal during mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of actin cortical patches is abnormal during mitosis .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable and has a larger volume than normal .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable but have a greater length ,  diameter ,  and volume than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube ,  but does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  and shaped in the form of a spheroid .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h3 acetylation occurs to a greater extent than normal in centromere outer repeat regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h4 acetylation occurs to a greater extent than normal in centromere outer repeat regions .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at positions 9 and 14 of histone h3 in regions of the genome that are actively transcribed occurs to a greater extent than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at positions 5 ,  8 ,  12 and 16 of histone h4 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at centromere outer repeat regions is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at subtelomeres is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of riboflavin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at centromere outer repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid cohesion is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to parts of the chromosome containing ribosomal dna is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the maintenance of localization of a protein at a location in heterochromatin at centromere outer repeat regions is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the maintenance of localization of a protein at a location in heterochromatin at centromere outer repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the actin cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which all detectable microtubules are present in a single bundle .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain more microtubule bundles than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  and has an abnormal shape and a larger volume than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the nucleus is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the endomembrane system is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable and is curved along the long axis ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  contains one or more septa ,  and is curved along the long axis ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable and curved along the long axis ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are viable and curved along the long axis ,  contain one or more septa apiece ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube ,  and undergoes a single round of cell division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  cell shape is altered ,  and cell size remains normal ,  and in which vacuoles are more visible  ( usually by microscopy )  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  and is curved along the long axis .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable ,  elongated ,  and curved along the long axis in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable and curved along the long axis in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and has an abnormal shape and a larger volume than normal .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells in which cell shape is altered and cell volume is larger than normal .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of ungerminated spores and germinated spores with elongated germ tubes .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of ungerminated spores ,  germinated spores and elongated vegetative cells .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all vegetative cells arising from a population of germinated spores are inviable ,  and do not divide before dying .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce cell that has an abnormal shape and undergoes a single round of cell division .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that has an abnormal shape and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all vegetative cells arising from a population of germinated spores are inviable ,  have an abnormal shape and undergo one or two rounds of cell division .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that forms a septum but does not divide ,  and that has an abnormal shape .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch localization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cable organization is abnormal during mitosis .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable germinated spores ,  and in which some cells divide once and others do not divide .
a viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive ,  and has an abnormal shape .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of germinated spores with elongated germ tubes and vegetative cells of normal size and shape .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of abnormal shape and normal size that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division and then dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division ,  and then dies .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of germinated spores of abnormal shape and vegetative cells of abnormal shape .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of germinated spores and vegetative cells of abnormal shape .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable and have abnormal cell shape ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form actin cables that are shorter than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of actin cables is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the orientation of actin cables within a cell is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form actin cables that are thicker than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form actin cables that are shorter than normal and abnormally oriented within the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form actin cables that are shorter and thicker than normal ,  and abnormally oriented within the cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cable distribution is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin cable retrograde transport is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin cable retrograde transport is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally localized to discrete regions in the cytoplasm ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  is abnormally localized such that dots cannot be observed .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in actin cortical patches is observed there .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the n - glycosylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dsc e3 ubiquitin ligase complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer signal recognition particles  ( srps )  than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is septated and has abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable and cell shape is altered in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains one or more septa ,  has abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that have abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable and have abnormal cell morphology  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the position or morphology of all or part of the septum is abnormal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  is curved along the long axis ,  and contains one or more abnormal septa .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  is elongated ,  is curved along the long axis ,  and contains one or more abnormal septa .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  branched ,  septated ,  and elongated .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  branched ,  septated ,  elongated ,  and is curved along the long axis .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  branched ,  septated ,  and elongated .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  branched ,  septated ,  elongated ,  and is curved along the long axis .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that are curved along the long axis ,  elongated ,  and branched  ( and septated )  .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which none of the cells in a population of spores are viable ,  and all have an abnormal shape .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of ungerminated spores ,  germinated spores and cells with abnormal morphology  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a spore has an abnormal shape .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which all cells in the population are inviable ,  have a larger volume and are longer than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells that are longer than normal and taper at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of histone h2a does not occur during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  cell shape is altered ,  and cell size remains normal ,  and in which vacuoles are more visible  ( usually by microscopy )  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable and is curved along the long axis ,  and in which vacuoles are more visible  ( usually by microscopy )  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable and has a larger volume ,  and is longer ,  than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube ,  and subsequently forms a viable dividing cell .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  and shaped in the form of a spheroid .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  has an abnormally low volume ,  and tapers at one end to a diameter smaller than the other .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of two meiotic reciprocal recombination events  ( crossovers )  close to each other is incresed .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of two meiotic reciprocal recombination events  ( crossovers )  close to each other is decresed .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of meiotic strand displacement is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of actin cables are normal  ( i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell lyses ,  i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a spore lyses ,  i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that has a greater length ,  diameter ,  and volume than normal ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division and then dies .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna 5' - adenosine monophosphate hydrolase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna 5' - adenosine monophosphate hydrolase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna 5' - adenosine monophosphate hydrolase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein modification is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein modification is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cellular metabolic process is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein modification does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of protein modification is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of protein modification is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein palmitoylation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein palmitoylation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein palmitoylation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cellular process phenotype in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cellular process phenotype in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cellular process phenotype in which the palmitoylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated ,  branched germ tube ,  but does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to mitotic cell cycle checkpoint signaling is abnormal  ( does not occur ,  or occurs abnormally )  .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to cell cycle checkpoint signaling does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to mitotic g2 / m transition cell cycle checkpoint signaling does not occur .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation with wild type h +  cells .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation with wild type h -  cells .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of polyadenylated mrna from the nucleus is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nadph - hemoprotein reductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nadph - hemoprotein reductase activity is increased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of one or more chromosomes are normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to latrunculin b .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein is localized to the cell division site for longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein is localized to the cell division site for a shorter time than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is abnormal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is abolished during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is decreased during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm begins later than normal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is abnormal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is abolished during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm begins later than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is decreased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is increased .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues n - terminal to proline residues  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues n - terminal to proline residues  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues three positions c - terminal to arginine residues  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues three positions c - terminal to arginine residues  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to trichostatin a .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to nicotinamide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 4' - phosphopantothenate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which cells in a population show increased sensitivity to a stress .
a cell phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to ultraviolet light .
a cell phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to ultraviolet light during g0 phase .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer lipid droplets than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break processing is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex of a cell is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex of a cell is decreased ,  and the protein is instead detected distributed throughout the cell cortex of half of the cell nearer the non - growing end .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex is decreased in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear periphery is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature transfer rna  ( trna )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone methylation does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rnas transcribed from the centromere outer repeat region measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear periphery is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dctp measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of datp measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dgtp measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dttp measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein ssb1 accumulates is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein a region in a chromosome that contains one or more long terminal repeats  ( ltrs )  is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of hydroxyurea than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of mature transfer rna  ( trna )  measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature transfer rna  ( trna )  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any trna processing intermediates with 3' extensions measured in the nucleus is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature mitochondrial transfer rna  ( trna )  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature transfer rna  ( trna )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature mitochondrial transfer rna  ( trna )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature mitochondrial transfer rna  ( trna )  measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial trna 3' - end processing is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any mitochondrially - encoded polycistronic rna precursors measured in the cell is higher than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of nickel ions than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of zinc ions than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any trna processing intermediates with 3' extensions measured in the mitochondria is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone phosphorylation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone phosphorylation does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone phosphorylation occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone phosphorylation is normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone modification is normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation is normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a lower extent than normal during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation does not occur at the mating type locus during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal at ribosomal dna .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal at ribosomal dna during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal at ribosomal dna during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal at trna genes  ( tdna )  in centromeric regions during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a lower extent than normal at centromeric outer repeat regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation is normal at centromeric outer repeat regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a lower extent than normal at subtelomeric regions during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation is normal at subtelomeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation is normal at the mating type locus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the pre - autophagosomal structure is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the pre - autophagosomal structure is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the pre - autophagosomal structure is increased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sodium butyrate .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of malate dehydrogenase  ( decarboxylating )   ( nad +  )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of malate dehydrogenase  ( decarboxylating )   ( nad +  )  activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to a glucose stimulus is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally localized to discrete regions in the nucleus ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  is abnormally localized such that fewer dots are observed than in normal  ( wild type )  cells .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to parts of the chromosome containing ribosomal dna is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to heat .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the cell wall differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the cell wall is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of galactose measured in the cell wall is too low to detect .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the outer surface of the fungal - type cell wall is rougher and less regular than normal .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dttp biosynthesis is abnormal .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dttp biosynthesis is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dttp measured in a cell is higher than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cobalt ions than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle elongation begins later than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint is activated more frequently than normal ,  typically under conditions that do not cause checkpoint activation in wild - type cells .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distance between sister kinetochores is greater than normal before the onset of mitotic anaphase .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to clotrimazole .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to micafungin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to amphotericin b .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during mitosis .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during prometaphase of mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the kinetochore is longer than normal during mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the kinetochore is divided into two or more parts .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during a mitotic or meiotic nuclear division results in the connection of a single kinetochore to both spindle poles .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more intracellular endomembrane system structures than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of vacuolar import ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which exocytic vesicles are larger than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more exocytic vesicles than normal ,  and the vesicles are larger than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to one or more actin filaments occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  occurs to the same extent as in wild - type cells .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose 6 - phosphate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose 6 - phosphate measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is subject to heat shock .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of trehalose 6 - phosphate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose 6 - phosphate measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is subject to heat shock .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is subject to heat shock .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity does not increase as a result of a hydrogen peroxide stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more messenger rnas that are normally expressed during a cellular response to stress measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of peptide - serine - n - acetyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which peptide - serine - n - acetyltransferase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of peptide - serine - n - acetyltransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of peptide - serine - n - acetyltransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of peptide - glutamate - n - acetyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of peptide - glutamate - n - acetyltransferase activity is increased .
a phenotype in which the concentration of one or more proteins released into the growth medium by cells is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dtdp measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dttp measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a greater extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a phenotype in which cells in a population show increased resistance to a chemical stimulus .
a phenotype in which cells in a population show decreased resistance to a chemical stimulus .
a phenotype in which germinating spores show increased sensitivity to phlorizin .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of trehalose measured in a spore is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere length is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a short mitotic spindle assembles ,  but does not elongate .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cumene hydroperoxide .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to paraquat .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of diamide  ( n , n , n' , n' - tetramethyldiazene - 1 , 2 - dicarboxamide )  than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of hygromycin b than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  ( nadph )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  ( nadph )  activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  ( nadph )  activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  ( nadph )  activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is increased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to torin1 .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more chromosomes forms a circle by fusion of its ends .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in autophagosomes is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which autophagic vacuole docking is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to methionine .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cordycepin than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which prospore formation does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which the cell does not contain a detectable spindle pole body .
a cell phenotype in which nuclei formed by the second meiotic nuclear division do not contain detectable spindle pole bodies .
a cellular process phenotype in which the haploid nuclei formed by meiotic nuclear division do not separate normally .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of dna recombination is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of dna recombination is decreased at the mating type locus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the golgi apparatus is observed there .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure the golgi apparatus is normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuole fusion ,  the merging of two vacuole membranes to form a single vacuole ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuole fusion is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell septum is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell septum is decreased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to one or more enzymes that degrades cell wall polysaccharides by hydrolyzing beta - glucan linkages .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration than normal of one or more enzymes that degrades cell wall polysaccharides by hydrolyzing alpha - glucan linkages .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phytochelatin measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of cellular pigment accumulation is increased during a cellular response to cadmium ion .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of l - aminoadipate - semialdehyde dehydrogenase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of saccharopine dehydrogenase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of saccharopine dehydrogenase activity is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  is swollen ,  is elongated ,  and in which the nucleus is larger than normal ,  when the cell is in a culture entering stationary phase .
a cell phenotype in which the total amount of dna in a cell is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the total amount of dna in a cell is greater than normal when the cell is in a culture in stationary phase .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a cell contains a single nucleus ,  and more dna than normal ,  when the cell is in a culture in stationary phase .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated and tapered ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not execute a cell cycle process normally .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not proceed normally through a specific cell cycle phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not proceed normally through a specific mitotic cell cycle phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not execute a mitotic cell cycle process normally .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not proceed normally through a specific meiotic cell cycle phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not execute a meiotic cell cycle process normally .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell proceeds normally through a specific mitotic cell cycle phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell executes a mitotic cell cycle process normally  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more iron transport rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more amino acid metabolism rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more amino acid transport rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - proline measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - valine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - lysine measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - alanine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - asparagine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of sulfate ions into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of sulfate ions into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing l - methionine as the sole sulfur source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing sulfate ions as the sole sulfur source .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of cysteine synthase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of cysteine synthase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of cysteine synthase activity is increased .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of quinidine than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of 4 - nitroquinoline n - oxide than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the pre - autophagosomal structure is abolished .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule bundle formation ,  which normally results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules ,  is abnormal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  and that is shaped in the form of a spheroid .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of trna  ( guanine ( 9 )  - n ( 1 )  )  - methyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which trna  ( guanine ( 9 )  - n ( 1 )  )  - methyltransferase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of trna  ( guanine ( 9 )  - n ( 1 )  )  - methyltransferase activity is decreased .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of clotrimazole than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of terbinafine than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of ubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the spindle pole body is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the spindle pole body is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell undergoes an abnormal nuclear division after meiosis ii is complete .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of ubiquitinated protein measured in the cell is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of sumoylated protein measured the cell is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of sumoylated protein measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the sumoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of sumoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is lower than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to nitric oxide .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to a salt stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to nitric oxide .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to a salt stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which riboflavin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of riboflavin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which vacuoles are smaller than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuoles are smaller than normal .
a cell phenotype observed when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase in which vacuoles are smaller than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain more vacuoles than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains more ,  but smaller ,  vacuoles than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more ,  but smaller ,  vacuoles than normal during a cellular response to a hypotonic environment .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer vacuoles than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the number ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the vacuole ( s )  is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains fewer ,  but larger ,  vacuoles than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein degradation is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein degradation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein degradation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein degradation is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a cell has a nucleus in an abnormal location at the cell cortex when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which vacuole organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which vacuole organization is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which sodium ion import into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to arsenate ions .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 6 , 7 - dimethyl - 8 - ribityllumazine synthase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 6 , 7 - dimethyl - 8 - ribityllumazine synthase activity is decreased .
a cell population phenotype in which the septation index is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a non - ionic osmotic stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glycerol measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glycerol measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell surface is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell surface is abolished .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube ,  and in which the nucleus divides at least once to produce a multinucleate cell .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division is arrested under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain fewer microtubule bundles than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in telomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in telomeric regions does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is decreased during interphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is decreased during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body does not occur during interphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which gamma - tubulin complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at the silent mating - type cassettes is decreased .
a regulation phenotype in which the basal activity of a protein kinase is increased relative to normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phytochelatin measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  begins later than normal during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of polyuridylation - dependent decapping of nuclear - transcribed mrna is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromeric regions is decreased .
an rna metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small interfering rna transcripts derived from the centromere outer repeat region are absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small interfering rna transcripts derived from the centromere outer repeat region are present at greater levels than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small interfering rna transcripts derived from the centromere outer repeat region measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a specific location on a chromosome is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a specific location on a chromosome is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a specific location on a chromosome is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a specific location on a chromosome is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere outer repeat regions of a chromosome is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleoplasm is observed there .
obsolete .a cell population phenotype in which a cell undergoes one or a few rounds of cell division before cells die ,  resulting in the formation a colony that contains only a few inviable cells which are septated ,  elongated ,  and have a larger than normal cell volume .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  is swollen ,  is elongated ,  and contains one or more septa .
obsolete .a mixed population phenotype in which all cells in a population are inviable ,  and the population includes a mixture of ungerminated spores ,  germinated spores and small vegetative cells .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured in the proteasome is lower than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a new growth zone forms along the lateral portion of the cell  ( often in the middle )  before septation ,  such that a single cell grows in the form of the letter t ,  when the cell population has been in stationary phase and is then placed in conditions that allow recovery .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is curved when the cell population has been in stationary phase and is then placed in conditions that allow recovery .
a cell phenotype characterized by normal cell morphology  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the eisosome is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate - cysteine ligase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which glutamate - cysteine ligase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate - cysteine ligase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione synthase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which glutathione synthase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - glucan measured at the cell tip is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the non - growing cell tip is abolished .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of polynucleotide uridylyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of polynucleotide uridylyltransferase  ( poly ( u )  polymerase )  activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell growth is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells elongate more slowly than normal when the cells are returned to nitrogen - rich medium following nitrogen starvation .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of 5 - fluoroorotic acid than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to polypeptone .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tryptone .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of orotidine 5' - phosphate  ( orotidine monophosphate ;  omp )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of orotidine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a non - growing cell tip is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a growing cell tip is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a septum in the normal orientation perpendicular the long axis of the cell .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription does not occur when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation and oxidative stress simultaneously .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation and oxidative stress simultaneously .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the mitotic cell cycle is arrested after the septum has formed ,  but before cells have separated ,  under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  and contains one or more abnormal septa .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the horsetail nucleus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of chromatin organization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of heterochromatin organization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to camp .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to calcium ions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to calcium ions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to a dna damage stimulus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to a dna damage stimulus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is abnormal when the cell is exposed to ultraviolet light .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is viable and shaped in the form of a pear in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is inviable and shaped in the form of a pear in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere maintenance ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of splicing of antisense rna primary transcripts is increased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomeres have fused ,  forming circular chromosomes ,  during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal in telomeric regions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to transcribed regions of chromatin is decreased .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube that has a larger diameter and volume than normal ,  and does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  is elongated ,  and contains more than one nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which antisense rna transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal in intergenic regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rna splicing is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of rna splicing is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone ubiquitination is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ubiquitination of lysine at position 119 of histone h2b does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ubiquitination of lysine at position 119 of histone h2b is normal  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing maltose as the carbon source .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to cre promoter in a chromosome is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and polyadenylated rna  ( poly ( a ) rna )  does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and a polyadenylated rna  ( poly ( a ) rna )  is decreased .
a phenotype in which polyadenylated rna molecules have poly ( a )  tails of normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which polyadenylated rna molecules have poly ( a )  tails of abnormal length .
a phenotype in which polyadenylated rna molecules have poly ( a )  tails of that are shorter than normal .
a phenotype in which polyadenylated rna molecules have poly ( a )  tails of that are longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature snorna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature snorna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any unspliced or incompletely spliced mrna precursor measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an rna catabolic process that degrades mrna encoded in the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a larger volume than normal ,  when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a larger volume than normal ,  when the cell undergoes transition from g0 phase to g1 .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell when the cell is in g0 phase is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the cell wall is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the fungal - type cell wall is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the fungal - type cell wall is delaminated ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount a specific substance measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of n - acetyl - d - glucosaminate measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of l - ergothioneine measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of s - methyl - l - ergothioneine measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of s - adenosyl - l - methionine measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of s - adenosyl - 3 - thiopropylamine measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the transition from g0 phase  ( quiescence )  to g1 is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the mei2 nuclear dot is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during the meiotic cell cycle ,  and that contain determinant of selective removal  ( dsr )  sequences ,  measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the fungal - type cell wall is delaminated ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the mei2 nuclear dot is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to  nuclear exosome foci is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to  nuclear exosome foci is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleolus is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is increased during metaphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is decreased during telophase .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquitin ligase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquitin ligase activity is increased during metaphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which origin recognition complex  ( orc )  assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydroxyurea is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at promoters that contain mcb sites is decreased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at promoters that contain mcb sites is increased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is increased during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate is higher than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  contains two nuclei ,  has a larger diameter and volume than normal ,  and has an abnormal shape featuring a constriction at the center of the cell ,  corresponding to the cell division site .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ammonium .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more iron transport messenger rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of leucine into the cell occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins earlier than normal ,  during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins earlier than normal ,  during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is increased during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of dna replication is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of dna replication during the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of dna replication during the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly and distribution of actin filaments and associated proteins does not occur ,  resulting in the failure to form an actomyosin contractile ring ,  and in which medial cortical nodes form irregular clumps instead of coalescing into the medial cortex ring .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is normal  ( i .e .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of actin filaments from actin monomers does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain more actin filaments than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is decreased during metaphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is higher than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube that has a larger diameter and volume than normal and forms branches ,  and does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to caffeine .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to caffeine is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to zinc .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere outer repeat regions of a chromosome is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin in subtelomeric regions is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells attempt to undergo mitosis before they have begun to replicate genomic dna .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which contractile ring disassembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actomyosin contractile ring disassembly is decreased .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell lyses ,  i .e .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell lyses ,  i .e .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated during a cellular response to salt stress .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated during a cellular response to non - ionic osmotic stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the autophosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the autophosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ethyl n - phenylcarbamate  ( epc )  .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of nocodazole than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  begins later than normal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of polyadenylated mrna from the nucleus is normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch localization is normal during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mrna splicing via the spliceosome is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mrna splicing via the spliceosome is decreased ,  where introns have low a / u content and polypyrimidine tracts located approximately 17 - 19 nt distal to the branch site .
a cellular process phenotype in which conjugation takes place in cells that are not subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell when the cell is subject to glucose starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell when the cell is subject to glucose starvation is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to ultraviolet light is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to ultraviolet light is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype that shows detectable differences from normal at the level of an individual cell .
a cell phenotype in which rna stability is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which rna stability is decreased during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of rna splicing is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of splicing of small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  primary transcripts is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to nuclear exosome foci does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the mei2 nuclear dot is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a larger region near the centromere than normal ,  such that it extends beyond the irc1r boundary element .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a larger region near the centromere than normal ,  such that it extends beyond the irc3l boundary element .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a larger region near the silent mating - type cassette than normal ,  such that it extends beyond the irr boundary element .
a phenotype in which a transcript ,  i .e .
a phenotype in which a transcript ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is abnormal at a cis - acting homologous chromosome pairing region such as the sme2 locus .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is increased  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is decreased  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is delayed at a cis - acting homologous chromosome pairing region such as the sme2 locus .
a cell phenotype in which the cell does not contain a detectable mei2 nuclear dot complex .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of an rna in a cell is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of an rna in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of an rna to chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of reciprocal meiotic recombination at a cis - acting homologous chromosome pairing region such as the sme2 locus is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the two nuclei in a cell formed by conjugation undergo meiosis before karyogamy is completed .
a cellular process phenotype in which nuclear migration involved in conjugation with cellular fusion is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal during conjugation with cellular fusion .
a sporulation phenotype in which asci that contain one ,  two ,  or three spores form following conjugation and subsequent sporulation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stalled replication forks are unwound four - stranded structures resembling holliday junctions ,  but are not subsequently resolved correctly .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at replication forks is decreased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at replication forks is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a single - stranded dna 5' - 3' exodeoxyribonuclease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a single - stranded dna 5' - 3' exodeoxyribonuclease activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of primary amine oxidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of primary amine oxidase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to nuclear centromeric heterochromatin is abolished .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the autophosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of autophosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the autophosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which genetic imprinting at the mating - type locus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which genetic imprinting at the mating - type locus does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which genetic imprinting at the mating - type locus occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which genetic imprinting at the mating - type locus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at the mating - type locus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at the mating - type locus does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at the mating - type locus occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at sites within the eukaryotic rdna repeat spacer is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at abnormal replication fork arrest at sites within the eukaryotic rdna repeat spacer occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at a replication fork pausing site within the eukaryotic rdna repeat spacer in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at a replication fork pausing site within the mating - type region in a mutant is decreased .
a phenotype in which small rna molecules physically associated with the argonaute protein  ( ago1 )  are longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rnas transcribed from the centromere outer repeat region are present at lower levels than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable and elongated ,  and continues to become longer over successive generations .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin assembly is abnormal in centromere outer repeat regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin assembly occurs to a lower extent than normal in regions containing protein - coding genes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from mrna transcripts measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from mrna transcripts measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from transposable element transcripts measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form telomeres that are shorter than normal ,  and that remain at a consistent length over successive generations .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form telomeres that are shorter than normal ,  and that continue to decrease in length over successive generations .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome does not occur .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a combination of caffeine and rapamycin .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquitinyl hydrolase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquitinyl hydrolase activity is increased .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of sodium nitroprusside than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of nitric oxide measured in a cell is higher than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of l - methionine  ( r )  - s - oxide than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to plumbagin .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is higher than normal during a cellular response to plumbagin .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of polyadenylated messenger rna  ( mrna )  measured in the nucleus is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of autophosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is decreased during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear periphery is abolished during a cellular response to heat .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which translation in the cytoplasm is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of translational initiation in the cytoplasm is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain a detectable post - anaphase array of microtubules .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of nitric oxide measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in m phase .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally localized to discrete regions in the nucleus ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  is abnormally localized such that dots cannot be observed during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype in which entry into the g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle  ( exit from mitosis )  begins earlier than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a gene product is normally localized to discrete regions in the nucleus  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of galactomannan measured in the cell wall is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of alpha - d - glucan measured in the cell wall is greater than normal during a cellular response to calcium starvation .
a cell adhesion phenotype in which cells adhere to other cells of compatible mating type normally  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more plasma membrane than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitotic spindle pole bodies are normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the ascospore wall is abnormal .
a sporulation phenotype that results in the formation of an ascus that contains spore - like bodies that do not contain nuclei .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to heat .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in prophase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to hydrostatic pressure .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of udp - n - acetylglucosamine - dolichyl - phosphate n - acetylglucosaminephosphotransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of udp - n - acetylglucosamine - dolichyl - phosphate n - acetylglucosaminephosphotransferase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to heat is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to heat is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to heat is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell growth is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow from one end ,  and do not grow continuously ,  but instead oscillate between periods of growth and pauses during which no growth occurs .
a cellular process phenotype in which the monopolar growth of a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein is localized to the growing cell tip ,  but then remains there for a longer or shorter time than normal .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of actin cables does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp  ( camp )  measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is elongated ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect during a cellular response to salt stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nuclease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which nuclease activity is absent .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two nuclei and one septum ,  but both nuclei are in a single compartment on one side of the septum .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of protein farnesyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which protein farnesyltransferase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype in which the import of one or more amino acids into the cell occurs to a greater extent than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of arginine into the cell occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two nuclei and the mitotic cell cycle is arrested after the septum has formed ,  but before cells have separated .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in m phase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur ,  and the cell does not form a septum .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleotide - excision repair is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleotide - excision repair is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleotide - excision repair is decreased during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic chromosome segregation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome biorientation is abnormal during meiosis .
a cellular process phenotype in which the organization and subsequent separation of sister chromatids during the second meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of intragenic meiotic recombination is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which generation of double - strand breaks at defined hotspots throughout the genome during meiosis i does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which sister chromatids are not segregated equally to both spindle poles in the second meiotic nuclear division .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoskeleton is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the microtubule cytoskeleton is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found associated with astral microtubules during mitosis is observed there during mitosis .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of protein into the nucleus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein import into the nucleus is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to microtubules does not occur ,  and the protein is instead visible in one or a few foci or dots in the cytoplasm ,  during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to phosphate starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to iron ion starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to copper ion starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to glucose starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at a transcription regulatory region by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of primary cell septum biogenesis is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction is not spatially and temporally coupled to division septum assembly as in wild type .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum that is curved .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain a detectable secondary cell septum .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a primary septum that is thinner than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to salt stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is decreased ,  and an increased amount of the protein is instead detected distributed throughout the plasma membrane and / or cell cortex .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a septum that is in an abnormal location and is not perpendicular to the long axis of the cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which secondary cell septum biogenesis is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum that is kinked ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation is instantaneous and asymmetrical ,  with a ripped primary septum .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at ribosomal dna repeat regions is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the chromatin silencing at the central core of the centromeric regions is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the modification of a wobble base uridine residue in a trna to 5 - methoxycarbonylmethyl - 2 - thiouridine is abolished .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at positions 9 and 14 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at positions 9 and 14 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone acetylation is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to zearalenone .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of microtubule polymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle begins later than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the long cytoplasmic microtubules characteristic of interphase cells remain present after mitosis begins and the mitotic spindle forms .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the oxidation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cellular process phenotype in which the chemical breakdown of hydrogen peroxide is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at heterochromatin islands occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at heterochromatin domains occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at heterochromatin islands is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at heterochromatin domains is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at centromere outer repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from transposable element transcripts measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of splicing of rna primary transcripts at sites that are not normally frequently used  ( or not spliced at all )  is increased .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal under anaerobic conditions .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphodiesterase i activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphodiesterase i activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation fails to separate chromosomes into two equal masses .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mrna splicing via the spliceosome is decreased ,  where introns have low a / u content .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth the occurrence of splicing of introns longer than about 45 nucleotides is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mrna splicing via the spliceosome takes place normally for some ,  but abnormally for other ,  specific introns .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the daughter nuclei formed by mitosis cluster in the middle of the cell during telophase .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of histone h3 binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of histone h3 measured at centromere inner repeat regions is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of histone h3 measured at centromeric dh repeat regions is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septum assembly begins earlier than normal ,  e .g .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more sterol regulatory elements  ( sres )  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing l - proline as the nitrogen source .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of one or more amino acids into the cell is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of arginine into the cell is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of proline into the cell is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of proline into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of proline into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of proline into the cell occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of proline into the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of splicing of rna primary transcripts at sites that are not normally frequently used is decreased .
obsolete .a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
obsolete .a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a sporulation phenotype in which asci that contain more than four ,  and up to eight ,  spores form following conjugation and subsequent sporulation .
a spindle phenotype in which the meiotic spindles in adjacent dividing nuclei overlap during meiosis i .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity increases normally  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of acid phosphatase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to one or more microtubules does not occur .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize glutathione ,  and therefore requires glutathione in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing l - methionine as the sole sulfur source .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to nitrite ions .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sodium hypochlorite .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to one or more microtubules does not occur during mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the position ,  morphology ,  or physical characteristics of all or part of the plasma membrane is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more golgi cisternae than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to copper ion starvation is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of superoxide dismutase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of superoxide dismutase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of copper ions into a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of copper ions into a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity is lower than normal during a cellular response to nutrient .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the meiotic cell cycle is arrested during the first meiotic interphase ,  before premeiotic dna replication has taken place .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is abnormal .
a phenotype in which the structure of the glycan moiety of a glycoprotein differs from wild type .
a phenotype in which the glycan moiety of a glycoprotein does not contain galactose residues .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which udp - galactose transmembrane transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which udp - galactose transmembrane transport occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which udp - galactose transmembrane transport is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of ribosome binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which ribosome binding by a gene product does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of autophosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ubiquitin - dependent protein degradation via the n - end rule pathway is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of ubiquitin - dependent protein degradation via the n - end rule pathway is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which ubiquitin - dependent protein degradation via the n - end rule pathway begins later than normal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus is located near one cell tip  ( instead of at the midpoint of the long axis of the cell )  during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the post - anaphase array of microtubules is present in an abnormal location .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mitotic spindle midzone ,  the area in the center of the mitotic spindle where the spindle microtubules from opposite poles overlap ,  is abnormal .
a spindle phenotype in which polar microtubules fail to interdigitate properly ,  and two partially or completely separated microtubule structures ,  usually v - shaped ,  each corresponding to one half of the spindle ,  are present .
a cell population phenotype in which the mitotic index is lower than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the mitotic index is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of imp cyclohydrolase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which imp cyclohydrolase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxamide formyltransferase  ( aicar formyltransferase )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which phosphoribosylaminoimidazolecarboxamide formyltransferase  ( aicar formyltransferase )  activity is absent .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube ,  and in which the nucleus does not divide .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the activation of monopolar cell growth occurs at the new end of the cell ,  instead of at the old end ,  following cell division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain detectable actin cables .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the growing cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a growing cell tip is decreased ,  and the protein is also detected distributed throughout the plasma membrane and / or cell cortex .
a cell adhesion phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which galactose - specific flocculation does not occur .
a cell adhesion phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mannose - specific flocculation is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nadh dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nadh dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of succinate dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which succinate dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity is absent .
a phenotype in which the spectrum of light absorption observed in whole cells or isolated mitochondria ,  and attributed to cytochromes present ,  differs from wild type .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of methotrexate than normal .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of microtubules is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are curved ,  i .e .
a microtubule organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the orientation of cytoplasmic microtubules within a cell is abnormal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip does not occur during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the new mitotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single cell is inviable ,  and grows in the form of a lemon prior to cell death .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the septin ring is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype that reflects increased occurrence of galactose - specific flocculation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the actomyosin contractile ring for a longer time than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell septum is increased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the actomyosin contractile ring is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actomyosin contractile ring assembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle is decreased when the cell is in a population that has been in stationary phase and is then placed in conditions that allow recovery .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains more than one nucleus ,  is longer than normal ,  and has a greater length:diameter ratio than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is elongated ,  has two or more nuclei and more than one septum ,  and the septa not grouped together ,  but are located so as to form separate compartments with a single nucleus in each .
a cell morphology phenotype observed when a cell population is in stationary phase in which a cell is elongated ,  has two or more nuclei and more than one septum ,  and the septa not grouped together ,  but are located so as to form separate compartments with a single nucleus in each .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation does not occur ;  arrest normally occurs in g1 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which reciprocal meiotic recombination is abnormal at the silent mating - type cassettes .
a molecular function phenotype in which the substrate specificity of a catalytic activity differs from wild type .
a molecular function phenotype in which the substrate specificity of a gene product that executes glutathione synthetase activity in wild type is altered such that the gene product executes homoglutathione synthetase activity .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone during anaphase b is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone during anaphase b does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the kinetochore of a chromosome for a longer time than normal .
a dna recombination phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna double - strand break formation occurs to a lower extent than normal during gene conversion at the mating - type locus .
a dna recombination phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna double - strand break formation is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which the glycan moiety of a glycoprotein contains a lower amount of galactose residues than normal .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize sulfur - containing amino acids ,  and therefore requires one or more sulfur - containing amino acids  ( e .g .
a phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to papuamide b during mating .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to filipin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to miconazole .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to myriocin .
a molecular function phenotype in which superoxide dismutase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of superoxide dismutase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein acetylation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cytogamy does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a cell has a nucleus in an abnormal location during mating .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of pyridoxine into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of pyridoxine into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize pyridoxine ,  and therefore requires pyridoxine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of sodium fluoride than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sodium fluoride .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of coenzyme q10 measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of ubiquinone binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to nitrosative stress is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division ,  in which homologous chromosomes are normally paired and segregated from each other ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division ,  in which two chromatids in each chromosome are normally separated ,  does not occur .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of the first meiotic nuclear division ,  in which homologous chromosomes are normally paired and segregated from each other ,  is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glycerol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of acetate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of tert - butyl hydroperoxide  ( tbhp or t - booh )  than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to chromium ions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of cadmium ions measured in a cell is higher than normal during a cellular response to cadmium ion .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of superoxide dismutase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of catalase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of biotin into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable ,  is elongated ,  has a larger diameter than normal near the equator  ( but not at the ends )  ,  and has an overall volume greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the medial cortex is observed there .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of ubiquinone binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of ubiquinone binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which electron transport involved in cellular respiration is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial electron transport from nadh to ubiquinone is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial electron transport from succinate to ubiquinone ,  mediated by complex ii ,  does not occur .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of ricinoleic acid than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of the 35s rrna primary transcript measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any 32s rrna precursor measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 27s ribosomal rna precursor measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 20s ribosomal rna precursor measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to osmotic stress is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glyoxalase iii activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which glyoxalase iii activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glyoxalase iii activity is decreased .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of methylglyoxal than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of glyoxal than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to methylglyoxal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the formation of nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenh3  ( also called cenp - a ;  cnp1 in s . pombe )  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenh3  ( also called cenp - a ;  cnp1 in s . pombe )  are assembled over a larger portion of the centromeric region of the chromosome than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromere inner repeat regions is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat regions is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  forms one or more branches near a septum ,  is elongated ,  and has more than one septum .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell septum is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h4 acetylation occurs to a greater extent than normal at the central core of centromeric regions .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more cytoplasmic membrane - bounded vesicles than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule plus ends remain in contact with the cell cortex at cell tips for a longer time than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which malate dehydrogenase  ( decarboxylating )   ( nad +  )  activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of malate dehydrogenase  ( decarboxylating )   ( nad +  )  activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glutathione  ( gsh )  measured in a cell is higher than normal during a cellular response to cadmium .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of nitric oxide measured in a cell is lower than normal during a cellular response to cadmium .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated and tapered ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mitochondrial rna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mitochondrial rna measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another does not occur during a cellular response to rapamycin .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to a pheromone is lower than normal .
a phenotype in which one or more transfer rna  ( trna )  molecules contains fewer queuosine residues than normal .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize arginine or cysteine ,  and therefore requires arginine and cysteine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains fewer ,  and shorter ,  cytoplasmic microtubules than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer microtubules than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to histone h3 methylated on the lysine at position 9 does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to histone h3 methylated on the lysine at position 9 is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ornithine carbamoyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ornithine carbamoyltransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ornithine carbamoyltransferase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during the g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which a protein kinase activity is absent during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins later than normal after the cell has been arrested in g1 phase due to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum that has branches .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell lyses ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to all or part of the actin cytoskeleton is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to one or more actin cables does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which medial cortical nodes move less frequently ,  and over shorter distances ,  than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which medial cortical nodes move in random directions such that they do not undergo an overall movement towards the cell center .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is greater than in wild type during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of srp - dependent cotranslational protein targeting to the er membrane is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of glycosylated protein measured the cell is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  has a larger volume than normal ,  and in which vacuoles are more visible  ( usually by microscopy )  than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g1 / s phase transition ,  under conditions where arrest is not a normal occurrence .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished during anaphase of the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which a protein is observed in a particular location where it is not normally found .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleus is observed there .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleus is observed there during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of the breakdown of arginine into other compounds ,  including proline ,  is decreased .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize methionine or purines ,  and therefore requires methionine and at least one purine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of homocysteine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity does not increase as a result of a salt stress stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is subject to salt stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is subject to oxidative stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which alpha , alpha - trehalase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity is lower than normal during a cellular response to heat .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha , alpha - trehalase activity is lower than normal during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of trehalose measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rna splice site specificity differs from normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rna splicing is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  splicing is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mrna splicing via the spliceosome is increased .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has more than one septum apiece during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is subject to salt stress .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation despite abnormal chromosome segregation ,  producing inviable daughter cells ,  and in which the septum forms in a position that partitions both nuclei into one compartment ,  when the cell is subject to salt stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleus is broken into multiple small fragments that are smaller than a normal nucleus ,  hen the cell is subject to salt stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of arsenate reductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of arsenate reductase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to an arsenic - containing substance such as arsenate .
a cellular process phenotype that affects signal transduction .
a signal transduction phenotype in which the mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis is activated continuously .
a phenotype in which one or more transfer rna  ( trna )  molecules contains no queuosine residues .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable and elongated ,  and in which mitosis begins when the cell is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a protein is localized to discrete regions in the cytoplasm ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  to a greater extent observed than in normal  ( wild type )  cells .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally localized to discrete regions in the nucleus ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  is abnormally localized such that fewer dots are observed than in normal  ( wild type )  cells during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the biosynthesis of dna does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred is abolished .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to ionizing radiation .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to ionizing radiation is abnormal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is greater than in wild type during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ultraviolet light during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of beta - glucanase ,  any enzyme that degrades cell wall polysaccharides by hydrolyzing beta - glucan linkages ,  than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of hypothemycin than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to l - azetidine - 2 - carboxylic acid .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of azetidine - 2 - carboxylic acid acetyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which azetidine - 2 - carboxylic acid acetyltransferase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of azetidine - 2 - carboxylic acid acetyltransferase activity is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of nuclear dna replication begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of pre - replicative complex assembly is increased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  forms one or more branches near a septum ,  is elongated ,  and has more than one septum .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable ,  is normal length ,  and contains one nucleus and no septum .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing raffinose as the carbon source .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a normal length .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in the plasma membrane is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which glutathione gamma - glutamylcysteinyltransferase activity is absent .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of l - ergothioneine measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of hercynine  ( n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - trimethyl - l - histidine )  measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of hercynylcysteine sulfoxide measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of hercynylselenocysteine measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of l - selenoneine measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - ergothioneine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - selenoneine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of hercynine  ( n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - trimethyl - l - histidine )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of hercynylcysteine sulfoxide measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of hercynylselenocysteine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of l - ergothioneine measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of hercynylcysteine sulfoxide measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of hercynylselenocysteine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cytoskeleton organization is abnormal at one or both cell tips .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the addition of actin monomers to a filament occurs to a greater extent than normal at one or both cell tips .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin filament - based movement is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the cell tip is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the actomyosin contractile ring is observed there .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that enters the cell cycle and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division ,  but then becomes elongated and undergoes cell cycle arrest in interphase of the mitotic cell cycle ,  and eventually dies .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the s - phase dna damage checkpoint  ( also known as the intra - s phase dna damage checkpoint )  is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which peroxisome size is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which the monopolar index is higher than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the bipolar index is higher than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the monopolar index is lower than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the bipolar index is lower than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the septation index is higher than normal in a population in stationary phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of premeiotic dna replication is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is decreased  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is decreased  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is abolished .
a cell phenotype in which the number of sites of double - strand breaks in dna is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the number of sites of double - strand breaks in dna is greater than normal during a meiotic cell cycle .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of mitotic cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by the dna replication checkpoint is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of dna damage measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dna damage measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle does not occur after the cell has been arrested in g1 phase due to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of a protein in a cell during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which an rna catabolic process is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of degradation of rna transcribed from middle meiotic genes is increased during late meiosis .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing in subtelomeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of rna transcription from a dna template is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of antisense rna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any rna transcribed from repeat elements ,  such as ltrs ,  retrotransposons ,  or wtf elements ,  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to doxorubicin .
a cell phenotype in which spindle pole body organization is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which prospore - specific spindle pole body remodeling is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the horsetail nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which generation of double - strand breaks at defined hotspots throughout the genome during meiosis i is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a greater extent than normal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle pole body separation begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the insertion of the mitotic spindle pole body localization into the nuclear envelope is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the insertion of a spindle pole body  ( spb )  into the nuclear envelope is abnormal ,  and the spb enters the nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the insertion of a spindle pole body  ( spb )  into the nuclear envelope is abnormal ,  and the spb enters the cytoplasm .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during a mitotic or meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in heterochromatin at the silenced mating - type cassettes occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at the silenced mating - type cassettes is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin in subtelomeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the transport of a substance from the plasma membrane to the vacuole does not occur when the cell is subject to ,  or recovering from ,  nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which vacuolar transport is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein sad1 accumulates is greater than normal during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein kms1 accumulates is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein kms1 accumulates is greater than normal during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of formation of foci containing the protein sad1 is increased during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining  ( nhej )  is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of ubiquitin - dependent protein degradation with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by the anaphase - promoting complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome ,  is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork processing is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the increase in gross chromosomal rearrangements that normally results from processing arrested replication forks is diminished or abolished .
a cell phenotype in which the increase in gross chromosomal rearrangements that normally results from processing arrested replication forks is enhanced ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the increase in small deletions or duplications  (  \ "replication slippage \ " )  that normally results from processing arrested replication forks is diminished or abolished .
a cell phenotype in which vacuoles are smaller than normal during sporulation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to a protein complex is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to the anaphase - promoting complex  ( apc )  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of ubiquitin - dependent protein degradation with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by the anaphase - promoting complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome ,  is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of ubiquitin - dependent protein degradation with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by the anaphase - promoting complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single cell grows in a shape that consists of two curves in opposite directions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mature 3' end of an snrna molecule is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mature 3' end of an snrna molecule is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mature 3' end of an snrna molecule is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mature 3' end of an snrna molecule is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any rrna precursor measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any rrna precursor measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mrna splicing via the spliceosome is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which sister chromatids become physically detached from one another during the first meiotic nuclear division ,  instead of remaining attached and segregating together .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division is shorter than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the mitotic or meiotic spindle is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dehydrodolichyl diphosphate synthase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dehydrodolichyl diphosphate synthase activity is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated and a branch forms adjacent to an existing septum .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions is higher than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which cells in a population of spores are viable .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the cell does not contain a detectable meiotic spindle during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which generation of double - strand breaks at defined hotspots throughout the genome during meiosis i is decreased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to fluphenazine .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cytochalasin d . cells stop growing  ( and may die )  at a concentration of cytochalasin d that allows wild type cells to grow .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mrna splicing via the spliceosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any unspliced or incompletely spliced mrna precursor measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which posttranscriptional addition of a methyl group to the 2' - oxygen atom of a nucleotide residue in an u6 snrna molecule is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which posttranscriptional addition of a methyl group to the 2' - oxygen atom of the adenine residue at position 41 in an u6 snrna molecule is abolished .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues of one or more specific proteins is decreased during a cellular response to heat .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which any process of ribonucleoprotein complex assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which spliceosomal tri - snrnp complex assembly is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which u2 - type prespliceosome assembly is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which u2 - type prespliceosome assembly is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one gene product  ( rna or protein )  to a ribonucleoprotein complex is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which u1 snrnp binding by a gene product does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which u1 snrnp binding by a gene product is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which u2 snrnp binding by a gene product does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which u2 snrnp binding by a gene product is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of adp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of adp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell wall biogenesis is abolished .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of adenylate kinase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of adenylate kinase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of urease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of urease activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect during a cellular response to thiamine starvation .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of pyrithiamine than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of sorbose into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing xanthine as the nitrogen source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing hypoxanthine as the nitrogen source .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to glucose starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to nitrosative stress is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription initiation from an rna polymerase iii promoter is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription elongation from an rna polymerase iii promoter occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which cysteine synthase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the splicing trna substrates does not occur .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to vanadate ions  ( vo4 ( 3 -  )  )  .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the endoplasmic reticulum is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the membrane of any part of the golgi apparatus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which all or part of the mating - type region is duplicated or deleted upon mating type switching .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break repair occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining  ( nhej )  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of double - strand break repair via an error - free mechanism ,  such as homologous recombination or break - induced replication ,  is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of rna pyrophosphohydrolase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which rna pyrophosphohydrolase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of rna pyrophosphohydrolase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of crossover junction endodeoxyribonuclease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which crossover junction endodeoxyribonuclease activity is absent .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of caffeine than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype in which rna splicing does not take place at a set of splice sites that are normally used ,  such that an exon is omitted from the mature rna .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to mycophenolic acid .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of atp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which atp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of atp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which atpase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of the large form of 5 .8s rrna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which maturation of a precursor 5s ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature 5s rrna molecule is abnormal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms one or more branches near a septum ,  is elongated ,  has more than one septum ,  and is curved along the long axis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of doxorubicin measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to epirubicin .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a protein found associated with chromatin at the centromere outer repeat regions is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  is elongated ,  does not contain a septum ,  and contains more than one nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which any process of spliceosomal complex assembly is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any macromolecular complex present in a cell differs from wild type .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer u2 / u5 / u6 snrnp complexes than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mature 3' end of a box c / d snorna molecule is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleolus is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleolus is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleolus is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing glycerol and ethanol as the carbon sources .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 5 - demethoxyubiquinone - 10  (  ) 2 - decaprenyl - 3 - methyl - 6 - methoxy - 1 , 4 - benzoquinone ,  an intermediate in ubiquinone biosynthesis )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to oxidative stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of  ( s2 -  ,  also called acid labile sulfide )  measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 18s ribosomal rna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer free small ribosomal subunits in the cytosol than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more free large ribosomal subunits in the cytosol than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more extensions of the cell wall protrude into the cytoplasm .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleolus contains one or more spherical structures of great electron density that are not found in wild type cells .
a cellular process phenotype in which the intramolecular conversion of uridine to pseudouridine does not occur at a specific site in an rrna molecule that is normally modified .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of snorna primary transcripts measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the nucleus contains one or more foci that are enriched in polyadenylated rna and are not found in wild - type cells .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of histone deacetylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of histone deacetylase activity is decreased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to trapoxin a .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a conjugation phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation with wild type h +  cells .
a cell adhesion phenotype in which cells adhere to other cells of compatible mating type less strongly or to a lower extent than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a pear ,  and has a larger volume than normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain any detectable skb1 - containing lateral cortical nodes .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more skb1 - containing lateral cortical nodes than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to skb1 - containing lateral cortical nodes does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to skb1 - containing lateral cortical nodes is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to skb1 - containing lateral cortical nodes is abolished ,  and the protein is instead detected distributed throughout the plasma membrane and / or cell cortex .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to skb1 - containing lateral cortical nodes is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the nucleus instead .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the actin cytoskeleton is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tributyltin .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the 2' - o - methylation of a nucleotide residue does not occur at a specific site in an rrna molecule that is normally modified .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the removal of leader sequences to generate the mature 5' - end of a trna occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of bis ( 5' - adenosyl )  - hexaphosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of bis ( 5' - adenosyl )  - hexaphosphatase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of bis ( 5' - adenosyl )  - hexaphosphatase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any myo - inositol pentakisphosphate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype in which the glycan moiety of a glycoprotein in the cell wall does not contain galactose residues .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the galactosylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the nuclear periphery is observed there .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing galactose as the carbon source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain any detectable respiratory chain complex iv in the mitochondria .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alcohol dehydrogenase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alcohol dehydrogenase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which a gene product that normally binds to a specific dna sequence instead binds to a different sequence when a gene is mutated .
a cell population phenotype in which the mitotic index is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  begins later than normal during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested when cells have condensed chromosomes ,  but show no other signs of having entered mitosis or m phase ,  under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at a replication origin by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the formation of nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenh3  ( also called cenp - a ;  cnp1 in s . pombe )  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which cytochrome - c oxidase activity is absent .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division during which chromosomes segregate unequally ,  and then dies .
a cell growth phenotype in which cell population growth is decreased relative to normal under conditions of glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h3 acetylation occurs to a greater extent than normal in the central core of the centromeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in heterochromatin islands occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during meiosis ,  and that contain determinant of selective removal  ( dsr )  sequences ,  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to nuclear bodies is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of m7g ( 5' ) pppn diphosphatase activity does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains a normal number of nuclear pore complexes .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the nuclear envelope is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total amount of polyadenylated messenger rna  ( mrna )  measured in the nucleus is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more specific polyadenylated messenger rnas  ( mrnas )  measured in the nucleus is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more than one mitotic spindle .
a phenotype that shows detectable differences from normal at the level of an individual cell ,  when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has more than one mitotic spindle ,  and mitotic sister chromatid separation does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes ;  some ,  but not all ,  dna may be moved towards the ends of an elongated mitotic spindle .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic spindle elongation begins ,  but mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology that undergoes one or two rounds of cell division ,  and all cells produced arrest the cell cycle with a single nucleus and then die .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology that undergoes one or two rounds of cell division ,  and all cells produced arrest the cell cycle with a cut phenotype ,  and then die .
obsolete .a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology that undergoes one or two rounds of cell division ,  and all cells produced arrest the cell cycle with a septum separating a compartment with one nucleus and a second compartment with no nucleus ,  and then die .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable and contains one nucleus and no septum .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology that undergoes one or two rounds of cell division ,  and all cells produced arrest the cell cycle with one nucleus and no septum ,  and then die .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial dna molecules are interlinked by unresolved recombination junctions .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of crossover junction endodeoxyribonuclease activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitochondrion is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mitochondrial dna present in the cell is lower than normal .
a transcription regulation phenotype in which pheromone - responsive positive regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane surrounding the cell tip is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of messenger rna derived from transposon - encoded genes measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more transposon - encoded proteins measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of cdna derived from transposon - encoded genes measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of dna recombination between cdnas derived from transposon - encoded genes is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of pseudohyphal growth is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endoplasmic reticulum is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endoplasmic reticulum tubular network is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the nuclear envelope is abnormal during mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the nuclear envelope is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the nuclear envelope is normal  ( i .e .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear pore localization is normal  ( i .e .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear pore localization is abnormal ,  resulting in an abnormal spatial arrangement of nuclear pores within the nuclear envelope ,  during mitosis .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology that undergoes one or two rounds of cell division ,  and all cells produced arrest the cell cycle with a septum and a nucleus in one compartment ,  and then die .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains one nucleus and no septum .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the central core of the centromeric regions is abolished .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form mitotic spindle microtubules that are longer than normal ,  and extend beyond the spindle pole body .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nuclear envelope has one or more extensions that protrude into the cytoplasm during mitosis .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of the second meiotic nuclear division ,  in which two chromatids in each chromosome are normally separated ,  is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of reciprocal meiotic recombination is increased at the silent mating - type cassettes .
a cellular process phenotype in which generation of double - strand breaks at defined hotspots throughout the genome during meiosis i is increased at the silent mating - type cassettes .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to osmotic stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glycerol measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of alpha - d - glucan measured in the cell wall is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter does not occur .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at an origin of replication is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in telomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome is decreased .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing one or more non - fermentable substance ( s )  as the only carbon source ( s )  .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing one or more non - fermentable substance ( s )  as the only carbon source ( s )  .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria form branched structures .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of mitochondria is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which total mitochondrial volume is normal ,  but mitochondria are smaller and more numerous than normal .
an abnormal intracellular mitochondrion distribution phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria cluster together more than normal with a cluster distal to only one side of the nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome positioning is abnormal near the promoter regions of genes that are expressed in response to stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome positioning is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to the s phase dna damage checkpoint  ( also known as the intra - s phase dna damage checkpoint )  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to the s phase dna damage checkpoint  ( also known as the intra - s phase dna damage checkpoint )  is decreased .
auxotrophy in which a cell requires histidine or lysine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' - 3' dna helicase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which 5' - 3' dna helicase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' - 3' dna helicase activity is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains fewer mitochondria than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a ribonuclease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a ribonuclease activity is decreased .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation despite abnormal chromosome segregation ,  producing inviable daughter cells ,  and in which the septum forms in a position that partitions both nuclei into one compartment ,  when a cell is exposed to hydroxyurea .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of higher concentrations of caffeine and rapamycin than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable and has two nuclei but no septum ,  and the mitotic cell cycle is arrested with nuclei at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  has two nuclei but no septum ,  and the mitotic cell cycle is arrested with nuclei at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the ribosomal small subunit protein s6 is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the ribosomal small subunit protein s6 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle elongation does not occur .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the cytokinesis checkpoint of a mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to the cytokinesis after mitosis checkpoint does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell cycle progression is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell proceeds normally through a specific cell cycle phase .
a cell cycle phenotype in the duration of meiotic interphase ,  which begins after cytokinesis and ends when meiotic prophase begins ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which horsetail movement is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of rna polymerase ii carboxy - terminal domain kinase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of rna polymerase ii carboxy - terminal domain kinase activity is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleolus is abnormal during mitotic nuclear division .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to carbendazim  ( mecarzole ;  mbc )  .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone is decreased .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that undergoes a single round of cell division in which mitotic sister chromatid separation does not occur ,  and then dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that undergoes a single round of cell division during which chromosomes segregate unequally ,  and then dies .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation does not occur over all or part of the chromosomes .
a transport phenotype in which protein localization to the prospore membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which spores germinate to a lower extent than wild type following exposure to acetone .
a cellular process phenotype in which conjugation does not occur in cells of the h -  mating type .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to hydrazinocurcumin .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to fluconazole .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to an oligomycin antibiotic .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to mtt  ( 3 -  ( 4 , 5 - dimethylthiazol - 2 - yl )  - 2 , 5 - diphenyltetrazolium bromide )  .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to fr901464 .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to mevastatin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to etoposide .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to wortmannin .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of miconazole than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the ph of a growth medium in which a cell population grows to stationary phase decreases to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of oxidation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is increased ,  resulting in the accumulation of proteins with oxidative modifications including carbonylated proteins ,  in cells in a population in stationary phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of oxidation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is increased ,  resulting in the accumulation of proteins with oxidative modifications including carbonylated proteins .
a cell phenotype in which the amount a specific substance measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell when the cell is in g0 phase is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of ubiquitinated protein measured in the cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a cell contains fewer mitochondria than normal during g0 phase .
a cell phenotype observed in which the amount of protein encoded by genes normally induced by exposure to hydrogen peroxide measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype observed in which the amount of protein encoded by genes normally induced by exposure to cadmium ions measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of chromatin organization is abnormal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of glutathione measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in g0 phase in which the nucleus contains one or more structures of great electron density that are not found in wild type cells .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is elongated and inviable ,  and prior to death the cell undergoes a mitotic g2 / m transition that begins later than normal ,  followed by cell cycle arrest in m phase .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the cytokinesis after mitosis checkpoint of a mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell undergoes one round of cell division ,  instead of the normal two rounds ,  prior to entering quiescence  ( g0 )  .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to monensin .
a cell phenotype in which changes in vacuolar morphology or function associated with cell aging begin later than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mitochondrial dna measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of cyclosporin a binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of sanglifehrin a binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nad ( p ) h oxidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nad ( p ) h oxidase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which endocytosis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which endocytosis does not occur during a meiotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the fungal - type cell wall is thicker than normal at the new end of the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the fungal - type cell wall is thinner than normal at the old end of the cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which primary cell septum biogenesis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of intragenic meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which error - prone translesion synthesis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the insertion of atp opposite an 8 - oxo - 7 , 8 - dihydroguanosine  ( 8oxodg )  residue in dna does not occur .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to rotenone .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of rotenone than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the mitochondrion is normal  ( i .e .
an abnormal intracellular mitochondrion distribution phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria cluster together more than normal during a cellular response to reactive oxygen species .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a triphosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a triphosphatase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a triphosphatase activity is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of etoposide than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells are grown at a temperature lower than standard .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to okadaic acid .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from antisense transcription of genes that are expressed in response to stress measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is greater than normal at promoters containing cre sites .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of retrotransposon nucleocapsid complexes  ( also called virus - like particles ,  vlps )  to the nucleus is abolished .
a translation phenotype in which a trna pairs with mrna at the stop codon uga ,  and incorporates an amino acid residue into the nascent polypeptide .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break repair via homologous recombination occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype in which minichromosomes are lost at a lower frequency than normal during the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is higher than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in the mitochondrion is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the degradation of messenger rna  ( mrna )  molecules that contain nonsense mutations is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the degradation of messenger rna  ( mrna )  molecules that contain nonsense mutations is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the degradation of messenger rna  ( mrna )  molecules that contain nonsense mutations does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at the mating - type locus occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at abnormal replication fork arrest at sites within the eukaryotic rdna repeat spacer occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at abnormal replication fork arrest at sites within the eukaryotic trna transcription unit occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of dna strand elongation involved in mitotic nuclear dna replication is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dna damage measured at arrested replication forks in a cell is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of dna strand elongation involved in mitotic nuclear dna replication is decreased in regions where rna polymerase ii actively transcribes genes .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains a larger number of sites where replication forks have converged than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population is viable when double - strand breaks in dna are continually made  ( for example ,  by constitutive expression of a nuclease )  .
a cell phenotype in which the repair of double - strand breaks in dna that are continually made  ( for example ,  by constitutive expression of a nuclease )  results in repair junctions that differ from wild type .
a cell phenotype in which spores germinate to a lower extent than wild type following exposure to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has no septum and is inviable .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an exonucleolytic rna catabolic process that proceeds in the 5' to 3' direction to degrade mrna encoded in the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of an exonucleolytic rna catabolic process that proceeds in the 5' to 3' direction to degrade mrna encoded in the nucleus is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an rna catabolic process that degrades mrna encoded in the nucleus does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the golgi apparatus is decreased ,  and the protein is present in the endoplasmic reticulum instead .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the golgi apparatus is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype in which cell population growth is increased relative to normal .
a cell growth phenotype in which cell population growth is increased relative to normal under conditions of glucose starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of m7g ( 5' ) pppn diphosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which m7g ( 5' ) pppn diphosphatase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of m7g ( 5' ) pppn diphosphatase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of m7g ( 5' ) pppn diphosphatase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of thioredoxin peroxidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of thioredoxin peroxidase activity is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process is increased during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the degradation of messenger rna  ( mrna )  molecules that contain nonsense mutations is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sulfite reductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sulfite reductase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at replication origins is decreased .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to heat .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  begins later than normal during a cellular response to oxidative stress .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which triglyceride biosynthesis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which triglyceride biosynthesis is decreased .
a cellular metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which triglyceride biosynthesis is increased .
a translation phenotype in which a trna pairs with mrna at the stop codon uaa ,  and incorporates an amino acid residue into the nascent polypeptide .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional addition of two methyl groups to the n2 position of a guanine residue in a trna molecule is abolished .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of diacylglycerol o - acyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of diacylglycerol o - acyltransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of diacylglycerol o - acyltransferase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phospholipid:diacylglycerol acyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phospholipid:diacylglycerol acyltransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a glutathione disulfide oxidoreductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a glutathione disulfide oxidoreductase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a glutathione disulfide oxidoreductase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is lover than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an elongated germ tube that has a larger diameter and volume than normal ,  then initiates growth from the opposite end of the spore body ,  and does not go on to form a viable dividing cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a mitotic spindle in an abnormal location .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes ,  and partially separated dna masses are connected by one or more bridges formed of chromatin .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division in which cells do not completely separate upon cytokinesis ,  form septa that are thicker than normal ,  and then die .
a cellular process phenotype in which exit from mitosis is abnormal .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear pore localization is abnormal ,  resulting in an abnormal spatial arrangement of nuclear pores within the nuclear envelope .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more clusters of nuclear pores ,  associated with membrane fragments derived from the nuclear envelope ,  are present in the cytoplasm .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nuclear envelope is broken into multiple small fragments ,  none of which completely surrounds the contents of the nucleus .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  and has a nuclear envelope that is broken into multiple small fragments during mitotic telophase .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  and one or more clusters of nuclear pores are present in the cytoplasm during mitotic telophase .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  and has a nuclear envelope that is broken into multiple small fragments and one or more clusters of nuclear pores present in the cytoplasm during mitotic telophase .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested when cells have condensed chromosomes ,  a single ,  normally located septum ,  and 1c dna content in each nucleus ,  under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione transferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione transferase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of disulfide oxidoreductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of disulfide oxidoreductase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of an amino acid measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of an amino acid measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of an amino acid measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of actin cortical patches is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has actin cortical patches in one or more abnormal locations .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable and has one nucleus ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to dna damage during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is higher than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to menadione is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to menadione is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of succinate dehydrogenase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna primase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna primase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna primase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna primase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione synthase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate - cysteine ligase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glutathione  ( gsh )  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein phosphorylation is longer than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork processing begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which pre - replicative complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which a gene product binds chromatin over a larger portion of the chromosome than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to menadione is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to menadione is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription of ribosomal dna into ribosomal rna occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription of ribosomal dna into ribosomal rna occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of translation of one or more ribosomal proteins is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of degradation of one or more ribosomal proteins is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 4 , 6 - pyruvylated d - galactose  ( 4 , 6 - o -  [  ( 1r )  - 1 - carboxyethylidene ]  - d - galactose )  measured at the cell surface is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 4 , 6 - pyruvylated d - galactose  ( 4 , 6 - o -  [  ( 1r )  - 1 - carboxyethylidene ]  - d - galactose )  measured at the cell surface is lower than normal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to ultraviolet light  ( uv )  is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains a normal number of mitochondria .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of mitochondrial dna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of cytochrome - c oxidase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial electron transport from nadh to ubiquinone is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial electron transport from succinate to ubiquinone is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial electron transport from succinate to ubiquinone is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form polar microtubules that are longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in metaphase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur ,  with polar microtubules that are longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the mitotic spindle for a longer time than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to cytoplasmic stress granules is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of the tubulin poison carbendazim  ( mecarzole ;  mbc )  than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the increase in gross chromosomal rearrangements that normally results from synthesis template switching during processing of arrested replication forks is diminished or abolished .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' deoxyribonuclease  ( pyrimidine dimer )  activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' deoxyribonuclease  ( pyrimidine dimer )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which 5' deoxyribonuclease  ( pyrimidine dimer )  activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' deoxyribonuclease  ( pyrimidine dimer )  activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which uv - damage excision repair occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at ribosomal dna repeat regions is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at trna genes is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione transferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of thioredoxin - disulfide reductase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of thioredoxin - disulfide reductase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to mercury ions is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which an increase in rna level that occurs as part of a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide begins later than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which primary amine oxidase activity is absent .
a cell cycle phenotype that affects or involves the normal or abnormal occurrence of mitotic cell cycle arrest .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a primary amine oxidase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms pieces of a septum rather than a septum that completely bisects the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains four nuclei .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains four nuclei and is elongated .
a cell morphology phenotype in which vegetative a cell is elongated ,  and contains four nuclei and pieces of a septum that does not completely bisect the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains four nuclei and pieces of a septum that does not completely bisect the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains two nuclei and pieces of a septum that does not completely bisect the cell .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione peroxidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione peroxidase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione transferase activity is decreased in a cell culture in stationary phase .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione transferase activity is increased in a cell culture in stationary phase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to ultraviolet light .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of intragenic meiotic recombination is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of reciprocal meiotic recombination at a cre promoter in a chromosome is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which reciprocal meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which endocytosis does not occur during meiotic interphase ii ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which uv - damage excision repair occurs to a lower extent than normal during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein phosphorylation is longer than normal during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to all or part of the cytoplasm is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription of rna from one or more dna templates is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the elongation of a transcript initiated from an rna polymerase ii promoter is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at one or more protein - coding genes is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 2 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 5 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 2 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect during a cellular response to copper ion starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to copper ions is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect during a cellular response to a pheromone .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of cell cycle arrest in response to a pheromone occurs in g1 phase ,  but begins only after the cells have undergone two rounds of cell division in the presence of the pheromone .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of cell cycle arrest in response to a pheromone occurs in g1 phase ,  but begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell growth is decreased .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated ,  has more than one septum ,  and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division .
a sporulation phenotype that results in the formation of an ascus that contains a single spore that is larger than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which phosphorylation of serine at position 10 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which phosphorylation of serine at position 10 of histone h3 is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at trna genes is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell that is subject to nitrogen starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell growth is decreased during the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which centromere clustering is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell population phenotype in which astral microtubules are present in a greater than normal proportion of the cells that have mitotic spindles .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the morphology of cytoplasmic microtubules is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of meiotic recombination is decreased during a zygotic meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the microtubule cytoskeleton is abolished .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the horsetail - astral microtubule array is abolished .
a meiosis phenotype in which meiotic telomere clustering is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of a protein in a cell during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cytoskeleton is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes ,  and most of the dna remains in a single mass at or near the midpoint of the mitotic spindle ,  but portions of the chromosomes can separate along the spindle ,  resulting in the formation of a dna mass shaped like the greek letter phi .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  is elongated ,  and contains a nucleus with abnormal morphology .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during mitosis prior to completion of chromosome segregation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of polyubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  and shaped in the form of a sphere .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  and shaped in the form of a sphere .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which polar cell growth does not occur .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  has no septum ,  and contains more than one nucleus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is higher than normal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the activation of monopolar cell growth ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during exit from mitosis is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  and that is smaller than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  and that has a septum with abnormal size ,  shape ,  or structure .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  and that has a septum with abnormal size ,  shape ,  or structure and a nucleus that is larger than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  and that has a diameter larger than normal only near the middle of the cell ,  around the nucleus .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  and that has a septum with normal size ,  shape ,  or structure .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that has one or more septa with normal size ,  shape ,  or structure ,  and that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division ,  and then dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that is elongated ,  has more than one nucleus ,  has one or more septa with abnormal size ,  shape ,  or structure ,  and that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division ,  and then dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that is smaller than normal ,  has a septum with abnormal size ,  shape ,  or structure ,  and that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division ,  and then dies .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of protein into the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to thiabendazole .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a glutathione disulfide oxidoreductase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to cadmium ions is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 at protein - coding genes occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a cysteine - type peptidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a cysteine - type peptidase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of succinate dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of succinate dehydrogenase  ( ubiquinone )  activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sulfite reductase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell that is subject to nitrogen starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to diethyl maleate is lower than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of copper ions than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in telomeric regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in telomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell that is subject to nitrogen starvation differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of glutathione  ( gsh )  measured in a cell that is subject to nitrogen starvation is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of glutathione  ( gsh )  measured in a cell that is subject to nitrogen starvation is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding at an rna polymerase ii proximal promoter by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of nitrite  ( no2 -  )  ions measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of catalase activity is decreased during a cellular response to nitrosative stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyridoxine:nadp 4 - dehydrogenase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyridoxine:nadp 4 - dehydrogenase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyridoxine:nadp 4 - dehydrogenase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyridoxamine - phosphate oxidase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyridoxal kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of pyridoxamine 5' - phosphate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of pyridoxine measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of pyridoxal measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell population phenotype that reflects increased occurrence of flocculation when the population is in stationary phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during mitosis is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during mitosis is higher than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which vegetative a cell is elongated ,  and contains more than four nuclei and pieces of a septum that does not completely bisect the cell .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome segregation is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the meiotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to regions of chromatin containing genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is decreased .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells the population are subject to glucose starvation .
a cell population phenotype in which a larger than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells the population are subject to glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is higher than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glucose consumed by cells in a given time is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of oxygen consumed by cells in a given time is higher than in wild type .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is increased relative to normal in a medium containing glycerol as the carbon source .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase ,  under conditions of glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell that is subject to glucose starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during a cellular response to heat .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to heat .
a cellular process phenotype in which conjugation does not occur in cells of the h +  mating type .
a biological process phenotype in which the observed mating efficiency is lower than normal in cells of the h -  mating type .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to a pheromone that occurs when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell of the h -  mating type when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell of the h +  mating type when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small aggregates of misfolded protein fuse into larger aggregates to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein present as aggregates of misfolded protein is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the region of contact between two cells undergoing conjugation is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to papuamide b .
a phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to myriocin during mating .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein export from the nucleus does not occur during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydroxyurea is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to ionizing radiation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydroxyurea is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to ionizing radiation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydroxyurea is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated ,  has more than one septum and a nucleus that is broken into multiple small fragments ,  and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated ,  has a nucleus that is broken into multiple small fragments ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in interphase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is increased during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is increased during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small interfering rna transcripts derived from the centromere outer repeat region are present at lower levels than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which spliced forms of rnas transcribed from dg repeats in the centromere outer repeat region are present at lower levels than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of calcium ions into a cell occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature snrna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature sirna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature snrna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature sirna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of h3 - k4 specific histone methyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which h3 - k4 specific histone methyltransferase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic spindle elongation begins ,  but mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes ,  dna remains in a single mass at or near the midpoint of the mitotic spindle ,  and centromeric dna is not closely associated with the mitotic spindle .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic spindle elongation begins ,  but mitotic sister chromatid segregation stops before completing separation of chromosomes ,  dna remains in a single mass at or near the midpoint of the mitotic spindle ,  and centromeric dna is closely associated with the mitotic spindle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is decreased during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which the physical attachment of sister chromatids to mitotic spindle microtubules is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which monomethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which monomethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which monomethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of nucleosome binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which nucleosome binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of nucleosome binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of methylated histone binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which methylated histone binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation occurs in g1 phase ,  but its occurrence is decreased and begins later than normal .
a gene expression phenotype in which rna levels vary over the course of the mitotic cell cycle normally  ( i .e .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is not of uniform thickness ,  but instead the spindle midzone is thinner than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at centromere outer repeat regions of a chromosome is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 56 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of dna replication is decreased during a cellular response to dna damage .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during the s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during a cellular response to dna damage .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle during a cellular response to dna damage .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the fungal - type vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the vacuolar membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the vacuolar membrane is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the vacuolar membrane is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the extent of dna resection upstream of a stalled replication fork is greater than normal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of dna replication is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a nuclease activity is decreased .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to ultraviolet light  ( uv )  is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains one nucleus ,  is elongated ,  and is inviable .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single cell is viable ,  and grows in the form of a lemon .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more than one nucleus and has a larger volume than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which cell cycle regulation mediated by the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint does not occur under conditions that normally trigger the checkpoint signaling and response .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein is localized to the region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred for longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle and during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle and during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase ,  under conditions of nitrogen limitation ,  such as in a medium that contains a low level of nh4cl and no other nitrogen source .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of camp - dependent protein kinase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cortical microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cortical microtubule cytoskeleton does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which primary cell septum disassembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of septum disassembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dissolution of the cell septum edging material is abnormal ;  may result in the formation of chains of attached cells .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dissolution of the cell septum edging material is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dissolution of the cell septum edging material is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore release from an ascus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of ascospore release from an ascus is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore release from an ascus does not occur .
a transcription regulation phenotype in which any process of positive regulation of transcription is abnormal during g0 phase .
a transcription regulation phenotype in which any process of negative regulation of transcription is abnormal during g0 phase .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of uracil dna n - glycosylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of uracil dna n - glycosylase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of hypoxanthine dna n - glycosylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of hypoxanthine dna n - glycosylase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of xanthine dna n - glycosylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of xanthine dna n - glycosylase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of oxanine dna n - glycosylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of oxanine dna n - glycosylase activity is decreased .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining  ( nhej )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining  ( nhej )  is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the number of gt dinucleotide microsatellite repeats present in a sequence varies more than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and gu repeat regions in an rna is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at microsatellite repeat regions by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at gt dinucleotide microsatellite repeat regions by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the position or morphology of all or part of the septum is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a cell has a septum in an abnormal location .
a cell phenotype in which a cell has a septum in an abnormal location when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a physical cellular phenotype characterized by the presence of more than one septum in a cell .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the cell contains one or more septa .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains more than one septum when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of polynucleotide 5' - phosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which polynucleotide 5' - phosphatase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an atpase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid separation is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a phosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a phosphatase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a phosphatase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ctd phosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ctd phosphatase activity is decreased .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is longer than normal during metaphase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cenp - a - containing chromatin organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which anaphase b of mitosis begins later than normal .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the duration of m phase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to cenp - a containing chromatin is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to cenp - a containing chromatin is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to cenp - a containing chromatin is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cenp - a containing chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the microtubule cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the post - anaphase array of microtubules is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the post - anaphase array of microtubules is abnormal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which cell cycle regulation mediated by the mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint does not occur under conditions that normally trigger the checkpoint signaling and response .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of dna measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of dna measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenh3  ( also called cenp - a ;  cnp1 in s . pombe )  are assembled over a smaller portion of the centromeric region of the chromosome than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at positions 5 ,  8 ,  12 and 16 of histone h4 at the centromere central core occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 in at the centromere central core occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 5 - fluorouracil .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein phosphorylation is longer than normal during a cellular response to methylglyoxal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cellular protein localization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid separation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid separation is normal  ( i .e .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein degradation begins later than normal during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is increased during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another does not occur during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitochondrion is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitochondrion does not occur .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing ethanol as the carbon source .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial fission ,  the division of a mitochondrion into two or more separate compartments ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial fission ,  the division of a mitochondrion into two or more separate compartments ,  begins later than normal during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any rna transcribed from long terminal repeat elements  ( ltrs )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any rna transcribed from wtf elements measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a larger than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells the population are subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at long terminal repeats is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at non - coding rna genes is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions containing protein - coding genes .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to methylglyoxal is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to methylglyoxal is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is increased during a cellular response to methylglyoxal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during a cellular response to methylglyoxal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleolus is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during mitosis .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein phosphatase activity is increased during mitosis .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which cell cycle regulation mediated by the mitotic cell cycle dna replication checkpoint does not occur under conditions that normally trigger the checkpoint signaling and response .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of mitotic cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by the dna replication checkpoint is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which haploid cells undergo meiotic nuclear division and attempt to sporulate when the cells are subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to an old growing cell tip is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more messenger rnas that are normally expressed during a cellular response to stress measured in a cell differs from normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a dioxygenase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a dioxygenase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during a mitotic nuclear division results in the connection of both sister kinetochores to microtubules from the same spindle pole .
a cellular process phenotype in which assembly of the mitotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phytochelatin measured in the vacuole is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of cadmium ions into the vacuole occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by the s - phase dna damage checkpoint is lower than in wild type .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint is decreased .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is abolished when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ku - 0063794 .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at the silent mating - type cassettes is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at the silenced mating - type cassettes is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at the silenced mating - type cassettes is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin in pericentric regions is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during a mitotic nuclear division results in the connection of a single kinetochore to both spindle poles .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single kinetochore becomes attached to both spindle poles ,  and sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during mitosis prior to completion of chromosome segregation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle begins earlier than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of single - stranded dna binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of single - stranded dna binding by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which single - stranded dna binding by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of dna - directed dna polymerase activity occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more pyrimidine salvage rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more amino acid catabolism rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more arginine catabolism rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing uracil as the nitrogen source .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of dna - directed dna polymerase activity does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosomes or sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during meiosis i ,  but instead one or more chromosomes remain distant from the spindle pole after the bulk of the dna has separated .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosomes or sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during meiosis ii ,  but instead one or more chromosomes remain distant from the spindle pole after the bulk of the dna has separated .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is shorter than normal during metaphase .
a spindle phenotype in which mitotic spindle elongation ,  i .e .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of protein from the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of phenylarsine oxide than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to jm216  ( also called satraplatin )  .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of jm216  ( also called satraplatin )  than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to jm335 .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to triplatin tetranitrate  ( also called bbr 3464 )  .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tetraplatin .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone during anaphase does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a phosphatase activity is decreased during a cellular response to phosphate starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a phosphatase activity is increased during a cellular response to phosphate starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a phosphatase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to phosphate starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to phosphate starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation despite abnormal chromosome segregation ,  and in which the export of polyadenylated mrna from the nucleus is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is abolished ,  and the protein is instead present in the nucleus at a greater level than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of serine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of serine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of threonine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the dephosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the dephosphorylation of the ribosomal small subunit protein s6 begins later than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic cytokinesis is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction begins earlier than normal ,  e .g .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 2 - bromo - 2 -  (  (  ( 4 - methylphenyl ) sulfonyl ) methyl )  - 1 - indanone .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 2 - bromo - 1 -  ( 4 - methoxyphenyl )  - 3 -  (  ( 4 - methylphenyl ) sulfonyl )  - 1 - propanone .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to viridicatumtoxin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 4 - amino - 1 - methyl - 1h - imidazole - 5 - carboselenoamide .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tingenone .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which error - prone translesion synthesis occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of mitotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is longer than normal during anaphase .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is curved  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in the cytosol is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of calcium ion measured in the cytosol is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the prospore membrane is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the prospore membrane is decreased during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the prospore membrane is decreased ,  and the protein is instead present in the plasma membrane ,  during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the prospore membrane does not occur ,  and the protein is instead present in the plasma membrane ,  during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of endocytosis is decreased during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is not normally found in the prospore membrane is observed there .
a cell phenotype in which a protein is observed in a particular location where it is not normally found during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during metaphase of mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to calcium ions is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a calcineurin - dependent response element  ( cdre )  - containing promoter is decreased following a calcium ion stimulus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during a cellular response to calcium ions .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of calcium ions than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more dna replication rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more translation rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more regulation of mitotic cell cycle rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more regulation of sexual differentiation rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to camptothecin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal during a cellular response to camptothecin .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is decreased during a cellular response to salt stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a phosphatase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is decreased during anaphase of mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleolus is observed there during telophase of mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is abolished ,  and the protein is instead present in the nucleolus ,  during a cellular response to latrunculin b .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that enters the cell cycle but then undergoes cell cycle arrest with unreplicated dna ,  and eventually dies .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic cell cycle dna replication checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of nuclear dna replication is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to calcium ions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to calcium ions is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the mitochondrion is observed there .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a calcineurin - dependent response element  ( cdre )  - containing promoter is decreased during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a calcineurin - dependent response element  ( cdre )  - containing promoter is decreased during a cellular response to micafungin .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow at high temperatures .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuole fusion ,  the merging of two vacuole membranes to form a single vacuole ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuole fusion is abnormal during a cellular response to a hypotonic environment .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the prospore membrane is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the deacetylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the deacetylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of one or more lysine residues in specific proteins ,  or at specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more amino acid biosynthesis rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more transport rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal at one or more specific sites .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mature 5' end of an rna molecule is abnormal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that undergoes a single round of cell division to produce daughter cells that are smaller than normal ,  which then die .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  branched ,  septated ,  and has a larger volume and is longer ,  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  branched ,  has more than one septum ,  and has a larger volume and is longer ,  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is smaller than normal and contains more than one septum ,  when the cell is in a culture in stationary phase .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is smaller than normal and contains two nuclei ,  when the cell is in a culture in stationary phase .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of dna - directed dna polymerase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the rate or occurrence of dna polymerase processivity factor activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the rate or occurrence of dna polymerase processivity factor activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the rate and occurrence of dna polymerase processivity factor activity are normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of an atpase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein having high molecular mass due to polyubiquitin conjugation is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which proteasome localization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleolar chromatin organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleolar chromatin organization is abnormal ,  such that nucleolar chromatin is distributed in a ring - shaped structure around the nuclear periphery rather than in a crescent - shaped structure on one side of the nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic sister chromatid separation does not occur at the centromeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic sister chromatid separation does not occur at the rdna repeat regions .
a cellular process phenotype in which assembly of the meiotic spindle is abnormal during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are longer than normal and are curved ,  i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to egta .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of latrunculin a than normal .
obsolete .a cell phenotype in which a cell has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and is viable .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna is not visible in a distinct structure corresponding to the nucleus ,  but is instead diffuse or not visible at all .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is lower than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable and has a diameter larger than normal only near the middle of the cell ,  around the nucleus .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated and branched  ( and septated )  and is curved along the long axis ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division and then dies .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate or other catalytic property of a dna - directed dna polymerase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed processivity of a dna - directed dna polymerase activity is lower than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated and branched  ( and septated )  ,  and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division and then dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated and branched  ( and septated )  and is curved along the long axis ,  and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division and then dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is elongated and is curved along the long axis ,  and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division and then dies .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad54  ( also called rhp54 )  accumulates is lower than normal during a cellular response to doxorubicin .
a cellular process phenotype in which cellular membrane organization is abnormal during mating .
a transcription regulation phenotype in which any process of regulation of transcription is abnormal .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which any process of regulation of transcription is abnormal .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial translation is abnormal .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial translation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial translation does not occur .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is smaller than normal and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in m phase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur ,  and the position or morphology of the mitotic spindle is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of beta - d - glucan measured in the cell wall is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of ascospore release from an ascus begins earlier than normal .
a viability phenotype in which a spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive ,  and has a smaller volume than normal and an abnormal shape .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint signaling is abnormal  ( does not occur ,  or occurs abnormally )  .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint signaling does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more microtubules than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more ,  and shorter ,  cytoplasmic microtubules than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing is incrsasd .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromere inner repeat regions is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at subtelomeric regions is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of heterochromatin organization is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of heterochromatin maintenance is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of proteasome - mediated ,  ubiquitin - dependent protein degradation is decreased .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitochondrion is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the s - phase dna damage checkpoint  ( also known as the intra - s phase dna damage checkpoint )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to ionizing radiation exposure during mitotic s phase is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to ionizing radiation exposure during mitotic g2 phase is normal  ( i .e .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to ionizing radiation during mitotic s phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle and during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize choline ,  and therefore requires choline in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylcholine measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell growth phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is increased relative to normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  has an abnormal morphology ,  and in which actin cortical patch localization is abnormal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to be49385a  ( a gpi synthesis inhibitor ,  also called yw3548 )  .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of be49385a  ( a gpi synthesis inhibitor ,  also called yw3548 )  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two nuclei and no septum .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha - galactosidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alpha - galactosidase activity is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription of pheromone response genes is increased .
a phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to caffeine during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype which the spindle is broken into fragments during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the presence ,  distribution ,  or morphology of the mitotic or meiotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the presence ,  distribution ,  or morphology of the meiotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of meiotic sister chromatid separation is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which exocytosis occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of non - coding rna transcribed from telomeric regions measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any rna transcribed from sub - telomeric regions measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in subtelomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in subtelomeric regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in subtelomeric regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of histone h3 measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from transposable element transcripts measured in a cell normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains a larger number plasmid catenanes than normal .
a transcription regulation phenotype in which pheromone - responsive positive regulation of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation occurs in g1 phase ,  but its occurrence is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic chromosome condensation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division is arrested under conditions where arrest does not normally occur ,  and in which arrested cells contain four spindle pole bodies .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of linear elements is abnormal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a combination of caffeine and hydroxyurea .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing urea as the nitrogen source .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitosis takes place abnormally after the cell has undergone a normal mitotic nuclear division and passed through the subsequent mitotic interphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which localization of the gamma - tubulin complex to the spindle pole body is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which localization of the gamma - tubulin complex to the spindle pole body takes place abnormally after the cell has undergone a normal mitotic nuclear division and passed through the subsequent mitotic interphase .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitotic spindle forms with microtubules emanating from only one pole after the cell has undergone a normal mitotic nuclear division and passed through the subsequent mitotic interphase .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell becomes cut after it has undergone a normal mitotic nuclear division and passed through the subsequent mitotic interphase .
a phenotype that shows detectable differences from normal at the level of an individual cell ,  when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the cell cycle ,  and after it has undergone a normal mitotic nuclear division and passed through the subsequent mitotic interphase .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is branched ,  septated and elongated .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which gamma - tubulin complex assembly is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of the initiation of dna - dependent dna replication is abnormal ,  with replication reinitiating during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle and resulting in one or more rounds of rereplication of the entire genome .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna replication is initiated at one or more origins during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is increased during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of dna replication is increased .
a conjugation phenotype in which regulation of transcription in response to mating pheromone is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the s - phase dna damage checkpoint  ( also known as the intra - s phase dna damage checkpoint )  is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the linear element is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide and is elongated .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at subtelomeric regions is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of horsetail movement is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during the meiotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the spindle pole body is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the spindle pole body is abnormal during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain more spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  than normal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division is longer than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are longer than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form astral microtubules that are longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the spindle pole body is not attached to any interphase cytoplasmic microtubules ;  as a result ,  the microtubules are not connected to the nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule polymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubule polymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which minus - end specific microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain detectable astral microtubules .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain detectable cytoplasmic microtubules nucleated from the equatorial microtubule organizing center  ( emtoc )  .
a cellular process phenotype in which spindle disassembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which disassembly of the mitotic spindle is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which mitotic spindle disassembly does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which astral microtubule anchoring at the mitotic spindle pole body does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which equatorial microtubule organizing center  ( emtoc )  assembly does not occur .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which post - anaphase microtubule array organization is abnormal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  is curved along the long axis ,  and contains one nucleus .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division during which chromosomes are broken during mitotic chromosome segregation ,  and then dies .
a cellular process phenotype in which premeiotic dna replication begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic dna replication is normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during anaphase of the first meiotic nuclear division is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during the second meiotic nuclear division is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate and other catalytic properties of a dna - directed dna polymerase activity are normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which any physical object quality ,  such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of a cell or a cellular component is abnormal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which any physical object quality ,  such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of a cell or a cellular component is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of caax - protein geranylgeranyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of caax - protein geranylgeranyltransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein farnesyltransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of rab geranylgeranyltransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of bis ( 5' - nucleosyl )  - tetraphosphatase  ( asymmetrical )  activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of bis ( 5' - nucleosyl )  - tetraphosphatase  ( asymmetrical )  activity is increased .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the duration of anaphase of mitosis normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to copper ions is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which assembly of the mitotic spindle begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body during metaphase does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a secondary septum that is thinner than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the actomyosin contractile ring is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a secondary septum that is thinner than normal and does not extend over the entire cell division site .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome is increased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and has one nucleus and more than one septum .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and has two nuclei and more than one septum .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to ultraviolet light .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to methyl methanesulfonate .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein phosphorylation on tyrosine residues is longer than normal during a cellular response to salt stress .
a physical cellular phenotype in which linear elements are absent from the cell .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is decreased along the length of the chromosome arms during meiosis .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome segregation begins earlier than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ferrozine .
a cellular process phenotype in which macroautophagy is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the vacuole is abolished when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  and contains a nucleus that is broken into small fragments .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  contains more than one septum ,  and contains a nucleus that is broken into small fragments .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to dimethyl sulfoxide .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of purine - specific mismatch base pair dna n - glycosylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which purine - specific mismatch base pair dna n - glycosylase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature ,  polyadenylated 25s rrna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of polyadenylated 25s rrna measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of polyadenylated 5 .8s rrna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of the mature polyadenylated 5 .8s rrna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of polyadenylated 5s rrna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleolus is partitioned to daughter cells unequally during cell division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  and has two nuclei but no septum .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to radicicol .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to streptothricin .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to lovastatin .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer free large ribosomal subunits in the cytosol than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna transcribed from cenh measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at the silent mating - type cassettes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is shaped in the form of a sphere ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype in which dna is broken into small fragments when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more diglycerides measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to one or more fatty acids  ( usually supplied as the corresponding anions )  .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 1 , 2 - dioctanoyl - sn - glycerol  ( dic8 dag )  .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of heme binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is bent along the long axis .
a phenotype in which a cell does not alter the timing or rate of cell division when shifted from one nitrogen source to another .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain detectable cytoplasmic microtubules .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  is longer and has a larger volume than normal ,  and is curved along the long axis .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more cytoplasmic microtubules than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic sister chromatid separation begins later than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer monomeric ribosomes  ( 80s monosomes )  in the cytosol than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more half - mer polysomes in the cytosol than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ratio of large to small ribosomal subunits present in the cytosol is lower than normal . .
a cell phenotype in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed when the cell undergoes transition from g0 phase to g1 in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more translation rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more nucleotide metabolism rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more amino acid biosynthesis rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more amino acid import rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains fewer ,  but larger ,  vacuoles than normal when the cell is subject to salt stress .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at subtelomeres is decreased during the part of meiotic prophase i in which horsetail nuclear movement takes place .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested when cells have condensed chromosomes and a single ,  normally located septum ,  under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to heat shock .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which minus - end specific microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the morphology of nuclear microtubules is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic spindle is assembled in an incorrect orientation .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form nuclear microtubules during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle that are longer than normal ,  and are partially or completely surrounded by an extension of the nuclear envelope .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nuclear envelope has one or more extensions that protrude into the cytoplasm during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle orientation correction is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubules are formed from existing nuclear microtubules .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubules are formed by the extension of existing nuclear microtubules through a puncture in the nuclear envelope .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubules are formed by the extension of existing nuclear microtubules arising from fragmentation of the mitotic spindle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the lateral cell cortex is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plus - end of a cytoplasmic microtubule is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer astral microtubules than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell contains fewer cytoplasmic microtubules nucleated from the equatorial microtubule organizing center than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of degradation of misfolded or incompletely synthesized protein is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the position ,  composition or morphology of the actomyosin contractile ring is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of filamentous actin  ( f - actin )  in the actomyosin contractile ring is lower than normal during early mitosis  ( before anaphase )  .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin contractile ring organization is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of the actin cytoskeleton is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the position ,  composition or morphology of the of the actomyosin contractile ring is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of filamentous actin  ( f - actin )  in the actomyosin contractile ring is normal  ( i .e .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at the outer repeat region of the centromere is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin maintenance is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin assembly involved in chromatin silencing at the centromere outer repeat region does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more actin cortical patches at one or both cell tips than normal during early mitosis  ( before anaphase )  .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a lower extent than normal in regions of pericentric heterochromatin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a larger portion of the subtelomeric region of the chromosome than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated and has one or more septa .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of g418 than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of phleomycin than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle does not occur during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the minus ends of microtubules is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which regulation of the initiation of dna - dependent dna replication is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which negative regulation of the initiation of dna - dependent dna replication is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which negative regulation of the initiation of premeiotic dna replication is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which negative regulation of the initiation of premeiotic dna replication is abnormal ,  resulting in one or more rounds of rereplication of the entire genome .
a sporulation phenotype in which azygotic asci that contain more than four ,  and up to eight ,  spores form following conjugation ,  diploid growth ,  and subsequent azygotic sporulation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions of pericentric heterochromatin .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome does not occur during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cell growth phenotype in which cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of cytoplasmic microtubules from one or both of the normal nucleation sites does not occur during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - alanine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - arginine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - asparagine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glycine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - histidine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - lysine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - proline measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - serine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - threonine measured in the vacuole is higher than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of farnesyltranstransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of farnesyltranstransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of farnesyltranstransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint begins later than normal under conditions that normally trigger the checkpoint signaling and response .
a cell phenotype in which spores germinate to a greater extent than wild type following exposure to ionizing radiation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a histone methyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a histone methyltransferase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to menadione is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the golgi apparatus is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a dna / dna annealing activity is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of serine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomeres have fused ,  forming circular chromosomes ,  during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distance between one or more telomeres and the nuclear envelope is abnormal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distance between one or more telomeres and the nuclear envelope is greater than normal during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distance between one or more telomeres and the nuclear envelope is smaller than normal during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distance between one or more telomeres and the nuclear envelope is smaller than normal during mitosis .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine or threonine residues n - terminal to proline residues  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the meiotic nuclear divisions are normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the meiotic nuclear divisions are normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division does not occur during a cycle of azygotic meiosis and sporulation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division does not occur during a cycle of zygotic meiosis and sporulation .
a cellular process phenotype in which premeiotic dna replication does not occur during a cycle of azygotic meiosis and sporulation .
a cellular process phenotype in which premeiotic dna replication begins later than normal during a cycle of azygotic meiosis and sporulation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which actin cytoskeleton organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which actin fusion focus assembly does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell wall organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the cell wall is broken down to a lesser extent than in wild type at the site of cell - cell fusion during mating .
a cell morphology phenotype in which the cell is narrower than normal at the point where cell fusion occurred during mating .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein present as aggregates of misfolded protein is greater than normal during a cellular response to heat .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of heterochromatin maintenance is shorter than normal in the context of chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat regions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased ,  and the protein is instead visible in one or a few foci or dots in the cytoplasm .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase ii is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase ii at sites in ribosomal dna  ( rdna )  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase ii at trna genes  ( tdna )  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase ii at highly transcribed protein - coding genes is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from antisense transcription of ribosomal dna measured in a cell is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of antisense rna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from antisense transcription of ribosomal dna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of small rna  ( such as sirna )  derived from antisense transcription of transfer rna genes measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of dna replication origins in ribosomal dna at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of dna replication pause sites in ribosomal dna at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates at or near highly transcribed protein - coding genes is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna - dna hybrid molecules is greater than normal in ribosomal dna regions .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the number of ribosomal dna  ( rdna )  repeats present in the rdna arrays on chromosome iii is abnormal  ( significantly greater or less than the range in wild type cells )  .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of ribosomal dna  ( rdna )  repeats present in the rdna arrays on chromosome iii is normal  ( within the range in wild type cells )  .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of ribosomal dna  ( rdna )  repeats present in the rdna arrays on chromosome iii is significantly lower than the range in wild type cells ,  but remains at the same level over successive generations .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the number of ribosomal dna  ( rdna )  repeats present in the rdna arrays on chromosome iii is significantly lower than the range in wild type cells ,  and continues to decrease over successive meiotic generations  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell dies as it goes through mitosis ,  usually as a result of abnormal chromosome and spindle dynamics .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a phosphatase activity is decreased during a cellular response to adenine starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle elongation ends earlier than normal during anaphase b . elongation stops before the spindle reaches its normal maximum length .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone is decreased during anaphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone during anaphase a does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone is decreased during anaphase b .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a phosphatase activity is increased during a cellular response to adenine starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of oxidation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is decreased during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing little or no glucose .
a cell phenotype observed in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is abolished when the cell is subject to glucose starvation ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which high - affinity import of glucose into the cell is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleus is observed there when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in which a protein that is not normally found in the cytoplasm is observed there .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two nuclei and more than one septum ,  and the septa are grouped together between two compartments ,  one contains both nuclei .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which lagging strand elongation during nuclear dna replication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which lagging strand elongation during nuclear dna replication is abnormal at telomeric regions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of dna replication pause sites in telomeric regions at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype that affects dna - dependent transcription .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a protein metabolic process is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a protein metabolic process is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a protein metabolic process is abnormal .
a cell process phenotype that affects an rna transport process .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of an rna in a cell .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is increased .
a regulation phenotype in which negative regulation of the initiation of premeiotic dna replication is abnormal ,  resulting in rereplication of part of the genome .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glucan endo - 1 , 6 - beta - glucosidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glucan endo - 1 , 6 - beta - glucosidase activity is increased .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more polysaccharides measured in the cell wall is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of beta - d - glucan measured in the cell wall is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of galactomannan measured in the cell wall is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form microtubules that are curved ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form microtubules that are longer than normal and are curved ,  i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  is curved along the long axis ,  and contains interphase cytoplasmic microtubules that are longer than normal and curved .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form astral microtubules that are longer than normal during anaphase a . anaphase a is the stage of mitosis in which the kinetochore microtubules shorten as chromosomes move toward the spindle poles .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the post - anaphase array is larger ,  and contains more microtubules ,  than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ionizing radiation during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein crb2 accumulates is lower than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of mitotic cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint is shorter than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a 2 - oxoglutarate - dependent dioxygenase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a 2 - oxoglutarate - dependent dioxygenase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which a 2 - oxoglutarate - dependent dioxygenase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glucose consumed by cells in a given time is lower than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of allyl alcohol than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  is decreased when the cell is subject to heat shock ,  at specific genes that are transcriptionally up - regulated during the heat shock .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  is decreased at specific genes that are transcriptionally up - regulated during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more mitotically up - regulated rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more lipid metabolism rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle disassembly lasts for a longer time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytokinesis takes place before the mitotic spindle has disassembled .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the mitotic spindle midzone for a longer time than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear envelope is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear envelope is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear envelope is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome does not occur during the meiotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distance between one or more telomeres and the nuclear envelope is greater than normal during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation lasts for a longer time than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan synthase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan synthase activity is decreased during sporulation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actomyosin contractile ring contraction is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more generation of precursor metabolites and energy rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during nitrogen starvation measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyruvate decarboxylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyruvate decarboxylase activity is decreased when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of thiamine measured in a cell is lower than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the amount of oxygen consumed by cells in a given time is higher than in wild type when the population in which the cells are found is in stationary phase .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated ,  has more than one septum and more than one nucleus ,  and is curved along the long axis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more cell separation after cytokinesis rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the central core of the centromeric regions is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more iron homeostasis rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more histone rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  is decreased at the promoter regions of genes encoding histones .
a molecular function phenotype in which l - aminoadipate - semialdehyde dehydrogenase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally localized to discrete regions in the nucleus ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  is abnormally localized such that dots cannot be observed ,  and the protein is instead distributed throughout the nucleus .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is localized normally  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of glutathione into the vacuole does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phytochelatin measured in the vacuole is too low to detect .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to nalidixic acid .
a phenotype in which the sequence of the telomeric repeating unit differs from normal .
a phenotype in which the sequence of the telomeric repeating unit is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of a catalytic activity is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of a protein kinase activity occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of a protein kinase activity does not occur .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of a molecular function is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of a catalytic activity is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of a protein kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere tethering at the nuclear periphery is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the outer surface of the ascospore wall is rougher and less regular than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the outer surface of the ascospore wall is thicker than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which prospore formation assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna is broken into small fragments .
a cell phenotype in which  the nucleus is broken into multiple small fragments ,  smaller than a normal nucleus ,  during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased during sporulation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during sporulation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which one or more proteins is localized to the prospore membrane for a longer time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which prospore membrane formation is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during exit from mitosis is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding at an rna polymerase ii proximal promoter that contains a pombe cell cycle box  ( pcb )  by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during the first meiotic nuclear division is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during the meiotic cell cycle .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which the glycan moiety of a glycoprotein contains a lower amount of mannose residues than normal .
a phenotype in which the glycan moiety of a glycoprotein contains galactose and mannose residues in a normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  morphology ,  or other physical characteristic of the mitochondrion is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitochondrial membrane potential ,  i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of nigericin than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to one or more potassium ionophores .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of cardiolipin measured in membranes that form the mitochondrial envelope is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a larger portion of the centromeric region of the chromosome than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to rapamycin .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated ,  and the nucleus is longer than normal and undergoes oscillatory movement .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein brc1 accumulates is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the prospore membrane begins to form and enclose the nucleus ,  but the leading edge does not close completely ,  leaving a gap in the membrane .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the presence ,  distribution ,  or morphology of the prospore membrane is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain more prospore membrane than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of phosphatidylinositol - 3 - phosphate binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial rna 3' - end processing is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the mitochondrion differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in the mitochondrion differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the mitochondrion is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in the mitochondria is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at replication origins is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at replication origins is normal  ( i .e .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of sterols in the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer actin cortical patches than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is inviable ,  is shaped in the form of a pear ,  and has a larger volume than normal ,  in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of horsetail movement is longer than normal .
a cell growth phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is increased relative to normal under conditions of phosphate starvation .
a cell growth phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is decreased relative to normal under conditions of phosphate starvation .
a cell growth phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable and elongated when the cell is subject to phosphate starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more messenger rnas that are normally expressed during a cellular response to stress measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more actin cortical patches than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which telomere localization ,  a process in which a telomere is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which telomere localization ,  a process in which a telomere is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which depolymerization  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which depolymerization  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a new cell tip is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a new growing cell tip is increased .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains one septum ,  is longer than normal ,  and has a greater length:diameter ratio than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the equatorial microtubule organizing center is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more histones measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rnas transcribed from the centromeric region are present at greater levels than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to vorinostat .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at the central core of the centromeric regions is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form telomeres that become entwined and resistant to separation .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription does not occur during the meiotic cell cycle .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sunitinib .
a gene expression phenotype in which rna levels that normally vary over the course of the mitotic cell cycle do not vary ,  or change in a pattern different from normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which centromere clustering is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions ,  such that one or more centromeres is associated with the spindle pole body  ( spb )  during prophase .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells in the g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle undergo meiotic nuclear divisions ,  and premeiotic dna replication does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during the meiotic cell cycle is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during interphase of the meiotic cell cycle is lower than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which spore germination occurs at a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division begins at the normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to a specific location on a chromosome is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to a region in a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of horsetail movement is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of horsetail movement is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is not normally found in the nucleus is observed there during interphase of a mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein having high molecular mass due to polyubiquitin conjugation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated ,  and the nucleus undergoes oscillatory movement around its normal location .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the composition of a protein complex differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured in the anaphase - promoting complex is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more hexose transport rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of serine residues of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the of serine residues three positions c - terminal to arginine residues  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues three positions c - terminal to arginine residues  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of serine residues three positions c - terminal to arginine residues  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of serine residues three positions c - terminal to arginine residues  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h4 acetylation occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 5 of histone h4 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 8 of histone h4 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 12 of histone h4 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rrna modification ,  the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an rrna molecule ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional addition of acetyl groups to residues in an 18s rrna molecule is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ribosome biogenesis is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of double - stranded dna binding by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell cycle phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of septum assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of actomyosin contractile ring contraction is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein is localized to the actomyosin contractile ring for a shorter time than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable ,  contains one nucleus and one or more septa and is elongated .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid separation is abnormal along the chromosome arms .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation does not occur in centromeric regions  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is increased along the chromosome arms .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  has a larger diameter and volume than normal ,  contains two nuclei and more than one septum ,  and has an abnormal shape featuring a constriction at the center of the cell ,  corresponding to the cell division site .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of the gamma - tubulin complex to the spindle pole body is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which more ribonucleotides than normal are incorporated into the leading strand during mitotic dna replication .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which more ribonucleotides than normal are incorporated into the lagging strand during mitotic dna replication .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mutations occur at a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 5 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 2 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii does not occur when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 2 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 2 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 2 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a gene expression phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of translation in response to ultraviolet light is abnormal .
a gene expression phenotype that affects the regulation of translation in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is decreased ,  and sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during mitosis prior to completion of chromosome segregation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is decreased ,  and sister chromatids do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during mitosis prior to completion of chromosome segregation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at rna polymerase ii promoters is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at rna polymerase ii promoters is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at rna polymerase ii promoters is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to regions of chromatin containing genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of cleavage of double - stranded rna to form small interfering rna molecules  ( sirnas )  ,  as part of chromatin silencing by small rna ,  is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rits complex assembly is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to latrunculin a is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has two and more than one septum ,  and the septa are grouped together between the two compartments ,  one or more of which may contain multiple nuclei .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic dna double - strand break clipping does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic dna double - strand break clipping is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic dna double - strand break resection is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic dna double - strand break resection is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 5 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 in telomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 at the mating type locus occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in telomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at the mating type locus occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 1 , 1 - bis ( 2 - aminoethyl )  - 2 - hydroxy - 3 - oxotriazane  ( deta nonoate )  .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites of double - strand breaks in dna is greater than normal during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation fails to separate chromosomes into two equal masses after the cell has undergone a normal mitotic nuclear division and passed through the subsequent mitotic interphase .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation despite abolished mitotic sister chromatid separation ,  producing inviable daughter cells ,  and in which the septum forms in a position that partitions the nucleus into one compartment .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromeric regions is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation occurs to a lower extent than normal along the chromosome arms .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured in the anaphase - promoting complex is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of anaphase - promoting complex assembly is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell becomes elongated ,  i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a combination of canavanine and rapamycin .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the central core of the centromeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the centromere inner repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at long terminal repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at small nucleolar rna  ( snorna )  genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at transfer rna  ( trna )  genes is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that contains two nuclei and one or more septa ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division ,  and then dies .
a molecular function phenotype in which rna polymerase ii carboxy - terminal domain kinase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more cytokinesis rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at a pombe cell cycle box  ( pcb )  by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that has a greater length ,  diameter ,  and volume than normal ,  is shaped in the form of a pear ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division and then dies .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein phosphorylation is shorter than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by the s - phase dna damage checkpoint is lower than in wild type during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at replication origins is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the mitotic spindle pole body for a longer time than normal during anaphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is abnormally arrested during g1 phase .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of poly ( a )  polymerase activity  ( ec name polynucleotide adenylyltransferase activity )  is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of poly ( a )  polymerase activity  ( ec name polynucleotide adenylyltransferase activity )  is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of poly ( u )  polymerase activity  ( ec name rna uridylyltransferase activity )  is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and a polyuridylated rna  ( poly ( u ) rna )  is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a protein found associated with chromatin at the mating type region is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is elongated ,  and is curved along the long axis .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of lys63 - specific deubiquitinase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which lys63 - specific deubiquitinase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of lys63 - specific deubiquitinase activity is decreased .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of mitotic dna replication initiation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of dna strand elongation involved in mitotic nuclear dna replication is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at replication origins begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of sodium ions out of a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquitin - specific protease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquitin - specific protease activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ubiquitin - specific protease activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endosome ( s )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated and has an abnormal shape featuring a constriction at the center of the cell ,  corresponding to the cell division site .
a cell phenotype in which a protein is localized to discrete regions in the nucleus ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  to a greater extent observed than in normal  ( wild type )  cells .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which a mutation causes a gene product to bind to one or more proteins with different specificity from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is greater than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna transcribed from early meiotic genes measured in a cell is lower than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna transcribed from middle meiotic genes measured in a cell is lower than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna transcribed from late meiotic genes measured in a cell is lower than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in late meiosis in which the amount of rna transcribed from early meiotic genes measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during nitrogen starvation measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more carbohydrate metabolism rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna transcribed from late meiotic genes measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna transcribed from middle meiotic genes measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during heat shock measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which spores germinate to a lower extent than wild type following exposure to heat .
a cell phenotype in which spores germinate to a lower extent than wild type following exposure to ethanol .
a cell phenotype in which spores germinate to a lower extent than wild type following exposure to an enzymes that degrades cell wall polysaccharides .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the ascospore wall is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to micafungin .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to linear elements is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which generation of double - strand breaks at defined hotspots throughout the genome during meiosis i is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which generation of double - strand breaks at defined hotspots throughout the genome during meiosis i begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the repair of double - strand breaks formed as part of meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the repair of double - strand breaks formed as part of meiotic recombination is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the repair of double - strand breaks formed as part of meiotic recombination does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the repair of double - strand breaks formed as part of meiotic recombination is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of proteasome core complex binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which proteasome core complex binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of proteasome regulatory particle binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which proteasome regulatory particle binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a proteasome to the nuclear periphery is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a proteasome to the nuclear periphery is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear periphery is increased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid and has one or more septa .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of enfumafungin than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of pneumocandin b0 than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of caspofungin than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a greater than normal number of cells in an originally homothallic  ( h90 )  population express m - specific information from the mat1 locus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at the mat2p silent mating - type cassette is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ergosta - 5 , 7 , 22 , 24 ( 28 )  - tetraen - 3beta - ol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a phenotype characterized by altered ascus morphology ,  i .e .
a phenotype characterized by normal ascus morphology ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - beta - d - glucan measured in the cell wall is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the synthesis of dna that occurs as part of dna replication is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell cycle progression is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell cycle progression resumes after a longer time than normal after exposure to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to heat is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which non - sporulating diploid cells become haploid ,  without undergoing meiosis ,  at a higher frequency than normal during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the spatio - temporal pattern of localization of replication forks into nuclear foci is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the spatio - temporal pattern of localization of replication forks into nuclear foci is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at centromere inner repeat regions is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to salt stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at the centromere central core occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of uracil into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of uracil into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of uracil into the cell occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell surface is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of uracil into the cell does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of catalase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of ferric - chelate reductase activity is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the modification of a wobble base uridine residue in a trna to 2 - thiouridine is abolished .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the fungal - type vacuole is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to ultraviolet light  ( uv )  exposure during mitotic g1 phase is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to ultraviolet light  ( uv )  exposure during mitotic g1 phase is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein degradation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased when the cell is exposed to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the polyubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur when the cell is exposed to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 5 the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that contains one or more septa ,  has condensed chromatin ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division ,  and then dies .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of hexavalent chromium ions  ( cr6 +  )  than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more transport rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of cell cycle arrest in response to hydroxyurea exposure begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal after arrest resulting from hydroxyurea exposure .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular response phenotype in which a cellular response to stress is normal  ( i .e .
a stress response phenotype in which the response to nitrogen starvation is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of torin1 than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein degradation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the polyubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a greater extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of a protein kinase activity occurs to a lower extent than normal .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to heat stress is abnormal .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to rapamycin is abnormal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ethionine .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of dna - directed dna polymerase activity occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the rate or occurrence of dna polymerase processivity factor activity is increased .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle when cells are shifted from one nitrogen source to another .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a protein does not localize to ,  and is therefore absent from ,  a place where it is normally found during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome does not occur during metaphase of mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is decreased during anaphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a gene expression phenotype in which regulation of translation in response to stress is normal  ( i .e .
a gene expression phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of translation in response to osmotic stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is decreased during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a proteasome to the nuclear periphery is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of histone h2a measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a phenotype in which a transcript ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein oligomerization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein oligomerization is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of histone h3 to chromatin at one or more protein - coding genes is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of histone h2b to chromatin at one or more protein - coding genes is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of ubiquitinated protein measured the cell is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ubiquitinated protein measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from one or more rna polymerase ii promoters occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a gene expression phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of translation in response to ultraviolet light is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase ,  when cells the population are subject to glucose starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to a protein complex is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to an mcm complex is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which mcm complex binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at stalled replication forks is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at stalled replication forks is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - proline measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - tryptophan measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - tyrosine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - tryptophan measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - tyrosine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a vegetative cell population phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing glutamine as the nitrogen source .
a vegetative cell population phenotype in which cell growth is increased relative to normal in a medium containing glutamine as the nitrogen source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing arabinose as the carbon source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is increased relative to normal in a medium containing arabinose as the carbon source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing melibiose as the carbon source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is increased relative to normal in a medium containing melibiose as the carbon source .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of tellurite  ( teo3 ( 2 -  )  )  ions than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of caesium ions than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to caesium ions .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tellurite  ( teo3 ( 2 -  )  )  ions .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tamoxifen .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of tamoxifen than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a carboxypeptidase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a carboxypeptidase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - proline measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the growth of a population of cells is increased relative to normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle at high temperatures .
a cell population phenotype in which a population reaches stationary phase at ,  and maintains ,  a higher cell density than wild type .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is increased relative to normal at a low temperature .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is increased relative to normal in a medium containing galactose as the carbon source .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is increased relative to normal in a medium containing maltose as the carbon source .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - arginine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of dithiothreitol than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of lead ions than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of sodium dodecyl sulfate  ( sds )  than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to aluminium ions .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to methyl methanesulfonate  ( mms )  is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule plus - end directed mitotic chromosome migration is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule plus - end directed mitotic chromosome migration does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not execute a cell cycle phase transition normally .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not execute a meiotic cell cycle phase transition normally .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell does not execute a mitotic cell cycle phase transition normally .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell has two or more nuclei and more than one septum per cell .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more glucose - repressed mrnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more glucose - repressed mrnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more glucose - repressed mrnas measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  and contains dna broken into small fragments when the cell is exposed to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to inositol starvation .
a cell population phenotype in which a larger than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells the population are subject to inositol starvation .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to bleomycin .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a cysteine - type endopeptidase activity is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a larger region near the centromere than normal ,  such that it extends beyond the irc1l boundary element .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of transcription by glucose  ( glucose repression )  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the maintenance of the mitotic actomyosin contractile ring in the correct location is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane surrounding the cell division site is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to zinc ion is higher than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 8 - oxo - 7 , 8 - dihydroguanine dna n - glycosylase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of oxidized dna binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is decreased during mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint signaling .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more cell cycle - regulated mrnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during the g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is lower than normal .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is elongated during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through interphase of the mitotic cell cycle is longer than normal .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the duration of interphase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of phospholipid binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 8 of histone h4 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 5 of histone h4 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which establishment of mitotic sister chromatid cohesion is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which maintenance of mitotic sister chromatid cohesion is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at promoters that contain mcb sites is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of negative regulation of transcription at the central core of the centromeric regions is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 12 of histone h4 in subtelomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at positions 8 and 16 of histone h4 in subtelomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more mlui cell cycle box factor elements  ( mcbs )  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is spherical ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division before all cells die ,  and some cells lyse .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during metaphase of mitosis is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in mitotic metaphase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which anaphase - promoting complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which error - free translesion synthesis is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the repair of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers by error - free translesion synthesis occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which error - free translesion synthesis is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which error - prone translesion synthesis is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the repair of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers by error - free translesion synthesis does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the repair of cyclobutane pyrimidine dimers by error - free translesion synthesis is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the repair of pyrimidine - pyrimidone 6 - 4 photoproducts by error - free translesion synthesis is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the repair of pyrimidine - pyrimidone 6 - 4 photoproducts by error - free translesion synthesis occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the repair of pyrimidine - pyrimidone 6 - 4 photoproducts by error - prone translesion synthesis occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the repair of pyrimidine - pyrimidone 6 - 4 photoproducts by error - prone translesion synthesis does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the holliday junctions is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through mitotic cell cycle arrest at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition occurs abnormally when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of histone h3 measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at positions 9 and 14 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is increased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which deacetylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h4 is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is decreased during anaphase b .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mitotic spindle midzone ,  the area in the center of the mitotic spindle where the spindle microtubules from opposite poles overlap ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid separation begins during interphase of the cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is abolished ,  and the protein is instead present in the nucleus ,  during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus has a pointed shape during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which spindle pole body  ( spb )  - led chromosome movement is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic spindle pole body  ( spb )  moves rapidly back and forth to a greater extent and over a larger area than normal ,  causing increased chromosome movement .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear chromatin organization is abnormal ,  such that chromatin is distributed in a ring - shaped structure around the nuclear periphery rather than throughout the nucleus .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate or other property of a guanyl - nucleotide exchange factor activity is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the physical attachment of sister chromatids to mitotic spindle microtubules is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at the mating - type locus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which site - specific dna replication termination at the rts1 barrier in the mating type region is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which site - specific dna replication termination at rts1 barrier in the mating type region is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which site - specific dna replication termination at rts1 barrier in the mating type region does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which site - specific dna replication termination at rts1 barrier in the mating type region occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which site - specific dna replication termination at rts1 barrier in the mating type region occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase ii at the rts1 replication fork barrier is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rts1 replication termination site prevents replication fork movement in the opposite of normal direction .
a cell phenotype in which the level of large y - shaped dna replication intermediates is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosome recapture is abnormal during metaphase of mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle kinetochore microtubule depolymerization ,  occurs to a lesser extent than normal during mitotic chromosome recapture .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of kinetochore sliding ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which kinetochore sliding ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during mitosis .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein encoded by genes normally induced during iron ion starvation measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow at low temperatures .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which occurrence of errors ,  usually small deletions ,  upon repair of double - strand breaks in dna by nonhomologous end joining is increased .
a cell phenotype in which linear minichromosomes are lost at a higher frequency than normal during the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which circular minichromosomes are lost at a higher frequency than normal during the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to methyl methanesulfonate  ( mms )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of meiotic recombination between alleles of one sister chromatid  ( intra - sister recombination )  or between alleles on different sister chromatids  ( inter - sister recombination )  is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which proteolysis is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within a protein does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which spindle pole body organization is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the spindle pole bodies are normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle pole body duplication is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the gamma - tubulin complex is localized to only one spindle pole body instead of both .
a cellular process phenotype in which exit from meiosis begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of the first meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the onset of anaphase of the first meiotic nuclear division begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the first meiotic nuclear division  ( part of the meiotic cell cycle )  is arrested in metaphase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin along chromosome arms is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2b complex assembly is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad51 accumulates is lower than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rqh1 accumulates is greater than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally localized to discrete regions in the nucleus ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  is abnormally localized such that more dots are observed than in normal  ( wild type )  cells during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of dna recombination is increased during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a regulation phenotype in which the frequency of dna recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is slower than normal ,  and the population growth rate decreases over successive generations .
a cell population phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is slower than normal for several generations ,  with the population growth rate decreasing over successive generations ,  after which the population resumes growing at a normal or near - normal rate .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to subtelomeric heterochromatin is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of double - strand break repair via homologous recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break repair via homologous recombination does not occur .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to the presence of dna double - strand breaks is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is higher than normal during arrest of the mitotic cell cycle in g1 phase due to nitrogen starvation .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the single - stranded telomeric 3' overhang is longer than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the single - stranded telomeric 3' overhang is not present .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosomes remain linear ,  but lose telomeric repeats .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of dna recombination is increased in telomeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of dna recombination is increased in telomeric regions in haploid cells that have undergone meiosis ,  sporulation and spore germination .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of dna recombination is increased in telomeric regions when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is shorter than normal during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell that has arrested the mitotic cell cycle g1 phase in response to nitrogen starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein degradation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore results in a larger number of kinetochores remaining unattached than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during the first meiotic nuclear division is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during the second meiotic nuclear division is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during anaphase of the first meiotic nuclear division is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during anaphase of the second meiotic nuclear division is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic spindle elongation begins earlier than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a gene product  ( usually a protein )  that normally has atpase activator activity has no activity in a mutant .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the mitochondrial cristae is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more iron assimilation rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in interphase ,  during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated ,  has a nucleus that is broken into multiple small fragments ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in interphase during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation occurs to a lower extent than normal during telophase of mitosis .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is elongated ,  is curved along the long axis ,  and contains cytoplasmic microtubules that are longer than normal and curved .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is elongated ,  is curved along the long axis to form a  \ "c \ " shape ,  and contains cytoplasmic microtubules that are longer than normal and curved .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is elongated ,  is curved along the long axis to form a  \ "j \ " shape ,  and contains cytoplasmic microtubules that curve to follow the long axis of the cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which uv - damage excision repair begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which uv - damage excision repair occurs to a lower extent than normal during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches cluster together more than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic recombination at one or more recombination hotspots is decreased to the background level .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic recombination is decreased both at recombination hotspots and elsewhere in the genome .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of meiotic recombination at one or more recombination hotspots is decreased to the background level .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of meiotic recombination is decreased both at recombination hotspots and elsewhere in the genome .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that has an elongated germ tube and a nucleus that is broken into multiple small fragments ,  and does not go on to give rise to a viable cell population .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break repair does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna / dna annealing activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna / dna annealing activity is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is swollen ,  is elongated ,  and in which the nucleus is larger than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to one or more microtubules does not occur during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic sister chromatid separation is abnormal at the telomeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of hydrolysis of peptide bonds within a protein is decreased .
a cell population phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is initially slower than normal ,  and remains slow for several generations ,  after which the population resumes growing at a normal or near - normal rate .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the length of the single - stranded telomeric 3' overhang is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a specific molecular function is absent .
a phenotype in which a specific biological process is abnormal .
a phenotype in which a specific biological process does not occur .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process does not occur .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one of two different alleles of a gene is lost less frequently than normal after a double - strand break forms nearby .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one of two different alleles of a gene is lost more frequently than normal after a double - strand break forms nearby .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosomal translocation that would result in the loss of one of two different alleles of a gene does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere assembly ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere assembly occurs at one or more chromosome ends generated by a double - strand break .
a cell population phenotype in which a lower than normal number of cells contain 1c dna content .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glycerol measured in a cell during a cellular response to osmotic stress is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glycerol measured in a cell during a cellular response to non - ionic osmotic stress is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining  ( nhej )  does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at promoters that contain mcb sites is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule - based movement is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule - based movement occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubule polymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein is localized to one or both cell tip ( s )  ,  but then remains there for a longer or shorter time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the establishment or maintenance of cell polarity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the non - growing cell tip is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is decreased during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is increased during mitosis .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that does not divide ,  and eventually lyses .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate synthase activity using nadh as a cofactor is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which glutamate synthase activity using nadh as a cofactor is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which glutamate dehydrogenase activity using napd +  as a cofactor is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate synthase activity using nadh as a cofactor is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate dehydrogenase activity using napd +  as a cofactor is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is normal length but has a larger volume than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of filamentous actin measured the cell is lower than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to arsenite ions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to arsenite ions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to arsenite ions .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an diphosphoinositol - pentakisphosphate kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an inositol phosphate phosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an inositol phosphate phosphatase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an inositol phosphate phosphatase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which an inositol phosphate phosphatase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of iron - sulfur cluster binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of iron - sulfur cluster binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to arsenite ions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the vacuolar membrane is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the vacuole is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the maintenance of protein localization in vacuole occurs to a lower extent than normal ,  and some of the protein is secreted ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the maintenance of protein localization in vacuole does not occur ,  and some of the protein is secreted ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the transport of proteins or other substances from the endosome to the golgi is normal  ( i .e .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the transport of proteins along microtubules is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more cre elements occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more cre elements occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more cre elements does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more cre elements occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to miconazole .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more cre elements occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to miconazole .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more cre elements does not occur during a cellular response to miconazole .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription is abnormal in extent ,  timing ,  start or termination site ,  etc .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is normally localized to both cell tips is instead found at only one tip .
a phenotype in which galactose - specific flocculation does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more cell surface glycoprotein mrnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more mitochondrial transport mrnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the transport of a substance from the plasma membrane to the vacuole is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic sister chromatid segregation is abnormal .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the onset of anaphase of the second meiotic nuclear division begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype that affects any meiotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the meiosis i spindle assembly checkpoint is activated more frequently than normal ,  typically under conditions that do not cause checkpoint activation in wild - type cells .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is increased during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the vacuole is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the vacuole instead .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal in regions of euchromatin .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in regions containing protein coding genes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nucleosome - dependent atpase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which nucleosome - dependent atpase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome organization is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rnas transcribed in the forward direction from the centromere outer repeat region are present at greater levels than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rnas transcribed in the reverse direction from the centromere outer repeat region are present at greater levels than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal in the central core of the centromeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal in centromere inner repeat regions .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the transport of organelles or other particles along microtubules is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the formation of chromatin knobs in subtelomeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the formation of chromatin knobs in subtelomeric regions is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the irc1l boundary element is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the irc1l boundary element is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the irc1l boundary element is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 at the irc1l boundary element occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 in telomeric regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 in telomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of an rna to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomerase holoenzyme complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere - telomerase complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of telomerase rna reverse transcriptase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of telomerase rna reverse transcriptase activity is decreased .
a regulation phenotype in which the frequency of dna recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which telomerase template activity is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of actomyosin contractile ring contraction is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane surrounding the cell division site is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear chromatin organization is abnormal ,  such that regions containing transposons  ( tf2 elements )  are physically clustered to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein targeting to the vacuole occurs to a lower extent than normal ,  and some of the protein is secreted .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to brefeldin a .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells in a culture are deprived of nitrogen .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydroxyurea is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cleavage furrow is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cleavage furrow rim is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of single - stranded telomeric dna binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin loading is decreased during the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin loading does not occur during the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin unloading is decreased during the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of microtubule bundles is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which stable microtubule bundles are thicker than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which stable microtubule bundles are thinner than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which stable microtubule bundles are longer than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which stable microtubule bundles are shorter than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which stable microtubule bundles are longer and thicker than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which stable microtubule bundles are shorter and thinner than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of microtubule bundles is abnormal when the cell undergoes transition from g0 phase to g1 .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a new growth zone forms along the lateral portion of the cell  ( often in the middle )  before septation ,  such that a single cell grows in the form of the letter t . cell length is normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a new growth zone forms along the lateral portion of the cell  ( often in the middle )  before septation ,  such that a single cell grows in the form of the letter t ,  when the cell undergoes transition from g0 phase to g1 .
a cellular process phenotype in which the establishment or maintenance of cell polarity is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the establishment or maintenance of cell polarity is abnormal when the cell undergoes transition from g0 phase to g1 .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell periphery is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell periphery does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell periphery is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which nuclear transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which nuclear transport is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
auxotrophy in which a cell requires magnesium ions in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is decreased during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a lower extent than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of intergenic meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is decreased in centromeric regions during meiosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more lipid metabolism rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell contains glycerophospholipids that have shorter fatty acid chain residues than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell contains monoacylglycerol phosphates  ( also called lysophospholipids )  that have normal length fatty acid chain residues .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell contains higher levels of saturated fatty acids ,  and lower levels of unsaturated fatty acids ,  than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more diglycerides measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more triglycerides measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylethanolamine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phosphatidic acid measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phosphoinositide measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylserine measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of cardiolipin measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of lysophosphatidylcholine measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of lysophosphatidylethanolamine level measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of inositol phosphorylceramide measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at a replication fork pausing site within the eukaryotic rdna repeat spacer is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a ceramide measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the spindle is increased during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is increased during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of the first meiotic nuclear division is longer than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of one or more chromosomes is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of one or more chromosomes is abnormal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any rna transcribed from sub - telomeric regions measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is greater than in wild type during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which sites at which the protein rad52 accumulates remain present for longer than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which sites at which the protein ssb1 accumulates remain present for longer than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ubiquitination of lysine at position 119 of histone h2b is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ubiquitination of lysine at position 119 of histone h2b occurs to a lower extent than normal in regions surrounding double - strand dna breaks .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ubiquitination of lysine at position 119 of histone h2b occurs over a smaller portion of the chromosome than normal in regions surrounding double - strand dna breaks .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein localizes to a smaller portion of the chromosome than normal in the region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 occurs to a greater extent than normal in the region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear envelope is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear envelope is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal during a cellular response to bleomycin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to bleomycin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to bleomycin .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of repair of double - strand breaks formed as part of meiotic recombination is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of sumoylated protein measured the cell is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell contains sumoylated proteins that have longer poly - sumo chains than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell contains more adducts formed between a topoisomerase and dna than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell contains a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ultraviolet light late in g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to ultraviolet light during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to ultraviolet light during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is greater than in wild type during a cellular response to ultraviolet  ( uv )  light ,  when cells are exposed to uv during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of cell separation after cytokinesis is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein having high molecular mass due to polysumo conjugation is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein having high molecular mass due to polysumo conjugation is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of protein degradation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which kinetochores become separated during the first meiotic nuclear division ,  but homologous chromosomes undergo normal reductional division .
a cellular process phenotype in which sister kinetochores become separated during the first meiotic nuclear division ,  and sister chromatids subsequently separate to result in equational segregation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the spindle begins later than normal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein from kinetochores to the spindle begins later than normal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which the metaphase / anaphase transition of the first meiotic nuclear division begins at the normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during the first meiotic nuclear division results in the connection of a single kinetochore to both spindle poles .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to iron ion starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which centromere clustering is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions ,  such that centromeres dissociate from the spindle pole body ,  but do not cluster with each other .
a cellular process phenotype in which kinetochores become separated during the first meiotic nuclear division ,  and in which homologous chromosomes do not move towards the spindle poles at the same time during anaphase ,  but are eventually separated normally .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome biorientation is abnormal during meiosis ,  with chromosomes that are not correctly oriented with the kinetochores facing outwards .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is decreased ,  and an increased amount of the protein is instead detected in the nucleus and at the spindle pole body .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of cutin - 1  ( n - carbamoyl - 2 -  ( triphenyl - lambda - 5 - phosphanylidene ) acetamide )  than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the kinetochore is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the kinetochore is divided into two or more parts .
a physical cellular phenotype in which sister kinetochores separate during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which premeiotic dna replication begins at the normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the nucleus is abnormal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the spindle is abnormal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein encoded by genes normally induced during iron ion starvation measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is subject to glutathione starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more iron assimilation rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more iron assimilation rnas measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which iron ion binding by a gene product does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of crossover associated with a gene conversion event during meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of crossover associated with a gene conversion event during meiotic recombination is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of crossover associated with a gene conversion event during meiotic recombination is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of crossover associated with a gene conversion event during meiotic recombination is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more tr boxes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which re - entry into the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal after arrest resulting from heat shock .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is viable ,  and becomes elongated ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the actin cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the actin cytoskeleton is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus begins earlier than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cyclic amp  ( camp )  .
a cut phenotype with abnormal chromosome segregation that is observed when a cell is exposed to hydroxyurea .
a cut phenotype with abnormal chromosome segregation that is observed when a cell is exposed to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell population phenotype in which the septation index is higher than normal in a population that is exposed to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ubiquitinated protein measured the cell is lower than normal during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ubiquitinated protein measured the cell is higher than normal during a cellular response to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the deubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the deubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur after cells have been exposed to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is lower than normal during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ubiquitinated protein measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the deubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal after cells have been exposed to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule polymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through prophase of mitosis is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through prometaphase of mitosis is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to cadmium ions is lower than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer microtubule bundles than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain a detectable equatorial microtubule organizing center  ( emtoc )  .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  and morphology of astral microtubules is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable and has two nuclei but no septum ,  and the mitotic cell cycle is arrested before cell separation takes place .
a cellular process phenotype in which equatorial microtubule organizing center  ( emtoc )  assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic spindle pole body  ( spb )  moves rapidly back and forth to a lower extent and over a smaller area than normal ,  causing decreased chromosome movement .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of microtubules from one or more microtubule organizing centers  ( mtocs )  is abnormal .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of cytoplasmic microtubules from one or more microtubule organizing centers  ( mtocs )  is does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of cytoplasmic microtubules occurs to a lower extent than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of astral microtubules from the spindle pole body does not occur during mitosis .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of cytoplasmic microtubules from the interphase microtubule organizing center does not occur .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of cytoplasmic microtubules from the spindle pole body  ( spb )  does not occur during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of microtubules from the equatorial microtubule organizing center does not occur .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of cytoplasmic microtubules from the spindle pole body  ( spb )  normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the equatorial microtubule organizing center  ( emtoc )  does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the interphase microtubule organizing center does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to one or more microtubule organizing centers is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule polymerization ,  i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to hydroxyurea .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through anaphase b of mitosis is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the equatorial microtubule organizing center  ( emtoc )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the interphase microtubule organizing center  ( imtoc )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of the initiation of dna - dependent dna replication is abnormal ,  resulting in one or more rounds of rereplication of the entire genome ,  followed by cell cycle arrest .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer protein complexes consisting of cyclin b1 and cyclin - dependent kinase 1  ( cdk1 )  than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to cutin - 1  ( n - carbamoyl - 2 -  ( triphenyl - lambda - 5 - phosphanylidene ) acetamide )  .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which cell cycle regulation mediated by the mitotic cytokinesis checkpoint does not occur under conditions that normally trigger the checkpoint signaling and response .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleolus begins earlier than normal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which activation of an inactive protein kinase activity begins later than normal during mitosis .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of a protein kinase activity begins later than normal during mitosis .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosome recapture does not occur during metaphase of mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosome recapture is normal  ( i .e .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is curved  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a mitotic spindle assembles and begins to elongate ,  but becomes curved during anaphase b and eventually collapses .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of protein methyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of protein methyltransferase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of protein methyltransferase activity is decreased .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which deactivation of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint does not occur .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which deactivation of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint occurs more slowly than normal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which deactivation of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more ferrichromes measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of arginase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of arginase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which arginase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity is increased during a cellular response to iron ion starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutamate dehydrogenase activity using napd +  as a cofactor is decreased during a cellular response to iron ion starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is increased during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype in which prospore membrane formation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which prospore membrane formation begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which phosphorylation of serine at position 10 of histone h3 not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid segregation results in the division of chromosomes into two distinct unequal masses containing unseparated sister chromatids ,  located at or near the ends of an elongated mitotic spindle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of invertase activity  ( beta - fructofuranosidase activity )  is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of invertase activity  ( beta - fructofuranosidase activity )  is decreased under conditions of glucose starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of invertase activity  ( beta - fructofuranosidase activity )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein transport is abnormal .
a transport phenotype in which the export of protein from the nucleus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein export from nucleus is decreased when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein transport is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein export from nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to zeocin  ( phleomycin d1 )  .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates  ( dntps )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates  ( dntps )  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - alpha - d - glucan measured in the periplasmic space is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - glucan measured in the periplasmic space is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mannosylinositol phosphorylceramide  ( mipc )  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to one or more membranes does not occur .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication from late - firing origins is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at late - firing replication origins is increased .
a cell adhesion phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells adhere to each other more strongly or to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein glycosylation is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which homocitrate synthase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork pausing occurs to a greater extent than normal ,  including at sites where forks do not normally pause .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork pausing occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions containing g - quartet  ( g4 )  motifs .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork pausing occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions where rna polymerase ii actively transcribes genes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork pausing occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions where nucleosomes are depleted .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork pausing occurs to a greater extent than normal at trna genes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork pausing occurs to a greater extent than normal at ribosomal dna .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions containing g - quartet  ( g4 )  motifs .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions where rna polymerase ii actively transcribes genes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions where nucleosomes are depleted .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal at trna genes .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is elongated ,  has no septum ,  and contains one nucleus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of magnesium ions measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to acetaldehyde .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal during a cellular response to acetaldehyde .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of one or more chromosomes is abnormal during a cellular response to acetaldehyde .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mitotic cell cycle arrest that normally occurs in response to the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint is decreased .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint is lower than in wild type .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer mitotic checkpoint complexes than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic checkpoint complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent ,  and for a shorter time ,  than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs for a shorter time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break processing extends for a shorter distance from the breaks site than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break processing extends for a normal  ( i .e .
a dna recombination phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which gene conversion occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is curved along the long axis to form a  \ "c \ " shape .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is curved along the long axis to form a  \ "j \ " shape .
a cellular process phenotype in which a shmoo forms with normal morphology ,  but in an abnormal location .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a new growth zone forms along the lateral portion of the cell  ( often in the middle )  before septation ,  such that a single cell grows in the form of the letter t ,  when the cell undergoes transition from g0 phase to g2 .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is bent along the long axis .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is bent along the long axis when the cell undergoes transition from g0 phase to g1 .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the structure of microtubule bundles is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which microtubule bundles are shorter than normal and have an abnormal structure .
a physical cellular phenotype in which microtubule bundles are shorter than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of one or both cell tips is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule plus ends remain in contact with the cell cortex at cell tips for a shorter time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane of the cell tip occurs more slowly than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane of the cell tip occurs more quickly than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane of the lateral part of the cell occurs more slowly than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane of the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane of the lateral part of the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of movement of one or more proteins within the plasma membrane of a spore is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form astral microtubules that are shorter than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a new growth zone forms along the lateral portion of the cell  ( often in the middle )  before septation ,  such that a single cell grows in the form of the letter t ,  when the cell undergoes transition from g0 phase ,  re - entering the cell cycle phase from which it entered g0  ( g1 or g2 )  .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the biogenesis of nuclear membrane that normally forms part of mitosis is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to one or both ends of a microtubule is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plus ends of microtubules does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the perinuclear region of the cytoplasm is abnormal during mitotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule - based movement is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to one or both ends end of a microtubule does not occur during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the neddylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the neddylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of neddylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nedd8 - specific protease activity  ( deneddylase activity )  is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nedd8 - specific protease activity  ( deneddylase activity )  is decreased under conditions of glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of phosphatidylserine measured in the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the permeability of the plasma membrane to one or more substances is greater than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to iron ions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more generation of precursor metabolites and energy rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules to the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules to the cell tip is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules to the cortex of the cell tip is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules to the cell tip is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport to the cortex of the cell tip ,  driven by polymerization of a microtubule to which the protein is attached ,  is decreased .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the transport of proteins along microtubules does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules to the cell tip does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules to the cortex of the cell tip does not occur .
an abnormal intracellular mitochondrion distribution phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria cluster together more than normal with a cluster distal to each side of the nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of medial membrane band assembly is increased .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum that does not have uniform thickness and does not extend over the entire cell division site .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein transport along microtubules to the cortex of the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a cytoplasmic microtubule is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in silent mating - type cassettes does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in silent mating - type cassettes occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of h3 - k9 specific histone methyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of h3 - k9 specific histone methyltransferase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which h3 - k9 specific histone methyltransferase activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a smaller portion of the chromosome than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin at centromere outer repeat regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the biotinylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the biotinylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which filamentous actin  ( f - actin )  is present in the cytoplasm in the form of dense ,  irregularly shaped aggregates .
a cytokinesis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of actin cables is increased .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that undergoes a single round of cell division to produce daughter cells that have two or more septa apiece ,  which then die .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of antisense rna measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more translation rnas measured in a cell differs from normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the cell contains two or more detectable mei2 nuclear dot complexes instead of one .
a cell phenotype in which the cell contains a detectable mei2 nuclear dot complex during the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which ccr4 - not complex binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which mtrec complex binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally localized to discrete regions in the nucleus ,  visible as foci or dots by microscopy ,  is abnormally localized such that dots cannot be observed .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in subtelomeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in silent mating - type cassettes is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at ribosomal dna is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at ribosomal dna occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic recombination is increased at ribosomal dna .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable and has one nucleus and more than one septum ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum that does not completely bisect the cell .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a primary septum that is thinner than normal and does not extend over the entire cell division site .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the septum is in two asymmetrically located parts and does not completely bisect the cell .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a secondary septum that is thicker than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of medial membrane band assembly is decreased .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize proline ,  and therefore requires proline in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize tyrosine ,  and therefore requires tyrosine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize glutamate ,  and therefore requires glutamate in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize tryptophan ,  and therefore requires tryptophan in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are curved to form a  \ "c \ " shape ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form microtubules that are longer than normal and are curved ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ophthalmic acid measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of gamma - glutamyl - 2 - aminobutyrate  ( also called gamma - glu - abu )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow under anaerobic conditions .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to myxothiazol .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more heat shock elements  ( hses )  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenh3  ( also called cenp - a ;  cnp1 in s . pombe )  are assembled in one or more regions of the chromosome away from the centromere .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the nucleoplasm instead .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sodium chloride .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a nuclease activity is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process is increased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein found associated with chromatin is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is decreased during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is decreased during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is increased during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is increased during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin filament - based movement is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin filament - based movement is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin filament - based movement is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin filament - based movement is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction begins ,  but stops before the ring completely constricts and is disassembled .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of protein exchange in the actomyosin contractile ring is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which contractile ring assembly begins at the normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cgontractile ring contraction begins at the normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more messenger rnas that are normally expressed during a cellular response to stress measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mature 3' end of an rna molecule is abnormal during a cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the repair of double - strand breaks formed as part of meiotic recombination begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromatin remodeling that occurs as part of meiosis i is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromatin remodeling that occurs as part of meiosis i is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form linear element that are longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal at the portion of ribosomal dna encoding 5s rrna .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal at trna genes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal in subtelomeric regions .
a cell phenotype the localization of a protein to heterochromatin in subtelomeric regions is decreased .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to top - 53 .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 12 of histone h4 in centromere inner repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin assembly occurs to a lower extent than normal in subtelomeric regions .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of the histone variant h2a .z found associated with chromatin in subtelomeric regions is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of the histone variant h2a .z found associated with chromatin in centromere inner repeat regions is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during mitosis is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the monoubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the polyubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at the centromere outer repeat region is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal at the silent mating - type cassettes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal at long terminal repeat  ( ltr )  regions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the sumoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of intragenic meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at late replication origins is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at late replication origins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which the replicative lifespan of a cell population ,  i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which the replicative lifespan of a cell population ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic dna double - strand break clipping is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of intergenic meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosomal translocation that would result in the loss of one of two different alleles of a gene occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosomal truncation that would result in the loss of one of two different alleles of a gene occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosomal truncation that would result in the loss of one of two different alleles of a gene occurs at a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more cell cycle - regulated mrnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin regions where rna polymerase ii actively transcribes genes is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin regions where rna polymerase ii actively transcribes genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is greater than normal in chromatin regions where rna polymerase ii actively transcribes genes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is lower than normal in chromatin regions where rna polymerase ii actively transcribes genes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint is greater than in wild type during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation is normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of the entire mitotic cell cycle is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dephosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dephosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dephosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a spindle forms with microtubules emanating from three or more poles .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a mitotic spindle forms with microtubules emanating from three or more poles .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a meiotic spindle forms with microtubules emanating from three or more poles .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of sodium ions into a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of sodium ions into a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of lithium ions into a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of lithium ions into a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of potassium ions into a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of potassium ions into a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of sodium chloride than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of magnesium chloride than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which proton transport is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of proton export is decreased during a cellular response to glucose stimulus .
a phenotype in which a specific transport process is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in the mitochondria is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which lithium ion export from the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is increased during anaphase b .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a soluble protein forms prions ,  by refolding and assembling into highly ordered ,  self - propagating detergent -  and protease - resistant polymers .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which spliced forms of rnas transcribed from dg repeats in the centromere outer repeat region are present at higher levels than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin filament bundle organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of actin filament bundles is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of rna transcription rna polymerase i from a dna template is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of potassium ions out of a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of potassium ions out of a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to the dye congo red .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to acetic acid .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain fewer linear elements than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which microtubule anchoring at the cell cortex of the cell tip does not occur during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of a protein in a cell during conjugation with cellular fusion .
a cell phenotype in which a protein is localized to the cell cortex of the cell tip during karyogamy involved in conjugation with cellular fusion ,  but does not remain there continuously .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of the cell tip during karyogamy involved in conjugation with cellular fusion is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to p - bodies is decreased .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which translation in the cytoplasm is normal  ( i .e .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which shortening of the poly ( a )  tail of a nuclear - transcribed mrna is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature long non - coding rna  ( lncrna )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  primary transcript ,  rrna precursor or processing intermediate ,  or mature rrna measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  primary transcript ,  snrna precursor or processing intermediate ,  or mature snrna measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any small nucleolar rna  ( snorna )  primary transcript ,  snorna precursor or processing intermediate ,  or mature snorna measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any transfer rna  ( trna )  primary transcript ,  trna precursor or processing intermediate ,  or mature trna measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  primary transcript ,  rrna precursor or processing intermediate ,  or mature rrna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to p - bodies does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to p - bodies is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of cellular component organization at the cellular level is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubule organization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring localization is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable and has two nuclei but no septum ,  and the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in telophase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of localization of a protein to the site of cell division is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division begins at the normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer actin cables than normal during cytokinesis .
a cellular process phenotype in which a mating projection is assembled but does not meet a cell of the opposite mating type .
a cellular process phenotype in which mating projection assembly occurs along the lateral portion of the long axis of the cell instead of at one cell end .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is elongated ,  and does not form a mating projection under conditions that normally induce shmooing .
a phenotype in which the ascus is larger than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which one cell forms multiple mating projections that engage multiple partner cells .
a cell phenotype in which a cell has more than one septum ,  and forms a mating projection .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to urea .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains fewer nuclear pore complexes than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which excess endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  membrane forms stacks adjacent to the nucleus ,  known as karmellae .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin along the length of genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin along the length of genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the spindle pole body is abnormal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated ,  has two or more nuclei and more than one septum ,  and the septa are neither grouped together nor all placed with each septum forming a compartment with a single nucleus .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to one or more actin filaments is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to one or more actin filaments does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of actin filament bundles does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more actin cables than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cortical patches is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin filament depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain detectable actin cortical patches .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of nuclear dna replication begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is decreased during mitotic dna replication .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  morphology ,  or other physical characteristic of the mitochondrion is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitochondrial membrane potential ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more monomeric ribosomes  ( 80s monosomes )  in the cytosol than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer half - mer polysomes in the cytosol than normal .
a metabolism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of translation in the cytoplasm is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic metaphase chromosome recapture does not proceed until the kinetochore has moved all the way to the spindle pole body  ( spb )  ,  but kinetochores instead pause abnormally near the spb .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubules attached to the kinetochore lengthen instead of shortening during mitotic metaphase chromosome recapture .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic metaphase chromosome recapture is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic metaphase chromosome recapture is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of kinetochore sliding ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form mitotic spindle microtubules that are longer than normal ,  and the protruding kinetochore microtubules are surrounded by an extension of the nuclear envelope ,  with the kinetochore - attached end at the distal tip of the protrusion .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic sister chromatid biorientation begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which in which chromosomes do not align at the midpoint of the long axis of the mitotic spindle during metaphase chromosome congression .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distance between sister kinetochores is smaller than normal before the onset of mitotic anaphase .
a cell phenotype in which a mitotic spindle assembles ,  but does not remain at a constant length or gradually elongate .
a cell phenotype in which a mitotic spindle assembles ,  but then undergoes large changes in length ,  instead of remaining at a constant length or gradually elongating .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic sister chromatid separation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the localization of lipid droplets to the prospore membrane occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the localization of lipid droplets to the prospore membrane occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the spore cytoplasm contains fewer lipid droplets than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of lipid droplet formation is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the spindle pole body does not attach to the prospore membrane during prospore membrane formation and closure .
a cellular process phenotype in which vacuole fusion ,  the merging of two vacuole membranes to form a single vacuole ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which vacuole fusion ,  the merging of two vacuole membranes to form a single vacuole ,  is abnormal during sporulation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the septin ring is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the septin ring does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septin ring assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one septin ring assembles in the normal location ,  but one or more additional septin rings also form in abnormal locations .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septin ring assembly begins in mitotic interphase instead of during nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septin ring disassembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septin ring disassembly begins later than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to one or more alpha / beta tubulin heterodimers does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which microtubule polymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endoplasmic reticulum is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and a small rna  ( srna )  is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the addition of one or more adenylyl residues to the 3' end of a small rna  ( srna )  molecule occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the addition of one or more adenylyl residues to the 3' end of a small rna  ( srna )  molecule occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the addition of one or more uridylyl residues to the 3' end of a small rna  ( srna )  molecule does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process that specifically degrades small rna molecules is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal at ribosomal dna .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of the mature 25s rrna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature sirna measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal at ribosomal dna .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small interfering rna transcripts derived from ribosomal rna are present at greater levels than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at ribosomal dna repeat regions is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to nuclear exosome foci is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cortical patches is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin filament depolymerization ,  i .e .
a sporulation phenotype in which asci that contain four spores form following conjugation and subsequent sporulation ,  but sporulation is not entirely normal .
a cell phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to cold shock .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which intramolecular conversion of uridine to pseudouridine in an snrna molecule is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which one or more bridges consisting of unresolved intertwined sister chromatids form following replication fork arrest ,  and persist until mitotic anaphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna resection does not occur upstream of a stalled replication fork .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione hydrolase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glutathione hydrolase activity is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patch internalization begins earlier than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches are localized more towards the end of the cell ,  with fewer patches in the lateral cortex ,  than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate or other property of a microfilament motor activity is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of actin filament bundles is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of actin filament bundles is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cables is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cables is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to all or part of the cytoplasm is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the nucleus instead .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the morphology of cytoplasmic microtubules is abnormal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain detectable cytoplasmic microtubules during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are shorter than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of retrotransposon integration is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the removal of tubulin dimers from a microtubule occurs to a greater extent than normal in the lateral part of the cell .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at the central core of the centromeric regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which haploid cells mate and undergo meiotic nuclear division and sporulation in the presence of nutrients ,  notably nitrogen and glucose .
a cellular process phenotype in which actin fusion focus assembly is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small interfering rna transcripts derived from subtelomeric regions are present at greater levels than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small interfering rna transcripts derived from the silent mating - type cassettes are present at greater levels than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in subtelomeric regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in silent mating - type cassettes does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna found associated with chromatin is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of oxidation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is increased ,  resulting in the accumulation of proteins with oxidative modifications including carbonylated proteins ,  during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cortical patches does not occur .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid and has two or more septa .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 5 - fluoroorotic acid  ( 5 - foa )  .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in or on actin cables is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cortical patches is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which membrane raft distribution ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of one or more specific proteins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of peptidyl - arginine to form peptidyl - n ( omega )  , n ( omega )  - dimethyl - l - arginine in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of peptidyl - arginine to form peptidyl - n ( omega )  , n ( omega )  - dimethyl - l - arginine in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a nuclear body is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and polyadenylated rna  ( poly ( a )  rna )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein oligomerization is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of the second meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of nuclear migration involved in conjugation with cellular fusion is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to one or more microtubules does not occur during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of gluconate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mevalonate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phytosphingosine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 2 - palmitoleoylglycerophosphoinositol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of citrate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 2 , 3 - butanediol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 1 - stearoylglycerophosphocholine  ( 18:0 )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of cis - aconitate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 2 - myristoylglycerophosphocholine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 1 - eicosenoylglycerophosphocholine  ( 20:1n9 )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing gluconate as the carbon source .
a cellular process phenotype in which the transition from g0 phase  ( quiescence )  to g1 is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dephosphorylation of protein tyrosine residues begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of gluconate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to copper ions is lower than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to copper ion starvation and during the meiotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna transcribed from early meiotic genes measured in a cell is lower than normal during a cellular response to copper ion starvation during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription does not occur when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to idarubicin .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sumo - specific protease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of sumo - specific protease activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding at a strep motif by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more pheromone response mrnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more mating mrnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sodium arsenite  ( asnao2 )  .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of oxidation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to linear elements is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad51 accumulates is lower than normal during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is abolished during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to linear elements is decreased .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is branched ,  has more than one nucleus ,  and has a larger volume and is longer ,  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  branched ,  has more than one nucleus ,  and has a larger volume and is longer ,  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  branched ,  has more than one nucleus ,  and has a larger volume and is longer ,  than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to copper ion starvation is lower than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle elongation takes place during anaphase a .
a cell phenotype in which a short mitotic spindle assembles and elongates during prophase ,  but does not elongate further during anaphase b and eventually collapses .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle elongation does not occur during prophase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle elongation does not occur during anaphase b .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is abnormal during metaphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin cortical patch localization is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches move within the cell cortex in a less directed manner than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin cortical patch localization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the lateral attachment of sister chromatids to mitotic spindle microtubules is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule polymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the nucleus instead ,  during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to a cytoplasmic microtubule is decreased during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abnormal during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more messenger rnas that are normally expressed during a cellular response to osmotic stress measured in a cell differs from normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of contractile ring assembly is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actomyosin contractile ring assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of protein exchange in the actomyosin contractile ring is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cables is normal  ( i .e .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is longer than normal during anaphase a .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead ,  during mitosis .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid ,  has no septum ,  and has a normal volume .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the mating projection is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that is spherical ,  and undergoes one or two rounds of cell division before all cells die ,  and some cells lyse .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which all detectable microtubules are present in fewer bundles than normal  ( usually only one or two )  ,  and bundles are longer than normal and curved around one or both ends of the cell .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form cytoplasmic microtubules that are shorter than normal and have abnormal orientation .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  has one nucleus ,  and has normal length but a greater diameter than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  has two nuclei ,  and has normal length but a greater diameter than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable and has more than one nucleus ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to phosphate starvation .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of an adenine biosynthetic process is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hydroxyurea is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of datp measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dctp measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dgtp measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is decreased during a cellular response to phosphate starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin filament depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular response to copper ion starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to copper ion starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to copper ion starvation is lower than normal during spore germination .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates but dies before forming a germ tube or dividing .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates but dies before forming a germ tube or dividing ,  when spore germination takes place under conditions of copper ion starvation .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the septum is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of spore germination is decreased when germination takes place under conditions of copper ion starvation .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer actin cables than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which establishment of actomyosin contractile ring localization is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the border of the nuclear and nucleolar regions is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to potassium ion starvation .
a cell growth phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell septum does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more phosphatidylinositol phosphates measured in the plasma membrane is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of ferrous iron ions into a cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of ferrous iron ions into a cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tetramethylammonium .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to spermidine .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the plasma membrane potential ,  i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the plasma membrane potential ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein phosphorylation is longer than normal during a cellular response to phosphate starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of translational initiation in the cytoplasm is decreased during a cellular response to oxidative stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of translational initiation in the cytoplasm is decreased during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to hydrogen peroxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the vacuolar membrane is decreased .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is increased relative to normal in a medium containing gluconate as the carbon source .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any macromolecular complex present in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain a normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of dna strand elongation involved in mitotic nuclear dna replication is decreased during a cellular response to dna damage .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication is abnormal during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication forks stall at a lower frequency in mutant cells than in wild type during a cellular response to dna damage .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation is abnormal over short  ( less than 90 kb )  ranges within a chromosome arm .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation does not occur over short  ( less than 90 kb )  ranges within a chromosome arm .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation is decreased over medium  ( 90 - 940 kb )  ranges within a chromosome arm .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is increased during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins earlier than normal during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of centromeres and associated kinetochores into a cluster at the nuclear periphery is increased during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna aminoacylation ,  the formation of an ester bond between a trna molecule and an amino acid specified by the trna anticodon ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna aminoacylation ,  the formation of an ester bond between a trna molecule and an amino acid specified by the trna anticodon ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna aminoacylation ,  the formation of an ester bond between a trna molecule and an amino acid specified by the trna anticodon ,  is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the folding of trnas into the correct tertiary structure is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and transfer rna  ( trna )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of ribosomal footprint lengths in a cell differs from wild type .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of ribosomal footprint lengths in a cell includes more short footprints than wild type when the cell undergoes an endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response  ( upr )  .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin unloading is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the duration of prophase of mitosis normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the length of the mitotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the formation of chromatin knobs in subtelomeric regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 does not occur .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is inviable and has two nuclei ,  and the cell diameter is larger than normal and the cell length is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic sister chromatid separation is decreased at the telomeric regions during anaphase b .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuoles are larger than normal after a cell has been subjected to hypotonic osmotic stress .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size of the fungal - type vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere clustering and tethering at the nuclear periphery is increased during mitotic metaphase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to phosphate starvation is higher than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to floxuridine  ( 5 - fluoro - 2' - deoxyuridine )  .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of nuclear dna replication begins earlier than normal at origins that normally fire late .
a phenotype in which the structure of the glycan moiety of a nascent glycoprotein in the endoplasmic reticulum lumen differs from wild type .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of soluble cytosolic proteins to the vacuole lumen via the nvt pathway does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which pyknosis ,  the form of chromatin condensation typical of cell death by apoptosis ,  occurs at a greater frequency than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which karyorrhexis ,  the nuclear fragmentation typical of cell death by apoptosis ,  occurs at a greater frequency than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a phenotype in which the structure of an n - linked glycan moiety of a nascent or mature glycoprotein differs from wild type .
a phenotype in which the structure of an o - linked glycan moiety of a nascent or mature glycoprotein differs from wild type .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase ii is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of crossover formation as part of mitotic recombination is increased in centromeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic recombination is decreased in centromeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of mitotic recombination is decreased at chromosome arms .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dihydroxylation of one or more proline residues in specific proteins ,  or at specific protein sites ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dihydroxylation of one or more proline residues in specific proteins ,  or at specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of localization of a protein to the telomere of a chromosome is longer than normal during anaphase b of mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain a normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of tyrosine residues in one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phytoceramide measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein localization to the vacuole does not occur ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the vacuole lumen via the nvt pathway is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which macroautophagy is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which macroautophagy does not occur when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of transcription by glucose  ( glucose repression )  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a phenotype in which the processed 5 .8s ribosomal rna is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which formation of the mature 3' end of the 5 .8s ribosomal rna molecule is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat regions is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at centromere inner repeat regions is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which a ribonuclease activity is absent .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which changes in contacts within a chromosome arm that normally take place during mitosis do not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which f - actin forms a large spot in the medial region of the cell ,  instead of assembling into a contractile ring .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to one or more actin monomers is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an actin filament - based process ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin filament severing is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form actin cables that are thicker than normal in the medial region of the cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is greater than normal at promoters containing flex elements .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 3' - diphospho - 5' - guanosine diphosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna - 3' - diphospho - 5' - guanosine diphosphatase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of dna - 3' - diphospho - 5' - guanosine diphosphatase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which progression from meiotic g2 phase to m phase of meiosis i does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which formation of the ascus ,  the sac - like structure that encloses spores ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome segregation does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain more spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  than normal during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is decreased during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the extent of dna resection upstream of a stalled replication fork is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the extent of dna resection upstream of a stalled replication fork is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the increase in small deletions or duplications  (  \ "replication slippage \ " )  that normally results from processing arrested replication forks is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at stalled replication forks is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at stalled replication forks is increased .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after stalled replication forks accumulate .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the septin ring is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is elongated ,  may contain a septum ,  and contains multiple nuclei  ( usually four or more )  per compartment .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is decreased in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of protein exchange in the medial cortical nodes is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured in any spliceosomal complex is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which organelle localization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the attachment of an endoplasmic reticulum membrane to the plasma membrane via molecular tethers occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a biological process phenotype in which the observed mating efficiency is lower than normal when the population in which the mating cells are found is in stationary phase .
a biological process phenotype in which the observed mating efficiency is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of zinc ion binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to zinc ion starvation is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of microtubules from one or more microtubule organizing centers  ( mtocs )  occurs to a lesser extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of microtubules from one or more microtubule organizing centers  ( mtocs )  occurs to a lesser extent than normal during mitosis .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of cytoplasmic microtubules from the spindle pole body  ( spb )  occurs to a lesser extent than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the divided nuclei are located near the cell tips  ( instead of at the midpoint of the long axis of each daughter cell )  during telophase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a cell has one nucleus that is not in the normal location .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which endocytosis occurs only at the old end of the cell during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which endocytosis does not occur in the equatorial region of the cell during mitosis as in wild - type cells .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to one or more microtubules occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule bundle formation ,  which normally results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules ,  does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the plasma membrane is observed there .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein phosphorylation is longer than normal the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic spindle has two poles and can elongate during anaphase ,  but has decreased and non - uniform thickness along its length .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to mechlorethamine .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at one or more specific promoter elements is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at ribosomal dna repeat regions is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle microtubules become disconnected from the spindle pole body .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of filamentous actin  ( f - actin )  in the actomyosin contractile ring is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rnas transcribed from the centromere central core are present at greater levels than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription is abnormal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription begins later than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromatin remodeling ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromatin remodeling ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromatin remodeling ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of a protein in cis and trans between heterochromatin domains occurs to a lower extent than normal in regions of pericentric heterochromatin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of a protein in cis and trans between heterochromatin domains occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions of pericentric heterochromatin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which small interfering rna transcripts derived from the lncrna borderline are present at lower levels than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the spindle forms with microtubules emanating from only one pole during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which meiotic spindle microtubules become disconnected from the spindle pole body during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the meiotic spindle pole body  ( spb )  dissociates from the nucleus .
a meiosis phenotype in which meiotic telomere clustering does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in one or more heterochromatin domains occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of a protein in cis and trans between heterochromatin domains occurs to a lower extent than normal in regions of subtelomeric heterochromatin .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosomes or sister chromatids do not separate completely during meiosis i or meiosis ii ,  and partially separated dna masses are connected by one or more bridges formed of chromatin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in one or more heterochromatin islands occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein processing is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the protein processing does not occur when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular metabolism phenotype in which the observed occurrence of protein processing is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the endoplasmic reticulum is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endoplasmic reticulum is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus does not occur when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell wall organization is abnormal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a sporulation phenotype that results in the formation of an ascus that contains spores of non - uniform size and dna content ,  as well as dna that is not contained within any of the spores .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of endocytosis is decreased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that normally localizes to a compact region at the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is more dispersed than normal .
a cell phenotype in which mitotic spindle pole body organization is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which meiotic spindle pole body organization is abnormal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which the meiotic spindle pole body  ( spb )  moves rapidly back and forth within the nuclear envelope to a normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more than one meiotic spindle during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype in which the cell does not contain a detectable meiotic spindle during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is abolished during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype that affects the localization of a structure or substance in a cell during a meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which localization of the meiotic spindle is abnormal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which interphase microtubule organizing center  ( imtoc )  assembly is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubules become detached from the nuclear envelope  ( ne )  .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to leucine starvation .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the septin ring is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the frequency of dna replication initiation is higher than normal at inefficient origins ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more 2' - deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates  ( dntps )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 in one or more promoter regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 in one or more promoter regions does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which the spindle pole body is broken into fragments .
a cell phenotype in which the meiotic spindle pole body is broken into fragments .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the spindle pole body is abnormal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to nitrosative stress .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of nitric oxide measured in a cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of nitric oxide measured in a cell is higher than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of nitric oxide measured in a cell is lower than normal when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a gene expression phenotype in which the levels of rnas that encode histones ,  which normally vary over the course of the mitotic cell cycle ,  remain constant .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more histone rnas measured in a cell is lower than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more histone rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more histone rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a spindle phenotype in which the meiotic spindles in adjacent dividing nuclei overlap during meiosis ii .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of meiotic sister chromatid separation does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of the cleavage and rejoining of intermediates formed during meiotic recombination is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the cleavage and rejoining of intermediates formed during meiotic recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which sites at which the protein rad51 accumulates remain present for longer than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which sites at which the protein rad51 accumulates remain present for a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein fbh1  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more histone rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is decreased in centromeric regions during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids does not occur in centromeric regions during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during the first meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore during the first meiotic nuclear division does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the stable attachment of sister chromatids to microtubules emanating from opposite poles of the mitotic spindle during metaphase plate congression is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in subtelomeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and contains a single nucleus .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic spindle pole body is larger than normal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vesicle - mediated transport is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the tubular endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical node of a cell is decreased ,  and the protein is instead detected distributed throughout the cell cortex .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of fad binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the s - phase dna damage checkpoint  ( also known as the intra - s phase dna damage checkpoint )  is abnormal when the cell is exposed to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic dna damage checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which dna molecules corresponding to alkylation damage repair intermediates are absent from the cell during dna replication .
a cell phenotype in which the level of x - shaped dna replication intermediates is greater than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a protein kinase activity is absent during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is increased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype in which the proteolytic processing of sterol regulatory element binding protein  ( srebp )  into its transcriptionally active form is activated continuously .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription of amino acid biosynthesis genes from rna polymerase ii promoters occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a conjugation phenotype in which regulation of transcription in response to starvation for one or more amino acids is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of translation of one or more proteins involved in amino acid biosynthesis is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any unspliced or incompletely spliced mrna precursor measured in the mitochondrion is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cleavage furrow does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  localization of a protein from the golgi apparatus to the cleavage furrow ring is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of histone h3 acetylation is lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the substrate specificity of a gene product that executes histone h3 acetyltransferase activity is altered .
a molecular function phenotype in which methylated histone binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed processivity of a histone h3 acetyltransferase activity is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate or other catalytic property of a histone acetyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle is abolished during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle is abolished during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the central core of the centromeric regions is abolished during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype that affects histone modification .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein modification is abnormal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal in regions containing protein - coding genes during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal in telomeric regions during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal at the silent mating - type cassette during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mrna cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor complex assembly is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere length is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of mature non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of mature ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  measured in a cell differs from normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of translation of one or more proteins involved in amino acid biosynthesis is decreased in response to starvation for one or more amino acids .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription of amino acid biosynthesis genes from rna polymerase ii promoters occurs to a lower extent than normal in response to starvation for one or more amino acids .
a gene expression phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of translation in response to starvation for one or more amino acids is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which a short mitotic spindle assembles ,  and may begin elongation ,  but does not elongate normally or completely ,  and eventually collapses .
a cellular process phenotype in which the onset of anaphase of the mitotic cell cycle begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the metaphase / anaphase transition of the mitotic cell cycle is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin dsdna  ( leading strand )  loading is decreased during the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which cohesin loading is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which cohesin loading is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin ssdna  ( lagging strand )  loading is increased during the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin ssdna  ( lagging strand )  loading is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin ssdna  ( lagging strand )  loading is decreased during the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cohesin dsdna  ( leading strand )  loading does not occur during the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 - bisphosphate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 - bisphosphate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 - phosphate measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the duration of m phase of the mitotic cell cycle is shorter than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of chitin synthase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which chitin synthase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of chitin synthase activity is increased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of ribosomal dna  ( rdna )  repeats present in the rdna arrays on chromosome iii is significantly lower than the range in wild type cells .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna - dna hybrid molecules is greater than normal at trna genes .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of phosphatidylserine in the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of phosphatidylserine in the plasma membrane is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a cellular process phenotype in which disassembly of the cell wall at the site of cell - cell fusion during mating is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which disassembly of the cell wall at the site of cell - cell fusion during mating begins earlier than normal ,  e .g .
a cellular process phenotype in which actin fusion focus assembly begins earlier than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of one or both cell tips does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the actin fusion focus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell forms two or more shmoos ,  usually in succession ,  without fusing with a partner cell .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which duplication of dna sequences in the subtelomeric region occur more frequently than in wild type cells during g0 phase .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the telomere is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which telomere length is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which chromosome structure is abnormal at the telomeric regions .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells form telomeres that are shorter than normal during g0 phase .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the telomere is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the telomere is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which chromosome structure is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which telomere length is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which telomere length is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which chromosome structure is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of cytoplasmic translation is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitotic sister chromatid cohesion is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after arrest at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase following arrest at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which sister kinetochores separate during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which sister kinetochores of a replicated chromosome separate prematurely when the population in which the cell is found is in stationary phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of hydrolysis of peptide bonds within a protein is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of hydrolysis of peptide bonds within a protein is decreased during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is abnormal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is abolished during prophase of the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype which protein degradation begins later than normal during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the centromere of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell periphery is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell periphery does not occur when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell periphery is increased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell periphery is increased .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to a pheromone .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell is shaped in the form of a spheroid during a cellular response to a pheromone .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains more than one septum during a cellular response to a pheromone .
a cellular process phenotype in which actin cytoskeleton organization is abnormal during a cellular response to pheromone .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during mating is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during mitosis is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during metaphase of mitosis is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal during mitosis .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of one or more lipids in a cellular membrane is abnormal .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of one or more lipids in a cellular membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of phosphatidylserine  ( ps )  in the plasma membrane is abnormal such that the ps level is lower than normal at one or both cell tips .
a cellular process phenotype in which gene expression occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which gene expression occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which gene expression occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which gene expression is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of two or more proteins to dna is abnormal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  has four nuclei and three septa ,  and the septa are not grouped together ,  but are located so as to form separate compartments with a single nucleus in each .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation after cytokinesis does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septum disassembly does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic spindle disassembly begins later than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is decreased during the g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to a cdk - cyclin complex is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mbf complex assembly is abolished during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to ethanol when the cell population is in stationary phase .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable under conditions of phosphate starvation .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable under conditions of sulfur starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which dna repair is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic mismatch repair is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna repair is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which uv - damage excision repair is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity is increased during a cellular response to a pheromone .
a cellular process phenotype in which protein degradation does not occur during a cellular response to a pheromone .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to a pheromone is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to a pheromone is normal  ( i .e .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which abnormal negative regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication results in one or more rounds of rereplication of the entire genome ,  but takes place during s phases that appear nearly normal apart from occurring without intervening mitoses .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which abnormal negative regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication results in one or more rounds of rereplication of the entire genome ,  and other features of s phase are abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of p ( 1 )  , p ( 4 )  - bis ( 5' - adenosyl )  tetraphosphate  ( ap4a )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to manganese .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of amiodarone than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to fenpropimorph .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of bis ( 5' - nucleosyl )  - tetraphosphatase  ( asymmetrical )  activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear periphery is decreased during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane at the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane at the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the endoplasmic reticulum instead .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane at the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is abolished ,  and the protein is instead detected distributed over a greater area of the plasma membrane than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane at the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane at the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present in the endoplasmic reticulum instead .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane at the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is decreased ,  and some of the protein is instead detected distributed over a greater area of the plasma membrane than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is not normally found in the endoplasmic reticulum is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dna damage measured in a cell during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle is greater than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitotic spindle forms with microtubules emanating from only one pole ,  nucleated from the old spindle pole body .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of spindle microtubules from the spindle pole body  ( spb )  occurs to a lesser extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which localization of the gamma - tubulin complex to the spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas transcribed from genes encoding flocculins measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more cell wall organization rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which phosphorylation of threonine at position 3 of histone h3 is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is decreased during metaphase of mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to centromeric chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at the mps1 barrier in the mating - type locus occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at the rts1 barrier in the mating - type locus occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at abnormal replication fork arrest at sites within the eukaryotic trna transcription unit occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the s - phase dna damage checkpoint  ( also known as the intra - s phase dna damage checkpoint )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally dynamically localized to a specific place in the cell shows an abnormal temporal pattern of localization .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is normally localized intermittently to the cdr2 medial cortical node complex shows an abnormal pattern of localization to the complex over time .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is normally localized intermittently to the cdr2 medial cortical node complex shows a pattern of localization to the complex over time that is not correlated with cell size as normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is normally localized intermittently to the cdr2 medial cortical node complex is associated with the complex for periods of shorter duration than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is normally localized intermittently to the cdr2 medial cortical node complex is associated with the complex for periods of longer duration than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is normally localized intermittently to the cdr2 medial cortical node complex is associated with the complex less frequently than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is decreased at sequences that cause rna polymerase to terminate transcription .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase ii occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase ii occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell has a greater diameter  ( thickness ;  width )  than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable and has a diameter greater than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is viable ,  elongated ,  and has a greater diameter than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal during a cellular response to bleomycin .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of polyadenylated messenger rna  ( mrna )  measured in the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of chromatin organization is abnormal when the cell is returned to glucose - rich medium following glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which deacetylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of binding to double - stranded dna containing a g / t mispair by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate measured in the plasma membrane is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate measured in the plasma membrane is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 4 , 5 - bisphosphate measured in the plasma membrane is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 4 , 5 - bisphosphate measured in the plasma membrane is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 4 , 5 - bisphosphate measured in the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate measured in the plasma membrane is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate measured in the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  elongated ,  has no septum ,  and contains four nuclei .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more free fatty acids measured in the cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which cell length ,  i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell length ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a protein is detected abnormally distributed throughout the cell cortex .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of one or both cell tips is decreased ,  and an increased amount of the protein is instead detected distributed throughout the cell cortex .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex of a cell is decreased ,  and the protein is instead detected distributed throughout the cell cortex .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a normal diameter  ( thickness ;  width )  .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is abnormal during anaphase b of mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a short mitotic spindle assembles and elongates during prophase ,  but does not elongate further and eventually collapses during metaphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone is decreased ,  and some of the protein is present along the entire length of the spindle ,  during anaphase b of mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone during metaphase is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the duration of prometaphase of mitosis normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' - 3' dna / rna helicase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' - 3' dna / rna helicase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which 5' - 3' dna / rna helicase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an atp - dependent protein - dna complex displacement activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which an atp - dependent protein - dna complex displacement activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a dna / dna annealing activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of flap - structured dna binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of g - quadruplex dna binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the unwinding of g - quadruplex dna structures does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the unwinding of g - quadruplex dna structures occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which acid phosphatase activity is absent during a cellular response to phosphate starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of acid phosphatase activity is decreased during a cellular response to phosphate starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  begins later than normal during the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable upon exiting g0 phase .
a cell phenotype in which the nucleus is broken into multiple small fragments that are smaller than a normal nucleus .
a cell phenotype observed during g0 phase in which the nucleus is broken into multiple small fragments that are smaller than a normal nucleus .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the nucleus is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed during g0 phase in which the nucleus is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which autophagy of the nucleus occurs to a greater extent than normal during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which double - strand break processing extends for a longer distance from the breaks site than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed during g0 phase in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the nucleus is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed during g0 phase in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which one cell mates with two partners ,  leading to the fusion of three cells .
a cellular process phenotype in which a haploid nucleus undergoes meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells fuse for a much shorter time than normal during mating ,  separate with incomplete exchange of cytosol contents ,  and the conjugation pore then reseals .
a cellular process phenotype in which mating cells undergo transient cell fusion  ( cytogamy )  ,  and then one or both cells undergo haploid meiosis and sporulation .
a cell phenotype in which the total amount of dna in a spore is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished during conjugation .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed during conjugation in which a pattern of transcriptional regulation that normally differs between parental genomes has the opposite parental specificity compared to normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at double - strand break sites by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal during a cellular response to chromium ions .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to bisphenol a .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at centromere outer repeat regions is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at centromere inner repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and rnas transcribed from the centromeric region is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed during mating in which the localization of a protein produced by one cell to the nucleus of its mating partner  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which dna double - strand break resection is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which dna double - strand break resection that occurs as part of double - strand break repair via homologous recombination is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transversion mutations occur at a higher frequency than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which insertion or deletion mutations occur at a higher frequency than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell proceeds through the mitotic metaphase / anaphase transition in the presence of an uncorrected problem  ( such as chromosome structure or kinetochore attachment )  ,  and as a result undergoes abnormal chromosome segregation and subsequently dies .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell proceeds through the mitotic metaphase / anaphase transition in the presence of an uncorrected problem  ( such as chromosome structure or kinetochore attachment )  ,  and as a result undergoes abnormal nuclear envelope partitioning and subsequently dies .
an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation despite abnormal mitotic sister chromatid separation ,  producing inviable daughter cells ,  and in which the septum forms so as to separate the nucleus into two unequal masses ,  each in one compartment .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal during g0 phase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of s - adenosyl - l - methionine  ( sam )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  ( sah )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - methionine measured in the cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 5 - phosphoribosyl diphosphate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of hercynylcysteine sulfoxide measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of cdp measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of ump measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of adenine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of udp measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of sedoheptulose - 7 - phosphate measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more pentose phosphates measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which a calcium - transporting atpase activity is absent .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of calcium ions from the cytosol to the endoplasmic reticulum is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to a ph above 7 .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  does not occur during a cellular response to a ph above 7 .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of acetyl - coa measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of malonyl - coa measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more free fatty acids measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a mitosis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleus divides unequally to produce one daughter nucleus that is larger than the other .
a mitosis phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromosomes segregate equally  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of protein phosphorylation is longer than normal during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial fission does not occur during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cellular response phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the regulation of the mitotic cell cycle in response to osmotic stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cdr2 medial cortical node complex does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cdr2 medial cortical node complex is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that normally moves away from cdr2 medial cortical node complexes during a cellular response to osmotic stress instead remains predominantly in the nodes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which movement of a protein away from cdr2 medial cortical node complexes during a cellular response to osmotic stress is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of microtubule binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cmg complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna strand elongation involved in mitotic nuclear dna replication does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of nuclear dna replication does not occur at one or more origins .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to regions of chromatin distal to replication origins is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which strand elongation during nuclear dna replication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cmg complex moves away from replication origins to a lesser extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to transcribed regions of chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which movement of the cmg complex away from replication origins during dna replication is normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at replication origins begins later than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of tschimganine than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which the proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase does not change in the presence of tschimganine .
a cell population phenotype in which the proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase does not change in the presence of alpha - hibitakanine .
a cell population phenotype in which the proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase does not change in the presence of beta - hibitakanine .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at promoters that contain mcb sites is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at promoters that contain mcb sites is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is greater than normal at promoters containing one or more mlui cell cycle box factor elements  ( mcbs )  .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more mlui cell cycle box factor elements  ( mcbs )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during a cellular response to osmotic stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is decreased during a cellular response to tschimganine .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the thickness of the cell wall is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the fungal - type cell wall is thinner than normal at one or both cell tips .
an abnormal intracellular mitochondrion distribution phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria cluster together more than normal ,  distal to the side of the nucleus near the old cell end .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more transfer rna precursor ( s )   ( pre - trna )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more transfer rna precursor ( s )   ( pre - trna )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more transfer rna precursor ( s )   ( pre - trna )  measured in a cell that is subject to nitrogen starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 20 of histone h4 in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which promoter - enhancer looping occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at one or more specific promoter element ( s )  is decreased when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at one or more specific promoter element ( s )  is increased when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at one or more specific promoter element ( s )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is too low to detect during g1 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromosome organization is abnormal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which centromeres do not detach properly from the spindle pole body  ( spb )  during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which cell cycle regulation mediated by the meiotic cell cycle dna replication checkpoint does not occur under conditions that normally trigger the checkpoint signaling and response .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the meiotic cell cycle dna replication checkpoint is activated at a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins occurs to a lower extent than normal during the meiotic cell cycle ,  in cells that have not arrested the meiotic cell cycle under conditions that normally trigger meiotic dna replication checkpoint signaling and response .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity is increased during the meiotic cell cycle ,  in cells that have not arrested the meiotic cell cycle under conditions that normally trigger meiotic dna replication checkpoint signaling and response .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of protein degradation is increased during the meiotic cell cycle ,  in cells that have not arrested the meiotic cell cycle under conditions that normally trigger meiotic dna replication checkpoint signaling and response .
a cellular process phenotype in which kinetochore disassembly is abnormal during prophase of meiosis i .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a cell has actin cortical patches in one or more abnormal locations .
a physical cellular phenotype in which actin cortical patches are localized throughout the cell cortex during mating .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the prospore septin ring does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the prospore septin ring is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the prospore membrane forms ,  and may complete closure ,  without enclosing a nucleus ;  one or more nuclei may be present in the ascus ,  not enclosed by any prospore membrane .
a cellular process phenotype in which the septin ring does not associate with the prospore membrane during prospore membrane formation and closure .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of spermidine than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to rbin - 1 .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of rbin - 1 than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured in a complex that is a precursor of the large ribosomal subunit is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more carbohydrate metabolism rnas measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuoles tubule - shaped .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of poly ( a )  - specific ribonuclease activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of poly ( a )  - specific ribonuclease activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of poly ( a )  - specific ribonuclease activity is normal  ( i .e .
a biological process phenotype in which meiotic drive occurs to a lower extent than normal ,  or does not occur at all ,  despite the presence of a gene or allele that normally causes drive .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains a normal number of lipid droplets .
a molecular function phenotype in which urease activity is absent .
a biological process phenotype in which the specificity between a meiotic driver gene and a drive suppressor gene differs from that observed when both genes are wild type .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  branched ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cortical patches is abolished ,  and some of the protein is present in the nucleus instead .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to actin cortical patches is abolished ,  and some of the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation after cytokinesis begins later than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to the nuclear mis12 / mind complex is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which nuclear mis12 / mind complex binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of centromeres and associated kinetochores into a cluster at the nuclear periphery is decreased during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype  observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which filamentous actin  ( f - actin )  is present in a dispersed form in the cell .
a molecular function phenotype in which a dna - directed dna polymerase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate and other catalytic properties of a 5' - deoxyribose - 5 - phosphate lyase activity are normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a galactosyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a galactosyltransferase activity is decreased .
a phenotype in which the glycan moiety of a glycoprotein found at the cell surface contains a lower amount of galactose residues than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the degradation of messenger rna  ( mrna )  molecules via the deadenylation - dependent pathway ,  which includes poly ( a )  tail shortening ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which shortening of the poly ( a )  tail of a messenger rna  ( mrna )  molecule is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which large chromosomal rearrangements occur less frequently than in wild type cells .
a cell phenotype in which large chromosomal rearrangements occur at a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured in the rna polymerase ii core complex is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in centromere inner repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at centromere outer repeat regions is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells elongate at a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate of cell growth is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells elongate more slowly than normal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable and elongates at a normal rate ,  but divides when a shorter time than normal has elapsed since the previous cell division .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell is viable ,  but elongates at a slower rate than normal and divides with an abnormally low volume .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body begins earlier than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body does not occur during mitosis .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to 4 - fluorophenylalanine .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of zinc ion measured in the cytosol is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of zinc ion measured in the cytosol is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to zinc ion starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to replete levels of zinc ion is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which primary cell septum biogenesis begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which primary cell septum biogenesis begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which primary cell septum biogenesis  begins at the normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of primary cell septum biogenesis is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of glucan endo - 1 , 3 - beta - glucanase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to magnesium chloride .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dephosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during cytokinesis .
a cellular process phenotype in which linear element maturation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the assembly of a protein complex at the cellular level is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which line complex assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through s phase of the meiotic cell cycle  ( preceding meiosis i )  is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenh3  ( also called cenp - a ;  cnp1 in s . pombe )  are assembled over a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of histone h3 to chromatin is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of the histone variant h2a .z found associated with chromatin in centromeric regions is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of h3 - k9 specific histone methyltransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total amount of protein measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total amount of protein measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total amount of rna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition ,  instead of the normal g1 phase ,  and after the cell undergoes one cell division instead of the normal two ,  when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of one or more meiotic cell cycle phases is shorter than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through s phase of the meiotic cell cycle  ( preceding meiosis i )  is shorter than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex is increased during mitotic telophase .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which methylation of lysine at position 37 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which methylation of lysine at position 37 of histone h3 is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which methylation of lysine at position 37 of histone h3 is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which methylation of lysine at position 37 of histone h3 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of dna replication is decreased in telomeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of dna replication is decreased in ribosomal dna repeats .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an rna is observed in a particular location where it is not normally found .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an rna that is not normally found in the cytoplasm is observed there .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to bleomycin .
a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to streptonigrin .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which any mitotic dna damage checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of protein exchange in the actomyosin contractile ring is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is decreased during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which methylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which histone methylation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone h2a phosphorylation occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the cell cortex at one or both cell tips is observed there .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex at an old growing cell tip is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of one or both cell tips is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce an inviable cell that undergoes two or more rounds of cell division ,  but then lyses during cytokinesis and dies .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell of normal morphology  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cleavage furrow ingression is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the center  ( as observed end - on )  of the site of cell division is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a phytoceramide measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nuclear envelope is imperforate  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which exocytosis occurs to a lower extent than normal at the cell division site .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic spindle is thicker than normal during mitotic metaphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured at or associated with the mitotic spindle is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured at or associated with the mitotic spindle is greater than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the sumoylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of iron ion measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of heme export from the vacuole to the cytoplasm is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of inositol hexakisphosphate kinase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which inositol hexakisphosphate kinase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of inositol hexakisphosphate kinase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of inositol hexakisphosphate kinase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is decreased during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of mitochondria to the cell tip is decreased during one or both meiotic nuclear divisions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actomyosin contractile ring contraction is increased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the thickness of the cell wall is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell separation after cytokinesis is abnormally asymmetric ,  i .e .
a septation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell forms a septum that is thinner than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell shrinks temporarily ,  but then recovers its original size .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to 4 - nitroquinoline n - oxide .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total amount of protein measured in a cell is lower than normal during s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which a mitotic cell size control checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which a mitotic cell size control checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which a mitotic cell size control checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which a mitotic cell size control checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which a mitotic cell size control checkpoint is normal  ( i .e .
a cell cycle phenotype in which the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle occurs at a smaller cell size than normal after the cell has been arrested in g1 phase due to nitrogen starvation .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell executes a cell cycle process normally  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell executes a cell cycle phase transition normally  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the metaphase / anaphase transition of mitosis begins at the normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is abolished during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of dna recombination at replication fork barriers is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of gene conversion at replication fork barriers is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the removal of a sliding clamp such as pcna from dna during replication is abnormal .
a regulation phenotype in which the frequency of dna recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates at or near replication fork barriers is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad51 accumulates at or near replication fork barriers is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ratio of the nuclear volume to the total cell volume is greater than normal  ( the ration observed in wild type is approximately 0 .076 - 0 .089 )  .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ratio of the nuclear volume to the total cell volume is lower than normal  ( the ration observed in wild type is approximately 0 .076 - 0 .089 )  .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or both nuclear membrane ( s )  form blebs .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to silver nanoparticles .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to butylated hydroxyanisole  ( bha )  .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to butylated hydroxytoluene  ( dibutylhydroxytoluene ;  bht )  .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of butylated hydroxyanisole than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of butylated hydroxytoluene  ( dibutylhydroxytoluene ;  bht )  than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more triglycerides measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a cell has normal volume ,  dimensions and shape ,  and is viable ,  when subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane surrounding the cell division site is abolished .
a molecular function phenotype in which lipid binding by a gene product does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more actin cables than normal during cytokinesis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction progresses in a radially asymmetric fashion .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actomyosin contractile ring is radially asymmetric .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to actin cortical patches for a longer time than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of lipid binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of an 3' - 5' rna helicase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount on one or more ribosomal proteins measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of lipid droplet formation is increased .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  is swollen ,  is elongated ,  and contains more than one septum .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in the cytoplasm is observed there when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell that is subject to glucose starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of s - methyl - l - ergothioneine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of myo - inositol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of n ( alpha )  , n ( alpha )  - dimethyl - l - histidines measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of n2 - acetyl - l - lysine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - asparagine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - isoleucine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of deferrichrome measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - histidinol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 2 - oxoglutarate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of succinate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of adenosine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of inosine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of udp - n - acetylglucosamine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 1 - methyladenosine measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of coenzyme a measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of hmg - coa measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of acetyl - coa measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of aicar measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of saicar measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of cytidine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of bisphosphoglyceric acid measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of biotin measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of s - adenosyl - l - cysteine measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of l - glutamate methyl ester measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more triglycerides measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during the meiotic cell cycle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the ubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of coenzyme q10 measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of coenzyme q10 measured in the cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of glc3man9glcnac measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the levels and proportions of polysaccharides in the cell wall are normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the cell wall are normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of rna transcription rna polymerase iii from a dna template is abnormal .
a phenotype in which a transcript synthesized on a dna template by rna polymerase iii is longer than normal due to transcription beyond the normal termination site .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a larger region near the silent mating - type cassette than normal ,  such that it extends beyond the irl boundary element .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled up to ,  but not beyond ,  the irl boundary element in the silent mating - type cassette ,  as in wild type .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in silent mating - type cassettes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal at transposable elements .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a larger portion of the chromosome than normal in regions containing protein - coding genes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a normal  ( i .e .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at the right outer repeat region  ( otr1r )  of the centromere is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat regions is decreased at the right outer repeat region  ( otr1r )  of the centromere .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat regions is increased at the left outer repeat region  ( otr1l )  of the centromere .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at centromere inner repeat regions is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of antisense rna measured in a cell normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a lower extent than normal at the silent mating - type cassette .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a lower extent than normal at transposable elements .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally dynamically localized to a specific place in the cell shows a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which histone exchange occurs to a lower extent than normal in regions containing protein coding genes .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of dna recombination downstream of replication fork barriers is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency of dna recombination downstream of replication fork barriers is increased .
a regulation phenotype in which the frequency of dna recombination is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of transcription by rna polymerase iii is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing mediated by small rna is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of secondary sirna measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at non - coding rna genes is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 28s ribosomal rna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 5s ribosomal rna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 5 .8s ribosomal rna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the 3' ends of trna genes is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the 3' ends of rrna genes in ribosomal dna repeat regions is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trna pseudouridylation ,  the intramolecular conversion of uridine to pseudouridine in a trna molecule ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form 2' - o - methylguanosine is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form 7 - methylguanosine is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form n2 - methylguanosine is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a cytosine residue in a trna molecule to form 2' - o - methylcytidine does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form 2' - o - methylguanosine does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form 1 - methylguanosine occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form 7 - methylguanosine occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form n2 - methylguanosine occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional modification of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form wybutosine occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the septin ring at the medial cortex is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to polysomes is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the levels and proportions of monosaccharides in the cell wall are normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of one or both cell tips  does not occur during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the glycosylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of fluconazole than normal .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of phenylglyoxal than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to phenylglyoxal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitochondrion is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitochondrion is decreased ,  and the protein is instead visible in one or a few foci or dots in the cytoplasm .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alkaline phosphatase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alkaline phosphatase activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alkaline phosphatase activity is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which alkaline phosphatase activity is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alkaline phosphatase activity is decreased during a cellular stress response to zinc ions .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alkaline phosphatase activity is decreased during a cellular response to zinc ion starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which alkaline phosphatase activity is absent during a cellular response to zinc ion starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alkaline phosphatase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of alkaline phosphatase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular stress response to zinc ions is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular stress response to zinc ions is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell differs from normal during a cellular stress response to zinc ions .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular stress response to zinc ions is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to zinc ion starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to zinc ion starvation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which  endosome organization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of substances via vesicles from the golgi to other parts of the cell is abnormal . .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of substances via vesicles from recycling endosomes to the golgi to other parts of the cell is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the vacuole is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to late endosomes is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin filament polymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin monomers associate to form a new branch on the side of an existing actin filament ,  mediated by the arp2 / 3 protein complex ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of atg1 / ulk1 kinase complex assembly is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any 23s rrna precursor measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any 22s rrna precursor measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 20s rrna precursor measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the assembly of the 90s preribosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular stress response to zinc ions is lower than normal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the probability that a dna replication will initiate at a particular replication origin located in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions is higher than in wild type .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which assembly of the ribosomal small subunit is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which binding to a nuclear localization sequence  ( nls )  in a protein by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of mitotic spindle elongation is increased during anaphase 	a .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of progression through anaphase b of mitosis is shorter than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear envelope is decreased .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ubiquitination of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the substrate specificity of a gene product that executes histone h3 - k9 specific methyltransferase activity is altered .
a molecular function phenotype in which binding to ubiquitin by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell executes a meiotic cell cycle process normally  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the initial release of duplicated spindle pole bodies that occurs as part of the second meiotic nuclear division ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the initial release of duplicated spindle pole bodies that begins with the nucleation of microtubules from each spb within the nucleus ,  and occurs as part of the first meiotic nuclear division ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the initial release of duplicated spindle pole bodies that begins with the nucleation of microtubules from each spb within the nucleus ,  and normally occurs as part of the first meiotic nuclear division ,  does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which the lengthening of the distance between poles of the meiotic spindle that occurs as part of the second meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a short meiotic spindle assembles ,  and may begin elongation ,  but does not elongate normally or completely ,  and eventually collapses .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to sulfur starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to sulfur starvation is higher than normal .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is elongated when the cell is subject to sulfur starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which ascospore formation does not occur when cells are subject to sulfur starvation .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells the population are subject to sulfur starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested normally at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition when the cell is subject to sulfur starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of transcription as a consequence of the presence of one or more specific nutrient ( s )  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which negative regulation of transcription by zinc occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding by a gene product is increased during a cellular response to zinc ions ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas transcribed from genes encoding ribosomal proteins measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cells fuse for a longer time than normal during mating .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the actin fusion focus is increased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the actin fusion focus is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which actin fusion focus assembly takes place in one or more abnormal locations .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the lengthening of the distance between poles of the meiotic spindle that occurs as part of the first meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division is arrested in prophase i under conditions where arrest does not normally occur ,  and with telomeres clustered at the spindle pole body .
a spindle phenotype in which the meiotic spindle is not straight ,  but instead forms an angle where microtubules from opposite poles interdigitate ,  during meiosis i .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more than one meiotic spindle per nucleus during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which a short meiotic spindle assembles during meiosis i ,  and may begin elongation ,  but does not elongate normally or completely ,  and eventually collapses .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome segregation is abnormal along the chromosome arms .
a cell phenotype in which sites at which the protein rad52 accumulates remain present for a longer time than normal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of all or part of the mitotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule cytoskeleton organization is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which centromere clustering takes place during meiotic prophase i ,  and remains incomplete .
a cellular process phenotype in which centromere clustering is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which cells contain fewer microtubule bundles associated with the spindle pole body than normal during meiosis i .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which depolymerization  ( i .e .
a phenotype that affects the organization of the microtubule cytoskeleton during all or part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  and morphology of microtubule bundles are normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead ,  during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein in the actomyosin contractile ring is lower than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to leucine starvation is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to leucine starvation is higher than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable when cells the population are subject to starvation for one or more amino acids .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of cell cycle arrest in response to leucine starvation does not occur ;  arrest normally occurs in g1 phase .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of assembly of one or more respiratory chain complexes is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed during mitotic prophase  ( in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle )  in which the mitotic spindle has two poles ,  but spindle microtubules  ( mts )  are not aligned into parallel or anti - parallel bundles .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle midzone during prophase is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic sister chromatid separation begins when the mitotic spindle is not present .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule bundle formation that takes place as part of mitotic spindle assembly ,  and which normally results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin contractile ring maintenance is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which movement of chromosomes from the center of the mitotic spindle towards the spindle poles is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of homoserine o - acetyltransferase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which homoserine o - acetyltransferase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plus ends end of microtubules is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of a protein to one or more microtubules occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septation initiation network signaling is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which the number of apurinic and ayprimidinic  ( collectively ,  ap )  sites detected in dna is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a cell contains one nucleus and has an abnormally low volume .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell has an abnormally low volume and contains more than one nucleus .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  has an abnormally low volume ,  and contains more than one septum .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is abolished during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a phenotype in which a spore germinates to produce a cell that has a greater length ,  diameter ,  volume ,  and length:diameter ratio than normal ,  and undergoes two or more rounds of cell division and then dies .
a molecular function phenotype in which an endodeoxyribonuclease activity is absent .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable after exposure to ionizing radiation .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' - deoxyribonuclease  ( pyrimidine dimer )  activity is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of deoxyribonuclease  ( pyrimidine dimer )  activity is increased during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 5' deoxyribonuclease  ( pyrimidine dimer )  activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead ,  during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which mei2 nuclear dot formation is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to transplatin .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of microtubule bundle formation ,  which normally results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules ,  is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells form actin cables that are longer than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to camphor .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the breakdown of polyphosphate is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the biosynthesis of polyphosphate is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint is activated at an abnormal location .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortical nodes is increased in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of histone binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of histone h3 binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of histone h4 binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the formation of nucleosomes on newly replicated dna is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show decreased sensitivity to oxidative stress .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of karyogamy involved in conjugation with cellular fusion is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule - based movement is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of microtubule sliding ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex does not occur during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex does not occur during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the attachment of microtubules to the cell cortex does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype in which microtubule bundle formation that takes place as part of mitotic spindle assembly ,  and which normally results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype an ascus contains four nuclei ,  as in wild type .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  and structure of the cell cortex are normal during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell population phenotype in which the proportion of cells in the population remains viable after entering stationary phase does not change in the presence of micafungin .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of mitotic checkpoint complex binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is abnormal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane surrounding the cell division site is abolished during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane surrounding the cell division site is abolished during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex of a cell is abolished during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex of a cell is abolished during mitosis .
a cell phenotype in which a protein is detected abnormally distributed throughout the cell cortex during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype in which a protein is detected abnormally distributed throughout the cell cortex during mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the site of cell division is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cytoplasmic microtubule depolymerization ,  i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is increased during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is increased during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is abnormally arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is higher than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any heme measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sampangine .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is increased along the length of the chromosome arms during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which sites at which the protein rad52 accumulates remain present for longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rapid ,  back - and - forth movement of the mitotic spindle pole body  ( spb )  ,  and associated chromosome movement ,  do not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria are smaller than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains more mitochondria than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria are larger than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial fission ,  the division of a mitochondrion into two or more separate compartments ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial fission ,  the division of a mitochondrion into two or more separate compartments ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between centromeres of sister chromatids is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mrna splicing via the spliceosome of introns that have one or more deviations from optimal cis - splicing sequences is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actin cortical patches cluster together more than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of actin cortical patch localization to the site of cell division is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at an rdna spacer replication fork barrier by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at an rdna spacer replication fork barrier by a gene product is decreased ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding at an rdna spacer replication fork barrier by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at sites within the eukaryotic rdna repeat spacer is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at abnormal replication fork arrest at sites within the eukaryotic rdna repeat spacer does not occur .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize aspartate ,  and therefore requires aspartate in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which microtubule bundle length is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which cohesion between sister chromatids is decreased along the length of the chromosome arms during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total volume of all mitochondria  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring assembly begins earlier than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at heterochromatin islands is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in one or more heterochromatin islands occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at one or more heterochromatin islands is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at one or more lncrna genes is abolished .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at promoters that contain mcb sites is abolished  during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 18 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 18 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in regions containing protein - coding genes occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the establishment of chromatin silencing at centromere outer repeat regions is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin assembly is decreased in centromere outer repeat regions .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing mediated by small rna is normal  ( i .e .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing at one or more heterochromatin islands is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna - dna hybrid molecules is greater than normal in centromeric regions .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 3' - deoxyribose phosphate lyase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which 3' - deoxyribose phosphate lyase activity is absent .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single cell grows in the form of a spindle ,  i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a single cell is viable ,  and grows in the form of a spindle .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which regulation of the initiation of mitotic dna replication from early - firing origins is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of nuclear dna replication begins later than normal at origins that normally fire early .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the central core of the centromeric region of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at early replication origins  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at early replication origins  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the frequency at which two double - strand breaks  ( dsbs )  form close to each other during meiosis i is increased	 .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of two crossovers within a given interval during meiosis i is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the old growing cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cell polarity phenotype in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  differs between the two daughter cells formed as a result of cell division .
a cell polarity phenotype in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  is abnormal in both of the daughter cells formed as a result of the division of a mother cell in which neto did not occur ,  such that neto is abolished in the daughter cell that inherits the parent cell's old end ,  and begins earlier than normal in the daughter cell that inherits parent cell's new end .
a cell polarity phenotype in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  is abolished in both of the daughter cells formed as a result of the division of a mother cell in which neto did not occur .
a cell polarity phenotype in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is decreased during metaphase of mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the meiotic spindle pole bodies are normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is abolished during anaphase of the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which cell cycle regulation mediated by the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint does not occur during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the duration of cell cycle arrest or delay due to regulation by the mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint is shorter than in wild type during a cellular response to ionizing radiation .
a cell phenotype in which the level of x - shaped dna replication intermediates is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of lipid binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of lipid binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of binding to a lipid in a membrane by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which binding to a lipid in a membrane by a gene product does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork processing is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of replication fork processing is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is begins earlier than normal during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body begins later than normal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic spindle pole body duplication is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of meiotic spindle pole body duplication is increased .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process is abnormal in the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere tethering at the nuclear periphery is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount ,  distribution ,  morphology ,  or other physical characteristic of the eisosome is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer eisosomes than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the eisosome filament is longer than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer ,  and longer ,  eisosome filaments than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  colocalizes with eisosomes to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  colocalizes with eisosomes to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cortical endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  remodeling occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which telomere clustering is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear chromatin organization is abnormal ,  such regions containing transposons  ( tf2 elements )  are tethered to the centromere to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear chromatin organization is abnormal ,  such regions containing transposons  ( tf2 elements )  are tethered to the centromere to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nucleoplasm is decreased during a cellular response to a dna damage stimulus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cortical endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  remodeling occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitochondrion inheritance is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitochondrion inheritance is abnormal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitochondrion inheritance is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to euchromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to euchromatin is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to nuclear exosome foci is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during meiosis measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable and branched ,  and has a larger volume than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the lateral cell cortex is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the non - growing cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally dynamically localized to one or both cell tips shows an abnormal temporal pattern of localization .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the late endosome membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the galactosylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein galactosylation is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of udp - glucose 4 - epimerase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of udp - glucose 4 - epimerase activity is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of udp - galactose measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of udp - galactose measured in the cytosol is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which a spherical vegetative cell lyses ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype in which a vegetative cell is pear - shaped ,  and in which actin is localized only to the rounded end of the cell .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to cenp - a containing chromatin is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the biosynthesis of udp - galactose does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more sre elements occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein aggregate center formation is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein aggregate center formation is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein aggregate center formation does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein aggregate center formation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is too low to detect when the cell is subject to heat shock .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in metaphase under conditions where arrest does not normally occur ,  and in which chromosomes remain condensed .
a spindle phenotype in which the mitotic spindle is shorter than normal during anaphase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 5 of histone h4 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 12 of histone h4 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 5 of histone h4 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 8 of histone h4 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 12 of histone h4 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 in centromere outer repeat regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 5 of histone h4 at the central core of the centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 8 of histone h4 at the central core of the centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 12 of histone h4 at the central core of the centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which acetylation of lysine at position 8 of histone h4 in heterochromatin at subtelomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the amount of any macromolecular complex present in a cell differs from wild type .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of translation in the cytoplasm is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which stress granule assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which stress granule assembly occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule assembly occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule assembly occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule assembly occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to heat .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which stress granule assembly is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of histone h4 measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which an interaction between a protein and a transfer rna  ( trna )  is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondrial trna 3' - end processing is decreased .
a cell phenotype which the total amount of dna in a cell is lower than normal when the cell is in g0 phase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dna damage measured at transfer rna genes in a cell is greater than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to formaldehyde .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an increase in the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins that would normally occur when cells are subjected to a stress in the presence of a specific small molecule does not occur under the same circumstances .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing does not occur at centromere outer repeat regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing does not occur at centromere inner repeat regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing does not occur at the silent mating - type cassettes .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 in centromeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which of rnas transcribed from dg repeats in the centromere outer repeat region are present at higher levels than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein localizes to a larger portion of the chromosome than normal in the euchromatic regions .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 4 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of one or more triglycerides measured in lipid droplets is lower than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of lipid droplet formation does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at the central core of the centromeric regions is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of any rna transcribed from euchromatic regions measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell population growth phenotype in which vegetative cells grow normally  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 36 of histone h3 is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is decreased  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is decreased  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is decreased  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which homologous chromosome pairing during meiosis  ( synapsis )  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the cell contains more smp foci than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which smp focus formation is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the cell does not contain a detectable smp focus .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to heavy water  ( d2o )  .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of heavy water  ( d2o )  than normal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of an atpase activity occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which positive regulation of an atpase activity does not occur .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding that bridges two double - stranded dna regions does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyruvate kinase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of pyruvate kinase activity is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphoenolpyruvate measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of 2 , 3 - bisphosphoglyceric acid measured in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of fructose 1 , 6 - bisphosphate measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell's energy charge higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell's redox status differs from normal ,  as measured by the ratios of reduced to oxidized forms of one or more metabolites  ( e .g .
a cell population phenotype in which a cell population in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle grows at a faster rate than normal in a medium containing fructose as the carbon source .
a cell population phenotype in which a cell population in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle grows at a faster rate than normal in a medium containing sucrose as the carbon source .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of chlorpromazine than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of histones in silent mating - type cassettes is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of histones in centromeric regions is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the methylation of histones in telomeric regions is abnormal .
a phenotype in which a region of the genome that is normally stably assembled and maintained as heterochromatin over successive generations entirely loses heterochromatic structure .
a  cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found at the medial cortex is observed there .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which rapid ,  back - and - forth movement of the mitotic spindle pole body  ( spb )  ,  and associated chromosome movement ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a new growth zone forms along the lateral portion of the cell  ( often in the middle )  before septation ,  such that a single cell grows in the form of the letter t .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is longer than normal ,  and a new growth zone forms along the lateral portion of the cell  ( often in the middle )  before septation ,  such that a single cell grows in the form of the letter t .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the protein ssb1 accumulates in a large focus ,  or occasionally two foci ,  in the nucleus .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at a transcription regulatory region by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome does not occur during mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint signaling .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin along the length of genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs for a longer time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which ubiquitination of lysine at position 119 of histone h2b occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the switch from the monopolar to bipolar mode of cell growth  ( new end take - off ;  neto )  does not occur ,  and the cell grows only from the new end .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the mitotic spindle is assembled in an incorrect orientation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which spindle pole body  ( spb )  - led chromosome movement in mitotic interphase takes place at an abnormal angle relative to the long axis of the cell .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which spindle pole body  ( spb )  - led chromosome movement in mitotic interphase takes place at an angle that varies more than normal .
a viability phenotype in which an aneuploid spore is unable to survive under conditions in which wild type spores survive .
a cell phenotype in which that are aneuploid due to the presence of an extra copy of chromosome 3 lose the extra chromosome ,  producing haploid daughter cells ,  at a higher frequency than in otherwise wild - type cells .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell has a septum with both ends at the cell tip ( s )  .
a phenotype in which the structure of one or more rna molecules differs from normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of heme into the cell is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of heme into the cell occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of heme into the cell is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which signaling via a map kinase cascade that is activated in response to stress is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome does not occur during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is abnormal during anaphase of mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which any process of protein complex organization is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the anaphase - promoting complex  ( apc )  is present for longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of protein degradation is decreased during anaphase of mitosis .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the medial cortex of a cell is abnormal ,  and some of the protein is detected distributed throughout the cell cortex .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of mature long non - coding rna  ( lncrna )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during phosphate starvation measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is abnormal at sites encoding polyadenylation signals .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which alternative polyadenylation of mrna is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more residues within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of residues within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii is abnormal ,  resulting in an abnormal distribution of rna polymerase ii molecules with different c - terminal domain residue phosphorylation patterns .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the orientation of the mitotic spindle is normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the telomere is abnormal during g0 phase .
a physical cellular phenotype in which a subtelomeric region  ( ste1 )  adjacent to telomeric repeats is duplicated by homologous recombination .
a cellular process phenotype in which telomere maintenance ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which telomere maintenance ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which telomere clustering is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which telomere localization ,  a process in which a telomere is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which telomere tethering at the nuclear periphery is decreased during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal in telomeric regions .
a cellular process phenotype in which transcription occurs to a greater extent than normal in telomeric regions during g0 phase .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleation of spindle microtubules from the spindle pole body  ( spb )  does not occur .
a cell phenotype in which isochromosome formation occurs less frequently than in wild type cells .
a cell phenotype in which chromosomal truncations occur more frequently than in wild type cells .
a dna recombination phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which gene conversion is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the insertion of the newly assembled spindle pole body into the nuclear envelope does not occur .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the insertion of the old spindle pole body  ( spb )  into the nuclear envelope is abnormal ,  and the spb enters the nucleus .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the nucleation of microtubules from the old mitotic spindle pole body begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein degradation does not occur during a cellular response to dna damage .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dgtp measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mutations occur at a higher or lower rate than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transversion mutations occur at a lower frequency than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of datp measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells do not change the length at which they divide to the same extent as normal upon shifting from a good nitrogen source to a poor nitrogen source .
a cell phenotype in which a cell is inviable ,  elongated ,  i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is swollen ,  is elongated ,  and contains more than one septum .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint is activated continuously .
a cell cycle checkpoint phenotype in which activation of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint begins earlier than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of eisosome is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the directed movement of sterols within cells is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to endoplasmic reticulum - plasma membrane contact sites is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endoplasmic reticulum membrane is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endoplasmic reticulum is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytosol instead .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which macroautophagy is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum occurs to a lower extent than normal during a cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum does not occur during a cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
a cellular process phenotype in which autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endoplasmic reticulum is abolished ,  and some of the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein is localized to one or both cell tip ( s )  ,  but remains there for a shorter time than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of the cell tip is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the plus ends end of microtubules is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of a protein measured in the arp2 / 3 protein complex is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of atp binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of double - strand break repair via single - strand annealing is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of 3' overhang single - stranded dna endodeoxyribonuclease activity is increased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more nuclear envelope than normal during interphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear pore localization to the portion of the nuclear envelope enclosing the mitotic nuclear bridge does not occur .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the portion of the nuclear envelope enclosing the mitotic nuclear bridge is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of the portion of the nuclear envelope enclosing the midzone of the mitotic nuclear bridge is abnormal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to histidine .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of filamentous actin measured the cell is higher than normal when the cell is in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the termination of rna transcription from a dna template is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna measured in a cell during a cellular response to hypoxia is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein localizes to chromatin over a different spatial extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype that affects histone modification during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of heterochromatin organization is abnormal during g0 phase .
a cell population phenotype in which cells in a population do not divide at a uniform size .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body begins later than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the duration of an otherwise normal occurrence of cell cycle arrest in mitotic g1 phase is shorter than normal .
a phenotype in which the stable inheritance of heterochromatic structure is abnormal in regions of the genome where heterochromatin is normally maintained over successive generations .
a phenotype in which a region of the genome that is normally stably assembled and maintained as heterochromatin over successive generations retains heterochromatic structure for fewer generations than normal .
a phenotype in which the assembly and stable inheritance of heterochromatic structure is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which heterochromatin is assembled over a smaller portion of the subtelomeric region of the chromosome than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which an increase in the transcription of one or more target genes that would normally occur when cells are subjected to a stress in the presence of a specific small molecule occurs to a lower extent than normal under the same circumstances .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is decreased during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which meiotic spindle pole body duplication is abnormal during the first meiotic nuclear division .
a microtubule cytoskeleton organization phenotype in which nucleation of microtubules from one or more microtubule organizing centers  ( mtocs )  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which nucleation of spindle microtubules from the new spindle pole body does not occur during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the spindle forms with microtubules emanating from only one pole during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype in which insertion of the newly formed spindle pole body into the nuclear envelope does not occur during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the golgi apparatus is decreased ,  and the protein is present in the vacuole instead .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the golgi apparatus is decreased ,  and the protein is present in the cytosol instead .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a mannosyltransferase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which the structure of an o - linked glycan moiety of a nascent or mature glycoprotein is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in the cell wall differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of alpha - d - glucan measured in the spore wall is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of beta - d - glucan measured in the spore wall is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the mei2 nuclear dot is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the nuclear exosome focus at the sme2 locus does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which fewer ,  larger nuclear exosome foci are present than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at one or more cohesin - associated regions  ( cars )  in a mutant is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of chromatin binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  at one or more cohesin - associated regions  ( cars )  in a mutant is increased .
a cellular process phenotype in which macroautophagy does not occur when the cell is subject to sulfur starvation .
a cellular process phenotype in which assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the horsetail - astral microtubule array is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the meiotic spindle pole body is decreased during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a histone demethylase activity is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which h3 - k9 specific histone demethylase activity is absent .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at one or more specific promoter elements is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin at one or more specific promoter elements is increased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in one or more promoter regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at subtelomeric regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 in silent mating - type cassettes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which progression through the mitotic cell cycle is abnormally arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition in the absence of the mitotic dna replication checkpoint .
a cellular process phenotype in which a cell undergoes normal  ( i .e .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure chromosome iii is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of ribosomal dna  ( rdna )  repeats present in the rdna arrays on chromosome iii is significantly greater than the range in wild type cells .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to manumycin a .
a cell phenotype in which rna stability is decreased during a cellular response to oxidative stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna occupies a smaller portion of the total nuclear volume than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin moves within the nucleus to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of dna damage occurring as a side effect of transcription in a cell is greater than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dna occupies a normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of higher concentrations of tacrolimus and magnesium chloride than normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to a combination of tacrolimus and magnesium chloride .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of protein measured in a cell during a cellular response to oxidative stress is lower than normal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the import of protein into the nucleus begins later than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of ribosome binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to salt stress .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell tip is increased when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of binding to a lipid in a membrane by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at heterochromatin islands is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 does not occur at heterochromatin islands near genes that are normally expressed during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is decreased at heterochromatin islands near genes that are normally expressed during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which arrested replication forks do not colocalize with nuclear pore complexes  ( npcs )  longer than actively replicating forks .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which arrested replication forks colocalize normally  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the threonine residue at position 4 the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the serine residue at position 2 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to regions of chromatin containing genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is normal  ( i .e .
the distribution of mitochondria ,  including the mitochondrial genome ,  into daughter cells after mitosis or meiosis ,  mediated by interactions between mitochondria and the cytoskeleton .
the maintenance of the structure and integrity of the mitochondrial genome ;  includes replication and segregation of the mitochondrial chromosome .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within a single - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid molecule by creating internal breaks .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination ,  a dna metabolic process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination during mitosis .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the disaccharide maltose  ( 4 - o - alpha - d - glucopyranosyl - d - glucopyranose )  ,  an intermediate in the catabolism of glycogen and starch .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of constituent rnas and proteins to form the large ribosomal subunit .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of constituent rnas and proteins to form the small ribosomal subunit .
catalysis of the transfer of a mannosyl group to an acceptor molecule ,  typically another carbohydrate or a lipid .
the directed movement of transition metal ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the formation of a double membrane - bounded structure ,  the autophagosome ,  that occurs when a specialized membrane sac ,  called the isolation membrane ,  starts to enclose a portion of the cytoplasm .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with transfer rna .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle .
the release of duplicated mitotic spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  that begins with the nucleation of microtubules from each spb within the nucleus ,  leading to v - shaped spindle microtubules .
a cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression by monitoring the integrity of specific cell cycle events .
a cell cycle checkpoint that prevents the initiation of nuclear division until dna replication is complete ,  thereby ensuring that progeny inherit a full complement of the genome .
a cell cycle checkpoint that regulates progression through the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation by mitosis and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in g1 commits to s phase .
any process that regulates transcription such that the target genes are involved in the transition between g1 and s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation by mitosis .
the mitotic cell cycle transition by which a cell in g2 commits to m phase .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of m phase of mitosis and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase during which chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle the as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase during which the kinetochore microtubules shorten as chromosomes move toward the spindle poles as part of mitosis .
the cell cycle phase during which the polar microtubules elongate and the two poles of the spindle move farther apart as part of mitosis .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  homocysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
the directed movement of amino acids containing sulfur  ( cystine ,  methionine and their derivatives )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the reaction: succinate  +  acceptor = fumarate  +  reduced acceptor .
any process that regulates transcription such that the target genes are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
the reversible ,  non - sexual aggregation of single - celled organisms in suspension to form aggregates of many cells known as flocs .
catalysis of movement along a microfilament ,  coupled to the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate  ( usually atp )  .
assembly of an actin cortical patch ,  a discrete actin - containing structure found at the plasma membrane of fungal cells .
a protein complex that includes a ubiquitin - protein ligase and enables ubiquitin protein ligase activity .
a ubiquitin ligase complex found in the nucleus .
a ubiquitin ligase complex found in the cytoplasm .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an rrna molecule to produce an rrna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
an intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least a mapk ,  a mapkk and a map3k .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleotide ,  any compound consisting of a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose or deoxyribose .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 3' terminus of an rna molecule .
a ribonuclease complex that has 3 - prime to 5 - prime processive and distributive hydrolytic exoribonuclease activity and endoribonuclease activity ,  producing 5 - prime - phosphomonoesters .
a ribonuclease complex that has 3 - prime to 5 - prime processive hydrolytic exoribonuclease activity producing 5 - prime - phosphomonoesters .
a ribonuclease complex that has 3 - prime to 5 - prime exoribonuclease activity and possibly endoribonuclease activity ,  producing 5 - prime - phosphomonoesters .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with dna sequences encoding ribosomal rna .
the nonsense - mediated decay pathway for nuclear - transcribed mrnas degrades mrnas in which an amino - acid codon has changed to a nonsense codon ;  this prevents the translation of such mrnas into truncated ,  and potentially harmful ,  proteins .
a mapk cascade that contributes to cell wall organization or biogenesis .
addition of multiple ubiquitin groups to a protein ,  forming a ubiquitin chain .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
catalysis of the reaction: 4 - n -  ( n - acetyl - d - glucosaminyl )  - protein  +  h2o = n - acetyl - beta - d - glucosaminylamine  +  peptide l - aspartate .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a chromosome that encodes the nuclear genome and is found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell during the cell cycle phases when the nucleus is intact .
a chromosome found in the cytoplasm .
any of the spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
the cell cycle phase in higher eukaryotes which follows mitotic prophase and during which the nuclear envelope is disrupted and breaks into membrane vesicles ,  and the spindle microtubules enter the nuclear region .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a spliceosomal complex ,  a ribonucleoprotein apparatus that catalyzes nuclear mrna splicing via transesterification reactions .
a chromosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell .
the division of a mitochondrion within a cell to form two or more separate mitochondrial compartments .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
a cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after mitosis ,  resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells .
a major pathway of degradation of nuclear - transcribed mrnas that proceeds through a series of ordered steps that includes poly ( a )  tail shortening and that can regulate mrna stability .
shortening of the poly ( a )  tail of a nuclear - transcribed mrna from full length to an oligo ( a )  length .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of the transcript body of a nuclear - transcribed mrna that occurs when the ends are not protected by the 5' - cap or the 3' - poly ( a )  tail .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 fe2 +   +  nad +  = 2 fe3 +   +  nadh  +  h (  +  )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
cyclin - dependent protein kinases  ( cdks )  are enzyme complexes that contain a kinase catalytic subunit associated with a regulatory cyclin partner .
cyclin - dependent protein kinase  ( cdk )  complex found in the cytoplasm .
a ribosome contained within a subcellular membrane - bounded organelle .
the smaller of the two subunits of an organellar ribosome .
the larger of the two subunits of an organellar ribosome .
the resumption of the mitotic cell division cycle by cells that were in a quiescent or other non - dividing state .
the resumption of the mitotic cell division cycle by pheromone - arrested cells that have not mated .
a vacuole that functions primarily in the storage of materials ,  including nutrients ,  pigments ,  waste products ,  and small molecules .
a vacuole that is maintained at an acidic ph and which contains degradative enzymes ,  including a wide variety of acid hydrolases .
a vacuole that has both lytic and storage functions .
provision of the template used by reverse transcriptase to synthesize the g - rich strand of telomeric dna .
splicing of rna via a series of two transesterification reactions .
splicing of rna via a series of two transesterification reactions with a bulged adenosine residue from the intron branch point as the initiating nucleophile .
splicing of rna via recognition of the folded rna structure that brings the 5' and 3' splice sites into proximity and cleavage of the rna at both the 3' and 5' splice sites by an endonucleolytic mechanism ,  followed by ligation of the exons .
the joining together of exons from one or more primary transcripts of messenger rna  ( mrna )  and the excision of intron sequences ,  via a spliceosomal mechanism ,  so that mrna consisting only of the joined exons is produced .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 36 of histone h3 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 36 of histone h3 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 36 of histone h3 .
the autophagic process in which mitochondria are delivered to a type of vacuole and degraded in response to changing cellular conditions .
a protein complex that possesses dna - directed rna polymerase activity .
a multiprotein kinetochore subcomplex that binds to centromeric chromatin and forms part of the inner kinetochore .
exonucleolytic digestion of a pre - rrna molecule in the process to generate a mature rrna molecule .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor 5 .8s ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature 5 .8s rrna molecule .
any process involved in the maturation of an rrna molecule originally produced as part of a tricistronic rrna transcript that contained the small subunit  ( ssu )  rrna ,  the 5 .8s rrna ,  and the large subunit  ( lsu )  rrna ,  in that order ,  from 5' to 3' along the primary transcript .
exonucleolytic digestion of a pre - rrna molecule to generate the mature 3' - end of a 5 .8s rrna molecule derived from an originally tricistronic pre - rrna transcript that contained the small subunit  ( ssu )  rrna ,  the 5 .8s rrna ,  and the large subunit  ( lsu )  rrna in that order from 5' to 3' along the primary transcript .
any phosphodiester bond hydrolysis involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into a mature rrna molecule .
any process involved in the maturation of a precursor 5s ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  molecule into a mature 5s rrna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of a box h / aca snorna molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with nucleic acid via hydrogen bonds between the bases of a gene product molecule and the bases of a target dna molecule .
a large multisubunit complex which catalyzes protein degradation ,  found in eukaryotes ,  archaea and some bacteria .
catalysis of the removal of single bases present in mismatches by the cleavage the n - c1' glycosidic bond between the target damaged dna base and the deoxyribose sugar .
catalysis of the removal of purines present in mismatches ,  especially opposite oxidized purines ,  by cleaving the n - c1' glycosidic bond between the target damaged dna base and the deoxyribose sugar .
catalysis of the removal of oxidized bases by cleaving the n - c1' glycosidic bond between the target damaged dna base and the deoxyribose sugar .
the cell cycle process in which the 5' to 3' exonucleolytic resection of the dna at the site of the break to form a 3' single - strand dna overhang occurs .
a system for the identification and correction of base - base mismatches ,  small insertion - deletion loops ,  and regions of heterology that are present in duplex dna formed with strands from two recombining molecules .
the cleavage and rejoining of intermediates ,  such as holliday junctions ,  formed during meiotic recombination to produce two intact molecules in which genetic material has been exchanged .
the cell cycle process in which the broken 3' single - strand dna molecule that formed heteroduplex dna with its complement in an intact duplex dna is rejected .
the unwinding ,  or local denaturation ,  of the dna duplex to create a bubble around the site of the dna damage .
any process that contributes to the maintenance of proper telomeric length and structure by affecting and monitoring the activity of telomeric proteins ,  the length of telomeric dna and the replication and repair of the dna .
the error - free repair of a double - strand break in dna in which the broken dna molecule is repaired using homologous sequences .
a dna repair process that involves the exchange ,  reciprocal or nonreciprocal ,  of genetic material between the broken dna molecule and a homologous region of dna .
a dna repair process in which that does not require the exchange of genetic material between the broken dna molecule and a homologous region of dna .
the 5' to 3' exonucleolytic resection of the dna at the site of the break to form a 3' single - strand dna overhang .
synthesis of dna that proceeds from the broken 3' single - strand dna end and uses the homologous intact duplex as the template .
the rejection of the broken 3' single - strand dna molecule that formed heteroduplex dna with its complement in an intact duplex dna .
the creation of a single nucleus from multiple nuclei as a result of fusing the lipid bilayers that surround each nuclei .
during sexual reproduction ,  the creation of a single nucleus from multiple nuclei as a result of fusing the lipid bilayers that surround each nuclei .
the microtubule - based movement of nuclei towards one another as a prelude to karyogamy in organisms undergoing conjugation with cellular fusion .
the union or introduction of genetic information from compatible mating types that results in a genetically different individual .
a conjugation process that results in the union of cellular and genetic information from compatible mating types .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a signal transduction process resulting in the relay ,  amplification or dampening of a signal generated in response to pheromone exposure in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion .
the cell cycle regulatory process in which the mitotic cell cycle is halted during g1 as a result of a pheromone stimulus .
the aggregation or adhesion of compatible mating types via complementary cell - cell interactions during conjugation with cellular fusion of a unicellular organism .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs during sexual reproduction in order to facilitate direct contact between the compatible mating types in organisms that undergo conjugation cellular fusion .
in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion ,  the process resulting in desensitization following exposure to pheromone stimulus that act to down - regulate further stimulation or block initial conjugation responses .
during conjugation with cellular fusion ,  the process resulting in creating a single cell from complementary mating types .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs during sexual reproduction in order to facilitate direct contact between the compatible mating types .
the aggregation or adhesion of compatible mating types via complementary cell - cell interactions prior to the formation of irreversible cellular contacts during conjugation .
the region of a chromosome that includes the centromeric dna and associated proteins .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of dna and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of a condensed chromosome and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of a condensed nuclear chromosome and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
the region of a condensed chromosome that includes the centromere and associated proteins ,  including the kinetochore .
the end of a linear chromosome ,  required for the integrity and maintenance of the end .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome in the cytoplasm .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome in the nucleus .
a dispersed and relatively uncompacted form of chromatin .
a compact and highly condensed form of chromatin .
a highly compacted molecule of dna and associated proteins resulting in a cytologically distinct structure .
a highly compacted molecule of dna and associated proteins resulting in a cytologically distinct nuclear chromosome .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the replication origins of a chromosome .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the replication origins of a chromosome in the cytoplasm .
a heterotetrameric protein complex that associates with replication origins ,  where it is required for the initiation of dna replication ,  and with replication forks .
a multiprotein kinetochore subcomplex that binds to centromeric chromatin and forms part of the inner kinetochore of a chromosome in the nucleus .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving arginine ,  2 - amino - 5 -  ( carbamimidamido ) pentanoic acid .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1d - myo - inositol 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexakisphosphate = adp  +  diphospho - 1d - myo - inositol - pentakisphosphate .
a ubiquitin ligase complex found in the er .
the developmental process in which the size or shape of a cell is generated and organized .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 , 4 - dihydroxy - 2 - butanone - 4 - phosphate  +  5 - amino - 6 - ribitylamino - 2 , 4 ( 1h , 3h )  - pyrimidinedione = 6 , 7 - dimethyl - 8 - ribityllumazine  +  phosphate .
the division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its partitioning into two daughter cells .
the assembly and arrangement of an apparatus composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins that will function in cytokinesis .
the process of assembly of a ring composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins that will function in cytokinesis .
the process of an actomyosin ring getting smaller in diameter ,  in the context of cytokinesis that takes place as part of a cell cycle .
the assembly and arrangement of a septum that spans the plasma membrane interface between progeny cells following cytokinesis .
the process of physically separating the septal cell wall material by enzymatic digestion ,  that occurs after daughter cells are separated by cytokinesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of septins and associated proteins to form an organized structure resembling a ring at the cell cortex .
either of the ends of a spindle ,  where spindle microtubules are organized ;  usually contains a microtubule organizing center and accessory molecules ,  spindle microtubules and astral microtubules .
a microtubule organizing center formed by a band of gamma - tubulin that is recruited to a circumferential band of f - actin at the midpoint of a cell and which nucleates microtubules from the cell division site at the end of mitosis .
a focus in the cytoplasm where mrnas may become inactivated by decapping or some other mechanism .
a cell septum which forms as part of the division site and functions in the compartmentalization of a cell into two daughter cells at division .
a cell septum that forms following nuclear division .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nuclear - transcribed mrnas in eukaryotic cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mrna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome and occurring in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving catabolism in the mitochondrion of rna transcribed from the mitochondrial genome .
the conversion of a primary rna molecule transcribed from a mitochondrial genome into one or more mature rna molecules ;  occurs in the mitochondrion .
any process involved in forming the mature 5' end of an rna molecule transcribed from a mitochondrial genome ;  occurs in the mitochondrion .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an rna molecule transcribed from a mitochondrial genome ;  occurs in the mitochondrion .
any process involved in forming the mature 5' end of an rna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 5' end of an rrna molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific sequence of dna that is part of a regulatory region that controls transcription of that section of the dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific sequence of dna that is part of a regulatory region that controls the transcription of a gene or cistron by rna polymerase ii .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific upstream regulatory dna sequence  ( transcription factor recognition sequence or binding site )  located in cis relative to the transcription start site  ( i .e . ,  on the same strand of dna )  of a gene transcribed by rna polymerase ii .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific upstream regulatory dna sequence  ( transcription factor recognition sequence or binding site )  located in cis relative to the transcription start site  ( i .e . ,  on the same strand of dna )  of a gene transcribed by some rna polymerase .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleic acid region that regulates a nucleic acid - based process .
any process involved in the inhibition of progression from anaphase / telophase  ( high mitotic cdk activity )  to g1  ( low mitotic cdk activity )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the removal of histones ,  including histone dimers ,  from nucleosomes within chromatin .
relaying of environmental signals promoting filamentous growth .
posttranscriptional addition of a methyl group to either a nucleotide or 2' - o ribose in a polyribonucleotide .
the intramolecular conversion of uridine to pseudouridine within an rna molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process in which external signals modulate the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell growth ,  the irreversible increase in size of a cell over time .
a process that results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
binds to and increases the atp hydrolysis activity of an atpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin assembly or disassembly .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving long - chain fatty acids ,  a long - chain fatty acid is a fatty acid with a chain length between c13 and c22 .
a cellular homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within a cell or between a cell and its external environment .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleoside ,  a compound consisting of a purine or pyrimidine nitrogenous base linked either to ribose or deoxyribose .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a purine nucleoside ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked either to ribose or deoxyribose .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into an amino acid in a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - glutamate import into a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - glutamate import into a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - glutamate import into a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
the process in which the nucleotide at position 34 in the anticodon of a trna is post - transcriptionally modified .
the process in which a uridine in position 34 of a trna is post - transcriptionally modified .
the process in which a uridine residue at position 34 in the anticodon of a trna is post - transcriptionally thiolated at the c2 position .
an nuclear membrane protein complex having arachidonate 5 - lipoxygenase activity .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in the cytoplasm .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis in the cytoplasm .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in the cytoplasm .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
the process whereby a wobble base uridine residue in a trna is modified to 5 - methoxycarbonylmethyl - 2 - thiouridine .
the process whereby a guanine in trna is methylated at position n1 of the guanine .
the process whereby a guanine in a trna is methylated at the n2 position of guanine .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
the process in which an amino acid is transported across a membrane .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ;  this reaction drives the unwinding of the dna helix .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with chromatin ,  the network of fibers of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that make up the chromosomes of the eukaryotic nucleus during interphase .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with damaged dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the dna replication origin ,  a unique dna sequence of a replicon at which dna replication is initiated and proceeds bidirectionally or unidirectionally .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with double - stranded dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with satellite dna ,  the many tandem repeats  ( identical or related )  of a short basic repeating unit ;  many have a base composition or other property different from the genome average that allows them to be separated from the bulk  ( main band )  genomic dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with single - stranded dna .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the extension of the 3' end of a dna strand by one deoxynucleotide at a time .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an rna molecule or a portion thereof .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ;  this reaction drives the unwinding of an rna helix .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with single - stranded rna .
catalysis of the generation of force resulting either in movement along a microfilament or microtubule ,  or in torque resulting in membrane scission ,  coupled to the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with monomeric or multimeric forms of actin ,  including actin filaments .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with monomeric actin ,  also known as g - actin .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: udp - glucose  +   [  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - glucosyl ]  ( n )  = udp  +   [  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - glucosyl ]  ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: cdp - diacylglycerol  +  l - serine = cmp  +  o - sn - phosphatidyl - l - serine .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of dna from deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a dna template and a 3'hydroxyl group .
catalysis of the synthesis of a short rna primer on a dna template ,  providing a free 3' - oh that can be extended by dna - directed dna polymerases .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: dna with alkylated base  +  h2o = dna with abasic site  +  alkylated base .
catalysis of the transient cleavage and passage of individual dna strands or double helices through one another ,  resulting a topological transformation in double - stranded dna .
catalysis of a dna topological transformation by transiently cleaving one dna strand at a time to allow passage of another strand ;  changes the linking number by  + 1 per catalytic cycle .
catalysis of a dna topological transformation by transiently cleaving a pair of complementary dna strands to form a gate through which a second double - stranded dna segment is passed ,  after which the severed strands in the first dna segment are rejoined ;  product release is coupled to atp binding and hydrolysis ;  changes the linking number in multiples of 2 .
catalysis of the reaction: gtp  +  h2o = gdp  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: imp  +  h2o = 5 - formamido - 1 -  ( 5 - phosphoribosyl ) imidazole - 4 - carboxamide .
catalysis of the reaction: nadh  +  h +   +  acceptor = nad +   +  reduced acceptor .
catalysis of the reaction: nad ( p ) h  +  h +   +  a quinone = nad ( p )  +   +  a hydroquinone .
catalysis of the reaction: nadph  +  h +   +  n oxidized hemoprotein = nadp +   +  n reduced hemoprotein .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: udp - n - acetyl - d - glucosamine  +  dolichyl phosphate = ump  +  n - acetyl - d - glucosaminyl - diphosphodolichol .
catalysis of the reaction: udp - glucose = udp - galactose .
catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an acid ph optimum .
catalysis of the reaction: citrate = isocitrate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp = 3' , 5' - cyclic amp  +  diphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  amp = 2 adp .
catalysis of the reaction: an alcohol  +  nad +  = an aldehyde or ketone  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: an alcohol  +  nadp +  = an aldehyde or a ketone  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
catalysis of the reaction: l - 2 - aminoadipate 6 - semialdehyde  +  nadp +   +  h2o = l - 2 - aminoadipate  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: l - arginine  +  h2o = l - ornithine  +  urea .
catalysis of the reaction: p ( 1 )  , p ( 4 )  - bis ( 5' - nucleosyl ) tetraphosphate  +  h2o = ntp  +  nmp .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 hydrogen peroxide = o2  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: udp - n - acetyl - d - glucosamine  +   [  -  > 4 )  - n - acetyl - beta - d - glucosaminyl -  ( 1 -  ]  ( n )  = udp  +   [  -  > 4 )  - n - acetyl - beta - d - glucosaminyl -  ( 1 -  ]  ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  h2o  +  oxaloacetate = citrate  +  coa ,  where the acetyl group is added to the si - face of oxaloacetate ;  acetyl - coa thus provides the two carbon atoms of the pro - s carboxymethyl group .
catalysis of the reaction: o3 - acetyl - l - serine  +  hydrogen sulfide = l - cysteine  +  acetate .
catalysis of the reaction: 4 ferrocytochrome c  +  o2  +  4 h +  = 4 ferricytochrome c  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: acyl - coa  +  1 , 2 - diacylglycerol = coa  +  triacylglycerol .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of the terminal or penultimate peptide bond at the c - terminal end of a peptide or polypeptide .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - trans , 6 - trans - farnesyl diphosphate  +  isopentenyl diphosphate = diphosphate  +  geranylgeranyl diphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  n malonyl - coa  +  2n nadph  +  2n h +  = long - chain fatty acid  +  n + 1 coa  +  n co2  +  2n nadp +  .
catalysis of the reaction: l - glutamate  +  h2o  +  nad +  = 2 - oxoglutarate  +  nh3  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: l - glutamate  +  h2o  +  nad ( p )  +  = 2 - oxoglutarate  +  nh3  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: l - glutamate  +  h2o  +  nadp +  = 2 - oxoglutarate  +  nh3  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: l - glutamate  +  atp  +  nh ( 3 )  = l - glutamine  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: l - cysteine  +  l - glutamate  +  atp = l - gamma - glutamyl - l - cysteine  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 glutathione  +  nadp +  = glutathione disulfide  +  nadph  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: l - gamma - glutamyl - l - cysteine  +  atp  +  glycine = adp  +  glutathione  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: r - x  +  glutathione = h - x  +  r - s - glutathione .
catalysis of the reaction: gdp  +  h2o = gmp  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ,  to drive the unwinding of a dna or rna helix .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  histone = coa  +  acetyl - histone .
catalysis of the reaction: histone n6 - acetyl - l - lysine  +  h2o = histone l - lysine  +  acetate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - oxoglutarate  +  acetyl - coa  +  h ( 2 ) o = coa  +  h (  +  )   +  homocitrate .
catalysis of the reaction: l - homoserine  +  acetyl - coa = o - acetyl - l - homoserine  +  coa .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( r )  - mevalonate  +  coa  +  2 nadp (  +  )  =  ( s )  - 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaryl - coa  +  2 h (  +  )   +  2 nadph .
catalysis of the reaction: isocitrate  +  acceptor = 2 - oxoglutarate  +  co2  +  reduced acceptor .
catalysis of the reaction: isocitrate  +  nad +  = 2 - oxoglutarate  +  co2  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a long - chain fatty acid  +  coa = amp  +  diphosphate  +  an acyl - coa ;  a long - chain fatty acid is a fatty acid with a chain length between c13 and c22 .
catalysis of the oxidative decarboxylation of malate with the concomitant production of pyruvate .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( s )  - malate  +  nad +  = pyruvate  +  co2  +  nadh  +  h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate  +  nad ( p )  +  = 5 , 10 - methylenetetrahydrofolate  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end .
catalysis of the sequential hydrolytic removal of 5' - nucleotides from the 3' - hydroxy termini of 3' - hydroxy - terminated oligonucleotides .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 5' or 3' terminus of a dna molecule .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 5' or 3' terminus of an rna molecule .
catalysis of the exonucleolytic cleavage of poly ( a )  to 5' - amp .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds in chains of rna .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  nucleoside diphosphate = adp  +  nucleoside triphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: a dinucleotide  +  h2o = 2 mononucleotides .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any o - glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the reaction: alpha , alpha - trehalose  +  h2o = 2 d - glucose .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing alpha - d - galactose residues in alpha - d - galactosides ,  including galactose oligosaccharides ,  galactomannans and galactohydrolase .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked alpha - d - glucose residues with release of alpha - d - glucose .
catalysis of the reaction: a fructofuranosylated fructofuranosyl acceptor  +  h2o = a non fructofuranosylated fructofuranosyl acceptor  +  a beta - d - fructofuranoside .
catalysis of the reaction: carbamoyl phosphate  +  l - ornithine = phosphate  +  l - citrulline .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  peptide = coa  +  n - alpha - acetylpeptide .
catalysis of the reaction: donor  +  hydrogen peroxide = oxidized donor  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 glutathione  +  hydrogen peroxide = oxidized glutathione  +  2 h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 - phospho - d - glycerate  +  atp = 3 - phospho - d - glyceroyl phosphate  +  adp  +  h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = 3 - phospho - d - glycerate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = phosphoenolpyruvate  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: 5 - phospho - d - ribosylamine  +  atp  +  glycine = n ( 1 )  -  ( 5 - phospho - d - ribosyl ) glycinamide  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 -  ( formamido )  - n ( 1 )  -  ( 5 - phospho - d - ribosyl ) acetamidine  +  atp = 5 - amino - 1 -  ( 5 - phospho - d - ribosyl ) imidazole  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 10 - formyltetrahydrofolate  +  5' - phosphoribosyl - 5 - amino - 4 - imidazolecarboxamide = tetrahydrofolate  +  5' - phosphoribosyl - 5 - formamido - 4 - imidazolecarboxamide .
catalysis of the reaction: 5' - phosphopolynucleotide  +  h2o = polynucleotide  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the template - independent extension of the 3' -  end of an rna or dna strand by addition of one adenosine molecule at a time .
catalysis of the transfer of a prenyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the reaction: farnesyl diphosphate  +  protein - cysteine = s - farnesyl protein  +  diphosphate .
catalysis of the covalent addition of a geranylgeranyl  ( 20 - carbon isoprenoid )  group via thioether linkages to a cysteine residue at or near the c terminus of a protein .
catalysis of the reaction: geranylgeranyl diphosphate  +  protein - cysteine = s - geranylgeranyl - protein  +  diphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 geranylgeranyl diphosphate  +  protein - cysteine = 2 s - geranylgeranyl - protein  +  2 diphosphate .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein ,  usually according to the reaction: a protein  +  atp = a phosphoprotein  +  adp .
catalysis of the reactions: atp  +  protein serine = adp  +  protein serine phosphate ,  and atp  +  protein threonine = adp  +  protein threonine phosphate .
cnmp - dependent catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein .
camp - dependent catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  a protein = adp  +  a phosphoprotein .
catalysis of the reaction: a phosphoprotein  +  h2o = a protein  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: protein serine phosphate  +  h2o = protein serine  +  phosphate ,  and protein threonine phosphate  +  h2o = protein threonine  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: pyridoxamine 5' - phosphate  +  h2o  +  o2 = pyridoxal 5' - phosphate  +  nh3  +  hydrogen peroxide .
catalysis of the reaction: a 2 - oxo acid = an aldehyde  +  co2 .
catalysis of the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate .
catalysis of the reaction: = adp  +  h (  +  )   +  phosphoenolpyruvate = >  atp  +  pyruvate .
catalysis of the cleavage of n6 -  ( l - 1 , 3 - dicarboxypropyl )  - l - lysine to release an amino acid  ( lysine or glutamate )  ,  with the concomitant reduction of an electron acceptor .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 superoxide  +  2 h +  = o2  +  hydrogen peroxide .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  thiamine = amp  +  thiamine diphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: nadp (  +  )   +  thioredoxin = h (  +  )   +  nadph  +  thioredoxin disulfide .
catalysis of the transfer of ubiquitin from one protein to another via the reaction x - ub  +  y  -  -  >  y - ub  +  x ,  where both x - ub and y - ub are covalent linkages .
catalysis of the thiol - dependent hydrolysis of a peptide bond formed by the c - terminal glycine of ubiquitin and another protein .
catalysis of the cleavage of the n - c1' glycosidic bond between the damaged dna base and the deoxyribose sugar ,  releasing a free base and leaving an apyrimidinic  ( ap )  site .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a signal sequence ,  a specific peptide sequence found on protein precursors or mature proteins that dictates where the mature protein is localized .
stimulates the exchange of guanyl nucleotides associated with a gtpase .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
enables the facilitated diffusion of an ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  by passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the energy - independent passage of cations across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  ca2 +  ( cis )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  ca2 +  ( trans )  .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: monovalent cation ( out )   +  h +  ( in )  = monovalent cation ( in )   +  h +  ( out )  .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a steroid ,  any of a large group of substances that have in common a ring system based on 1 , 2 - cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with iron  ( fe )  ions .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with atp ,  adenosine 5' - triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with gtp ,  guanosine triphosphate .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the aldohexose galactose  ( galacto - hexose )  ,  a common constituent of many oligo -  and polysaccharides .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the d -  or l - enantiomer of glucose .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with mannose ,  a monosaccharide hexose ,  stereoisomeric with glucose ,  that occurs naturally only in polymerized forms called mannans .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with phospholipids ,  a class of lipids containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or diester .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal ,  most prokaryotic cells and some protozoan parasites ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
the specialized cell wall of the ascospore  ( spore )  ,  which is the product of meiotic division .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
the prospore membrane is a double - membraned structure that extends from the cytoplasmic face of the spindle pole bodies to encompass the spindle pole bodies and the four nuclear lobes that are formed during meiosis .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the nucleus and separating its contents from the rest of the cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space ,  a gap of width 20 - 40 nm  ( also called the perinuclear space )  .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the nuclear envelope .
any of the numerous similar discrete openings in the nuclear envelope of a eukaryotic cell ,  where the inner and outer nuclear membranes are joined .
that part of the nuclear content other than the chromosomes or the nucleolus .
a protein - dna complex assembled at eukaryotic dna replication origins during late mitosis and g1 ,  allowing the origin to become competent ,  or 'licensed' ,  for replication .
the y - shaped region of a replicating dna molecule ,  resulting from the separation of the dna strands and in which the synthesis of new strands takes place .
rna polymerase ii ,  one of three nuclear dna - directed rna polymerases found in all eukaryotes ,  is a multisubunit complex ;  typically it produces mrnas ,  snornas ,  and some of the snrnas .
a ubiquitin ligase complex that degrades mitotic cyclins and anaphase inhibitory protein ,  thereby triggering sister chromatid separation and exit from mitosis .
any of a series of ribonucleoprotein complexes that contain snrna ( s )  and small nuclear ribonucleoproteins  ( snrnps )  ,  and are formed sequentially during the spliceosomal splicing of one or more substrate rnas ,  and which also contain the rna substrate ( s )  from the initial target rnas of splicing ,  the splicing intermediate rna ( s )  ,  to the final rna products .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear rna u5 ,  a heptameric ring of sm proteins ,  as well as several proteins that are unique to the u5 snrnp ,  most of which remain associated with the u5 snrna both while the u5 snrnp is free or assembled into a series of spliceosomal complexes .
any spliceosomal complex that forms during the splicing of a messenger rna primary transcript to excise an intron that has canonical consensus sequences near the 5' and 3' ends .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear rna u1 ,  a heptameric ring of sm proteins ,  as well as several proteins that are unique to the u1 snrnp ,  most of which remain associated with the u1 snrna both while the u1 snrnp is free or assembled into a series of spliceosomal complexes .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear rna u2 ,  a heptameric ring of sm proteins ,  as well as several proteins that are unique to the u2 snrnp ,  most of which remain associated with the u2 snrna both while the u2 snrnp is free or assembled into a series of spliceosomal complexes .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains small nuclear rna u6 ,  the lsm2 - 8 heptameric ring complex ,  as well as several proteins that are unique to the u6 snrnp ,  most of which remain associated with the u6 snrna both while the u6 snrnp is free or assembled into the u4 / u6 snrnp or into a series of spliceosomal complexes .
structural unit composed of a nucleic acid molecule which controls its own replication through the interaction of specific proteins at one or more origins of replication .
the dispersed less dense form of chromatin in the interphase nucleus .
a condensed form of chromatin ,  occurring in the nucleus during interphase ,  that stains strongly with basophilic dyes .
heterochromatin that is located adjacent to the cenp - a rich centromere 'central core' and characterized by the modified histone h3k9me3 .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the mitochondrion and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the mitochondrial envelope .
the protein complexes that form the mitochondrial electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with the inner mitochondrial membrane .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
the gel - like material ,  with considerable fine structure ,  that lies in the matrix space ,  or lumen ,  of a mitochondrion .
a ribosome found in the mitochondrion of a eukaryotic cell ;  contains a characteristic set of proteins distinct from those of cytosolic ribosomes .
the larger of the two subunits of a mitochondrial ribosome .
the smaller of the two subunits of a mitochondrial ribosome .
a vacuole to which materials ingested by endocytosis are delivered .
a prelysosomal endocytic organelle differentiated from early endosomes by lower lumenal ph and different protein composition .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the vacuole and separating its contents from the cytoplasm of the cell .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
a double - membrane - bounded compartment that engulfs endogenous cellular material as well as invading microorganisms to target them to the lytic vacuole / lysosome for degradation as part of macroautophagy .
a small organelle enclosed by a single membrane ,  and found in most eukaryotic cells .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the endoplasmic reticulum .
the lipid bilayer surrounding the endoplasmic reticulum .
a membrane - bound cytoplasmic organelle of the endomembrane system that further processes the core oligosaccharides  ( e .g .
the set of thin ,  flattened membrane - bounded compartments ,  called cisternae ,  that form the central portion of the golgi complex .
an intracellular non - membrane - bounded organelle comprising a matrix of coalesced lipids surrounded by a phospholipid monolayer .
an intracellular structure that can catalyze gamma - tubulin - dependent microtubule nucleation and that can anchor microtubules by interacting with their minus ends ,  plus ends or sides .
the microtubule organizing center in fungi ;  functionally homologous to the animal cell centrosome .
an array of microtubules emanating from a spindle pole mtoc that do not connect to kinetochores .
the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
a cytoskeletal structure composed of actin filaments and myosin that forms beneath the plasma membrane of many cells ,  including animal cells and yeast cells ,  in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the spindle ,  i .e .
any of the spindle microtubules that come from each pole and overlap at the spindle midzone .
the part of the cytoplasm that does not contain organelles but which does contain other particulate matter ,  such as protein complexes .
a multisubunit complex ,  which caps one or both ends of the proteasome core complex .
a multisubunit barrel shaped endoprotease complex ,  which is the core of the proteasome complex .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
any of the long ,  generally straight ,  hollow tubes of internal diameter 12 - 15 nm and external diameter 24 nm found in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells ;  each consists  ( usually )  of 13 protofilaments of polymeric tubulin ,  staggered in such a manner that the tubulin monomers are arranged in a helical pattern on the microtubular surface ,  and with the alpha / beta axes of the tubulin subunits parallel to the long axis of the tubule ;  exist in equilibrium with pool of tubulin monomers and can be rapidly assembled or disassembled in response to physiological stimuli ;  concerned with force generation ,  e .g .
any microtubule that is part of a mitotic or meiotic spindle ;  anchored at one spindle pole .
any microtubule in the nucleus of a cell .
any microtubule in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a filamentous structure formed of a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins .
a stable protein complex that contains two actin - related proteins ,  arp2 and arp3 ,  and five novel proteins  ( arpc1 - 5 )  ,  and functions in the nucleation of branched actin filaments .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
the projection formed by unicellular fungi in response to mating pheromone .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
a tight ring - shaped structure that forms in the division plane at the site of cytokinesis ;  composed of members of the conserved family of filament - forming proteins called septins as well as septin - associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any disaccharide ,  sugars composed of two monosaccharide units .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aldehydes ,  any organic compound with the formula r - ch=o ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lactate ,  the anion of lactic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyruvate ,  2 - oxopropanoate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate ,  with the concomitant production of a small amount of atp and the reduction of nad ( p )  to nad ( p ) h . glycolysis begins with the metabolism of a carbohydrate to generate products that can enter the pathway and ends with the production of pyruvate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
the anaerobic enzymatic conversion of organic compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  coupling the oxidation and reduction of nad / h and the generation of adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  .
the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
the transfer of electrons from nadh to ubiquinone that occurs during oxidative phosphorylation .
the transfer of electrons from succinate to ubiquinone that occurs during oxidative phosphorylation ,  mediated by the multisubunit enzyme known as complex ii .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purines .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases ,  one of the two classes of nitrogen - containing ring compounds found in dna and rna ,  which include adenine and guanine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a nucleoside diphosphate to produce a nucleoside triphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyrimidine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a pyrimidine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pyrimidine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a pyrimidine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of dttp ,  deoxyribosylthymine triphosphate .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
the cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of dna .
a dna replication process that uses parental dna as a template for the dna - dependent dna polymerases that synthesize the new strands .
the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the nuclear pre - replicative complex ,  a protein - dna complex that forms at the eukaryotic dna replication origin and is required for replication initiation .
the process in which interchain hydrogen bonds between two strands of dna are broken or 'melted' ,  generating unpaired template strands for dna replication .
the synthesis of a short rna polymer ,  usually 4 - 15 nucleotides long ,  using one strand of unwound dna as a template ;  the rna then serves as a primer from which dna polymerases extend synthesis .
the process in which dna - dependent dna replication is started ;  this begins with the atp dependent loading of an initiator complex onto the dna ,  this is followed by dna melting and helicase activity .
the process in which an existing dna strand is extended by activities including the addition of nucleotides to the 3' end of the strand ,  complementary to an existing template ,  as part of dna replication .
the process in which an existing dna strand is extended in a net 3' to 5' direction by activities including the addition of nucleotides to the 3' end of the strand ,  complementary to an existing template ,  as part of dna replication .
the process in which dna replication at a replication fork ceases ;  occurs when the replication fork reaches a specific termination site or when two replication forks meet .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
a dna biosynthetic process that uses rna as a template for rna - dependent dna polymerases  ( e .g .
the replication of dna that precedes meiotic cell division .
the process of restoring dna after damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
a dna repair process in which a small region of the strand surrounding the damage is removed from the dna helix as an oligonucleotide .
a system for the correction of errors in which an incorrect base ,  which cannot form hydrogen bonds with the corresponding base in the parent strand ,  is incorporated into the daughter strand .
the conversion of dna - damage induced single - stranded gaps into large molecular weight dna after replication .
the repair of double - strand breaks in dna via homologous and nonhomologous mechanisms to reform a continuous dna helix .
the repair of a double - strand break in dna in which the two broken ends are rejoined with little or no sequence complementarity .
any process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
the exchange ,  reciprocal or nonreciprocal ,  of genetic material between one dna molecule and a homologous region of dna that occurs during mitotic cell cycles .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
any process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin .
the formation or destruction of chromatin structures .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a nucleosome ,  the beadlike structural units of eukaryotic chromatin composed of histones and dna .
the formation of nucleosomes on newly replicated dna ,  coupled to strand elongation .
the formation of nucleosomes outside the context of dna replication .
dynamic structural changes to eukaryotic chromatin occurring throughout the cell division cycle .
repression of transcription by altering the structure of chromatin ,  e .g .
repression of transcription of telomeric dna by altering the structure of chromatin .
heritable alterations in the activity of a gene that depend on whether it passed through the paternal or the maternal germline ,  but that are not encoded by dna itself .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process involved in the assembly of the rna polymerase preinitiation complex  ( pic )  at the core promoter region of a dna template ,  resulting in the subsequent synthesis of rna from that promoter .
the cellular process that completes dna - templated transcription ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance at a dna - dependent rna polymerase promoter by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by an rna polymerase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna ploymerase iii .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase i  ( rnap i )  ,  originating at an rnap i promoter .
the process in which the synthesis of an rna molecule by rna polymerase i using a dna template is completed .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into one or more mature rrna molecules .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase ii  ( rnap ii )  ,  originating at an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance at an rna polymerase ii promoter by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by rna polymerase ii .
the process in which the synthesis of an rna molecule by rna polymerase ii using a dna template is completed .
the enzymatic addition of a sequence of 40 - 200 adenylyl residues at the 3' end of a eukaryotic mrna primary transcript .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase iii ,  originating at an rnap iii promoter .
any process involved in the assembly of the rna polymerase iii preinitiation complex  ( pic )  at an rna polymerase iii promoter region of a dna template ,  resulting in the subsequent synthesis of rna from that promoter .
the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance at an rna polymerase iii promoter by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by rna polymerase iii .
the process in which transcription by rna polymerase iii is terminated ;  pol iii has an intrinsic ability to terminate transcription upon incorporation of 4 to 6 contiguous u residues .
splicing of trna substrates via recognition of the folded rna structure that brings the 5' and 3' splice sites into proximity and cleavage of the rna at both the 3' and 5' splice sites by an endonucleolytic mechanism ,  followed by ligation of the exons .
the synthesis of rna from a mitochondrial dna template ,  usually by a specific mitochondrial rna polymerase .
the process in which the synthesis of an rna molecule using a mitochondrial dna template is completed .
any process involved in the conversion of one or more primary rna transcripts into one or more mature rna molecules .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into one or more mature mrna ( s )  prior to translation into polypeptide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving trna ,  transfer rna ,  a class of relatively small rna molecules responsible for mediating the insertion of amino acids into the sequence of nascent polypeptide chains during protein synthesis .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within a trna molecule to produce a trna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mrna ,  messenger rna ,  which is responsible for carrying the coded genetic 'message' ,  transcribed from dna ,  to sites of protein assembly at the ribosomes .
a process in which rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the directed movement of mrna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna or circrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
the synthesis of aminoacyl trna by the formation of an ester bond between the 3' - hydroxyl group of the most 3' adenosine of the trna and the alpha carboxylic acid  group of an amino acid ,  to be used in ribosome - mediated polypeptide synthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or accuracy of translational elongation .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
the process of removing one or more phosphoric residues from a protein .
the addition of an acetyl group to a protein amino acid .
the addition of an acetyl group to a non - terminal amino acid in a protein .
the removal of an acetyl group from a protein amino acid .
the addition of a methyl group to a protein amino acid .
the removal of a methyl group ,  from a protein amino acid .
a protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid ,  e .g .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the n4 atom of peptidyl - asparagine ,  the omega - n of arginine ,  or the n1' atom peptidyl - tryptophan .
the conversion of n - linked glycan  ( n = nitrogen )  structures from the initially transferred oligosaccharide to a mature form ,  by the actions of glycosidases and glycosyltransferases .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the hydroxyl group of peptidyl - serine ,  peptidyl - threonine ,  peptidyl - hydroxylysine ,  or peptidyl - hydroxyproline ,  or via the phenol group of peptidyl - tyrosine ,  forming an o - glycan .
the covalent attachment of lipid groups to an amino acid in a protein .
the hydrolysis of proteins into smaller polypeptides and / or amino acids by cleavage of their peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of a ubiquitin group ,  or multiple ubiquitin groups ,  to the protein .
addition of a single ubiquitin group to a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of misfolded or attenuated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving arginine ,  2 - amino - 5 -  ( carbamimidamido ) pentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of arginine ,  2 - amino - 5 -  ( carbamimidamido ) pentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cysteine ,  2 - amino - 3 - mercaptopropanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving proline  ( pyrrolidine - 2 - carboxylic acid )  ,  a chiral ,  cyclic ,  nonessential alpha - amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ornithine ,  an amino acid only rarely found in proteins ,  but which is important in living organisms as an intermediate in the reactions of the urea cycle and in arginine biosynthesis .
the process of targeting specific proteins to particular regions of the cell ,  typically membrane - bounded subcellular organelles .
the directed movement of a protein from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
the directed movement of a protein from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
the process of directing proteins towards a membrane ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
the targeting of proteins to a membrane that occurs during translation .
the targeting of proteins to a membrane that occurs during translation and is dependent upon two key components ,  the signal - recognition particle  ( srp )  and the srp receptor .
the process of directing proteins towards the vacuole ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
protein processing that takes place in the vacuole .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids ,  aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving neutral lipids ,  lipids only soluble in solvents of very low polarity .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving acylglycerol ,  any mono -  ,  di -  or triester of glycerol with  ( one or more )  fatty acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving triglyceride ,  any triester of glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus ;  includes de novo formation and steroid interconversion by modification .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ergosterol ,   ( 22e )  - ergosta - 5 , 7 , 22 - trien - 3 - beta - ol ,  a sterol found in ergot ,  yeast and moulds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glutathione ,  the tripeptide glutamylcysteinylglycine ,  which acts as a coenzyme for some enzymes and as an antioxidant in the protection of sulfhydryl groups in enzymes and other proteins ;  it has a specific role in the reduction of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  and oxidized ascorbate ,  and it participates in the gamma - glutamyl cycle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glutathione ,  the tripeptide glutamylcysteinylglycine ,  which acts as a coenzyme for some enzymes and as an antioxidant in the protection of sulfhydryl groups in enzymes and other proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any phosphorylated nucleoside .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of atp ,  adenosine 5' - triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into adp ,  adenosine diphosphate ,  to produce atp .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a polyphosphate ,  the anion or salt of polyphosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a polyphosphate ,  the anion or salt of polyphosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of cations ,  atoms or small molecules with a net positive charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of potassium ions  ( k +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of calcium  ( ca )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of copper  ( cu )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of iron  ( fe )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of dicarboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
transport of substances into ,  out of or within a mitochondrion .
the directed movement of oligopeptides into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of purine bases ,  one of the two classes of nitrogen - containing ring compounds found in dna and rna ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of asparagine ,  alpha - aminosuccinamic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of glutamine ,  2 - amino - 4 - carbamoylbutanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of iron ions at the level of a cell .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
a process of secretion by a cell that results in the release of intracellular molecules  ( e .g .
the directed movement of substances from the golgi to other parts of the cell ,  including organelles and the plasma membrane ,  mediated by small transport vesicles .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
the evagination of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
fusion of the membrane of a transport vesicle with its target membrane .
the directed movement of molecules between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
the cellular catabolic process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ;  allows for both recycling of macromolecular constituents under conditions of cellular stress and remodeling the intracellular structure for cell differentiation .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
the breakdown of structures such as organelles ,  proteins ,  or other macromolecular structures during apoptosis .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any series of molecular signals that conveys information from the endoplasmic reticulum to the nucleus ,  usually resulting in a change in transcriptional regulation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nuclear envelope .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleolus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayer surrounding a mitochondrion .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a microtubule - based process that results in the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of a microtubule .
the process in which tubulin alpha - beta heterodimers begin aggregation to form an oligomeric tubulin structure  ( a microtubule seed )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization ;  prevention of depolymerization of a microtubule can result from binding by 'capping' at the plus end  ( e .g .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endoplasmic reticulum .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the golgi apparatus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a peroxisome .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of endosomes .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a vacuole .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions in the vacuole or between a vacuole and its surroundings .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein in the vacuole ,  usually by the action of vacuolar proteases .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
a regulatory process that halts progression through the cell cycle during one of the normal phases  ( g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  m )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during dna segregation and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the cell cycle process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome become tethered to each other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid cohesion .
the cell cycle process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the entire length of the chromosome ,  from their formation in s phase through metaphase during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as the cell leaves m phase .
the cell cycle process in which chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis in eukaryotic cells .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of chromosomes from the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles occurs .
the cell cycle process in which chromosomes are aligned at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the mitotic spindle ,  during mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
a cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering s phase via a positive feedback mechanism between the regulation of transcription and g1 cdk activity .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
a cell cycle checkpoint that ensures accurate chromosome replication and segregation by preventing progression through a mitotic cell cycle until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression through the g2 / m transition of the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
any process involved in the progression from anaphase / telophase to g1 that is associated with a conversion from high to low mitotic cdk activity .
the directed movement of the nucleus to a specific location within a cell .
the process of marking the place where cytokinesis will occur .
a pattern of cell growth that occurs in conditions of nitrogen limitation and abundant fermentable carbon source .
the first meiotic nuclear division in which homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two haploid daughter nuclei .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of meiosis i and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the meiotic cell cycle process where side by side pairing and physical juxtaposition of homologous chromosomes is created during meiotic prophase .
the cell cycle process in which double strand breaks are formed and repaired through a single or double holliday junction intermediate .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase i ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell as part of meiosis i .
the cell cycle phase during which chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle the as part of meiosis i .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase i of meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
the second nuclear division of meiosis ,  in which the two chromatids in each chromosome are separated ,  resulting in four daughter nuclei from the two nuclei produced in meiosis ii .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of meiosis ii and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase during which chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle the as part of meiosis ii .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity .
any process that increases the concentration of calcium ions in the cytosol .
any series of molecular signals in which a small monomeric gtpase relays one or more of the signals .
a series of molecular signals within the cell that are mediated by a member of the ras superfamily of proteins switching to a gtp - bound active state .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process involving pheromones that activates or increases the rate of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that establishes and transmits the specification of sexual status of an individual organism .
any process that establishes and transmits the specification of mating type upon an individual .
the conversion of a single - cell organism from one mating type to another by the precise replacement of a dna sequence at the expressed mating type locus with a copy of a sequence from a donor locus .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with microtubules ,  filaments composed of tubulin monomers .
the process in which a pre - trna molecule is converted to a mature trna ,  ready for addition of an aminoacyl group .
binds to and increases the activity of an enzyme .
merging of two or more mitochondria within a cell to form a single compartment .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly or disassembly of actin filaments by the addition or removal of actin monomers from a filament .
catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a phosphodiester to give a phosphomonoester and a free hydroxyl group .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein component of any cytoskeleton  ( actin ,  microtubule ,  or intermediate filament cytoskeleton )  .
the binding activity of a protein that brings together a cytoskeletal protein  ( either a microtubule or actin filament ,  spindle pole body ,  or protein directly bound to them )  and one or more other molecules ,  permitting them to function in a coordinated way .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ;  this reaction requires the presence of single -  or double - stranded dna ,  and it drives another reaction .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: coqh2  +  2 ferricytochrome c = coq  +  2 ferrocytochrome c  +  2 h +  .
catalysis of the reaction: a primary amine  +  h2o  +  o2 = an aldehyde  +  nh3  +  hydrogen peroxide .
catalysis of the reaction: nadh  +  ubiquinone  +  5 h (  +  )  ( in )   < = >  nad (  +  )   +  ubiquinol  +  4 h (  +  )  ( out )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nuclear localization sequence ,  a specific peptide sequence that acts as a signal to localize the protein within the nucleus .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a sequence of adenylyl residues in an rna molecule ,  such as the poly ( a )  tail ,  a sequence of adenylyl residues at the 3' end of eukaryotic mrna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a drug ,  any naturally occurring or synthetic substance ,  other than a nutrient ,  that ,  when administered or applied to an organism ,  affects the structure or functioning of the organism ;  in particular ,  any such substance used in the diagnosis ,  prevention ,  or treatment of disease .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
assembly or disassembly of actin filaments by the addition or removal of actin monomers from a filament .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group to the nitrogen atom of an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from a donor to a nucleoside residue in an rna molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from a donor to a nucleoside residue in a trna molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: succinate  +  ubiquinone = fumarate  +  ubiquinol .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any stretch of pyrimidines  ( cytosine or uracil )  in an rna molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from a udp - sugar to a small hydrophobic molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ergosterol ,   ( 22e )  - ergosta - 5 , 7 , 22 - trien - 3 - beta - ol ,  a sterol found in ergot ,  yeast and moulds .
the addition of an alkyl group to a protein amino acid .
the removal of an alkyl group from a protein amino acid .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond not more than three residues from the n -  or c - terminus of a polypeptide chain ,  in a reaction that requires a free n - terminal amino group ,  c - terminal carboxyl group or both .
catalysis of the cleavage of non - standard peptide bonds releasing substituted amino acids such as pyroglutamate or cleave isopeptide bonds ,  such as many deubiquitinating enzymes .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a sequence of uracil residues in an rna molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with zinc  ( zn )  ions .
the directed movement of sulfate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group  ( ch3 -  )  to a protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a lipid .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 5' or 3' terminus of a single - stranded dna molecule .
the activity of binding selectively and non - covalently to and distorting the original structure of dna ,  typically a straight helix ,  into a bend ,  or increasing the bend if the original structure was intrinsically bent due to its sequence .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from meiotic g2 phase to m phase of meiosis i .
catalysis of the covalent addition of an isoprenoid group such as a farnesyl or geranylgeranyl group via thioether linkages to a cysteine residue in a protein .
enables the transfer of cation from one side of a membrane to the other .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +   ( dna - directed rna polymerase ii )  = adp  +  phospho -  ( dna - directed rna polymerase ii )  ;  phosphorylation occurs on residues in the carboxy - terminal domain  ( ctd )  repeats .
any process that modulates the surface configuration of a cell .
any process that modulates the size of a cell .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an n - acetylglucosaminyl residue from udp - n - acetyl - glucosamine to a sugar .
catalysis of the transfer of a galactosyl group to an acceptor molecule ,  typically another carbohydrate or a lipid .
catalysis of the reaction: thioredoxin  +  hydrogen peroxide = thioredoxin disulfide  +  h2o .
the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' end .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 5' end .
catalysis of the reaction: phospho -  ( dna - directed rna polymerase ii )   +  h2o =  ( dna - directed rna polymerase ii )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing beta - d - glucose residues with release of beta - d - glucose .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  pyridoxal = adp  +  pyridoxal 5' - phosphate .
catalysis of the removal of oxidized purine bases by cleaving the n - c1' glycosidic bond between the oxidized purine and the deoxyribose sugar .
the process in which spindle microtubules become physically associated with the proteins making up the kinetochore complex .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
catalysis of the activation of small proteins ,  such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
the directed movement of carbohydrate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which hexose is transported across a membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to a substrate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of p ( 1 )  , p ( 4 )  - bis ( 5' - nucleosyl ) tetraphosphate into two nucleotides .
catalysis of the endonucleolytic cleavage at a junction such as a reciprocal single - stranded crossover between two homologous dna duplexes  ( holliday junction )  .
catalysis of the reaction: glycerol  +  nad (  +  )  = glycerone  +  h (  +  )   +  nadh .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  trna = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  trna containing n1 - methylguanine .
catalysis of the reaction: urea  +  h2o = co2  +  2 nh3 .
any molecular entity that serves as an electron acceptor and electron donor in an electron transport chain .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the serine family ,  comprising cysteine ,  glycine ,  homoserine ,  selenocysteine and serine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids of the serine family ,  comprising cysteine ,  glycine ,  homoserine ,  selenocysteine and serine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase ,  a nitrogenous base that is a constituent of a nucleic acid ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleobases ,  one of the two classes of nitrogen - containing ring compounds found in dna and rna ,  which include adenine and guanine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide ,  a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside monophosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with phosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a pyrimidine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of pyrimidine nucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a pyrimidine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides ,  any nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic - nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a pyrimidine base linked to a deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of pyrimidine deoxyribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a pyrimidine base linked to a deoxyribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyrimidine deoxynucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a pyrimidine base linked to a deoxyribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pyrimidine deoxyribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a pyrimidine base linked to a deoxyribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotide - sugars ,  any nucleotide - carbohydrate in which the distal phosphoric residue of a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate is in glycosidic linkage with a monosaccharide or monosaccharide derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotide - sugars ,  any nucleotide - carbohydrate in which the distal phosphoric residue of a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate is in glycosidic linkage with a monosaccharide or monosaccharide derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a deoxyribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of deoxyribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a deoxyribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a deoxyribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of deoxyribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a deoxyribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a 2' - deoxyribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of 2' - deoxyribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a 2' - deoxyribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a fungal - type cell wall .
a rigid yet dynamic structure surrounding the plasma membrane that affords protection from stresses and contributes to cell morphogenesis ,  consisting of extensively cross - linked glycoproteins and carbohydrates .
the region of a virus ,  bacterial cell ,  mitochondrion or chloroplast to which the nucleic acid is confined .
the synthesis of antisense rna ,  an rna molecule complementary in sequence to another rna or dna molecule ,  which ,  by binding the latter ,  acts to inhibit its function and / or completion of synthesis ,  on a template of dna .
the synthesis of ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  ,  any rna that forms part of the ribosomal structure ,  from a dna template .
the addition of biotin  ( vitamin b7  /  vitamin h )  to a protein amino acid .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving oligosaccharides ,  molecules with between two and  ( about )  20 monosaccharide residues connected by glycosidic linkages .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process involving pheromones that activates or increases the rate of transcription .
any process involving pheromones that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a 2' - deoxyribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of 2' - deoxyribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a 2' - deoxyribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving methylglyoxal ,  ch3 - co - cho ,  the aldehyde of pyruvic acid .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within an rna molecule to produce an rna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
the series of events in which a chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a biotic stimulus ,  one caused or produced by a living organism ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which an endogenous stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis ,  resulting in the morphogenesis of the cell .
the physiological and developmental changes that occur in a spore following release from dormancy up to the earliest signs of growth  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
the leaflet of the plasma membrane that faces away from the cytoplasm and any proteins embedded or anchored in it or attached to its surface .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
catalysis of a ring closure reaction .
the external part of the cell wall and / or plasma membrane .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the lipid bilayer surrounding an endosome .
compaction of chromatin structure prior to meiosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proton transport into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endomembrane system .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide .
the infolding of a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of lithium ion into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of lithium ion out of a cell or organelle .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the modification of histone h3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 36 of the histone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell fate commitment .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency or rate of cell fate commitment .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency or rate of cell fate commitment .
the cell cycle transition where a cell leaves m phase and enters a new g1 phase .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds that is mediated by the proteasome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of autophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to nitrogen starvation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of recombination during meiosis .
any process that modulates the rate of the directed movement of calcium ions into the cytosol of a cell .
any process that decreases the rate of the directed movement of calcium ions into the cytosol of a cell .
any process that increases the rate of the directed movement of calcium ions into the cytosol of a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna - mediated transposition .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna - mediated transposition .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna - mediated transposition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transposition .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transposition .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transposition .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a ketone ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the error - free repair of a double - strand break in dna in which the broken dna molecule is repaired using homologous sequences .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process of physically separating the septal cell wall material by enzymatic digestion ,  that occurs after daughter cells are separated by cytokinesis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression after the production of an rna transcript .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of merging of two or more mitochondria within a cell to form a single compartment .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of merging of two or more mitochondria within a cell to form a single compartment .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of merging of two or more mitochondria within a cell to form a single compartment .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any cellular process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates carried out by repression of transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process involving the release of duplicated mitotic spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  and their migration away from each other within the nuclear membrane .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process involving the release of duplicated mitotic spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  and their migration away from each other within the nuclear membrane .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process involving the release of duplicated mitotic spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  and their migration away from each other within the nuclear membrane .
the cell cycle process in which the 5' to 3' exonucleolytic resection of the dna at the site of the break to form a 3' single - strand dna overhang occurs resulting in double strand break formation and repair through a double holliday junction intermediate .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
a system for the identification and correction of base - base mismatches ,  small insertion - deletion loops ,  and regions of heterology that are present in duplex dna formed with strands from two recombining molecules resulting in meiotic recombination .
the cell cycle process in which double - strand breaks are generated at defined hotspots throughout the genome during meiosis i resulting in meiotic recombination .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the entire length of the chromosome during meiosis i .
the 5' to 3' exonucleolytic resection of the dna at the site of the break to form a 3' single - strand dna overhang that results in the repair of a double strand break via single - strand annealing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of mrna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - threonine phosphorylation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - threonine phosphorylation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - threonine phosphorylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - substrate adhesion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - substrate adhesion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell - substrate adhesion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of recombination during meiosis .
any process the modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin assembly .
modulates the activity of an enzyme that catalyzes a ring closure reaction .
decreases the activity of an enzyme that catalyzes a ring closure reaction .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of triglyceride biosynthesis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of triglyceride biosynthesis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of triglyceride biosynthesis .
any process in which a lipid is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of lipids into cells that is part of their accumulation and maintenance .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of lipid storage .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ergosterol .
any process that modulates the activity of an isomerase .
any process that increases the activity of an isomerase .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic microtubule depolymerization .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of a cytoplasmic microtubule .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of protein maturation by peptide bond cleavage .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of protein maturation by peptide bond cleavage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of amino acid import into a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of metal ion transport .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of glucan biosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - arginine import .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heterochromatin assembly by small rna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of microtubule nucleation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pheromone - dependent signal transduction during conjugation with cellular fusion ,  a signal transduction process resulting in the relay ,  amplification or dampening of a signal generated in response to pheromone exposure in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion .
the movement of organelles or other particles from one location in the cell to another along microtubules ,  driven by motor activity .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of division septum formation .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of division septum formation .
a process that impedes the progress of the dna replication fork at natural replication fork pausing sites within the mating type locus .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the four - electron reduction of dioxygen  ( o2 )  to water ,  coupled to generation of a proton electrochemical gradient across a membrane .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the reaction: a protein with reduced sulfide groups = a protein with oxidized disulfide bonds .
catalysis of the reaction: substrate with reduced sulfide groups = substrate with oxidized disulfide bonds .
catalysis of the reaction: a peptide with reduced sulfide groups = a peptide with oxidized disulfide bonds .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 glutathione  +  electron acceptor = glutathione disulfide  +  electron donor .
the process in which a segment of dna is incorporated into another ,  usually larger ,  dna molecule such as a chromosome .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of a inorganic cations with a valency of one from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of a proton from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of sodium ions  ( na +  )  from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of calcium  ( ca )  ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the facilitated diffusion of a hydrogen ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  involving passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the energy - independent facilitated diffusion ,  mediated by passage of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel .
enables the transfer of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up its concentration gradient .
enables the active transport of a solute across a membrane by a mechanism whereby two or more species are transported in opposite directions in a tightly coupled process not directly linked to a form of energy other than chemiosmotic energy .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: solute ( out )   +  cation ( in )  = solute ( in )   +  cation ( out )  .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: solute ( out )   +  h +  ( in )  = solute ( in )   +  h +  ( out )  .
enables the transfer of an inorganic molecular entity from the outside of a cell to the inside of the cell across a membrane .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: na +  ( out )   +  h +  ( in )  = na +  ( in )   +  h +  ( out )  .
enables the transfer of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up the solute's concentration gradient ,  by binding the solute and undergoing a series of conformational changes .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: cation a ( out )   +  cation b ( in )  = cation a ( in )   +  cation b ( out )  .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of actin and associated proteins .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of microtubules and associated proteins .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with monomeric or multimeric forms of tubulin ,  including microtubules .
catalysis of the ligation of a fatty acid to an acceptor ,  coupled to the hydrolysis of atp .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ,  to directly drive the transport of ions across a membrane .
the directed movement of inorganic cations with a valency of one into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of nickel  ( ni )  cations into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of copper ions into a cell or organelle .
the directed movement of copper ions across the plasma membrane .
the directed movement of inorganic anions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic anions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of monocarboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a c4 - dicarboxylate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of malate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of succinate ,  the dianion of ethane dicarboxylic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a monosaccharide is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of nucleotide - sugars into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of polyols ,  any polyhydric alcohol ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of myo - inositol into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of acidic amino acids ,  amino acids with a ph below 7 ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of aromatic amino acids ,  amino acids with aromatic ring ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of basic amino acids ,  amino acids with a ph above 7 ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of branched - chain amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of neutral amino acids ,  amino acids with no net charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of l - enantiomer amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of arginine ,  2 - amino - 5 - guanidinopentanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of l - glutamate across a membrane .
the directed movement of glycine ,  aminoethanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of isoleucine ,   ( 2r* , 3r* )  - 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of leucine ,  2 - amino - 4 - methylpentanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of methionine ,  2 - amino - 4 -  ( methylthio ) butanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of proline ,  pyrrolidine - 2 - carboxylic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of l - serine ,  the l - enantiomer of 2 - amino - 3 - hydroxypropanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of threonine ,   ( 2r* , 3s* )  - 2 - amino - 3 - hydroxybutanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of tyrosine ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) propanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of valine ,  2 - amino - 3 - methylbutanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of amines ,  including polyamines ,  organic compounds containing one or more amino groups ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of an organic hydroxy compound  ( organic alcohol )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a nucleobase ,  any nitrogenous base that is a constituent of a nucleoside ,  nucleotide ,  or nucleic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of adenine ,  6 - aminopurine ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of guanine ,  2 - amino - 6 - hydroxypurine ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of pyrimidine nucleobases ,  one of the two classes of nitrogen - containing ring compounds found in dna and rna ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of uracil ,  2 , 4 - dioxopyrimidine ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of biotin into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of heme ,  any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which pantothenate is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of fatty acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of sterols into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of galactosyl compounds ,  substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of galactose or a galactose derivative .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of glucosyl compounds ,  substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of glucose or a glucose derivative .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of trehalose or a trehalose derivative .
catalysis of the formation of l - glutamine and 2 - oxoglutarate from l - glutamate ,  using nadh ,  nadph or ferredoxin as hydrogen acceptors .
the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the larger of the two subunits of a ribosome .
the smaller of the two subunits of a ribosome .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from organic compounds ;  results in the oxidation of the compounds from which energy is released .
the transport of protons across a membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that provides energy for the synthesis of atp or gtp .
the transport of protons across a membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that powers atp synthesis .
catalysis of the reaction: hydrogen sulfide  +  acceptor  +  3 h2o = sulfite  +  reduced acceptor .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with cyclosporin a ,  a cyclic undecapeptide that contains several n - methylated and unusual amino acids .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the reaction: 2 l - glutamate  +  nad (  +  )  = 2 - oxoglutarate  +  l - glutamine  +  h (  +  )   +  nadh .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mrna ,  messenger rna ,  which is responsible for carrying the coded genetic 'message' ,  transcribed from dna ,  to sites of protein assembly at the ribosomes .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rrna ,  ribosomal rna ,  a structural constituent of ribosomes .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving snrna ,  small nuclear rna ,  any of various low - molecular - mass rna molecules found in the eukaryotic nucleus as components of the small nuclear ribonucleoprotein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving snorna ,  small nucleolar rna ,  any of a class of small rnas that are associated with the eukaryotic nucleus as components of small nucleolar ribonucleoproteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving phytosteroids ,  steroids of higher plants that differ from animal steroids in having substitutions at c24 and / or a double bond at c22 .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phytosteroids ,  steroids that differ from animal steroids in having substitutions at c24 and / or a double bond at c22 .
catalysis of the reaction: nad ( p ) h  +  h +   +  o2 = nad ( p )  +   +  hydrogen peroxide .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  transcript into a mature snrna molecule .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
the directed movement of substances mediated by an endosome ,  a membrane - bounded organelle that carries materials enclosed in the lumen or located in the endosomal membrane .
inhibition of the reactions brought about by dioxygen  ( o2 )  or peroxides .
catalysis of the ligation of ammonia  ( nh3 )  to another substance via a carbon - nitrogen bond with concomitant breakage of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
the major inducible pathway for the general turnover of cytoplasmic constituents in eukaryotic cells ,  it is also responsible for the degradation of active cytoplasmic enzymes and organelles during nutrient starvation .
any process ,  such as recognition of nutrient depletion ,  that activates or increases the rate of macroautophagy to bring cytosolic macromolecules to the vacuole / lysosome for degradation .
the initial attachment of an autophagosome membrane to a target membrane ,  mediated by proteins protruding from the membrane of the vesicle and the target membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macroautophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macroautophagy .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to the epsilon - amino group of a lysine residue .
catalysis of the transfer of a methyl group from s - adenosyl - l - methionine to the epsilon - amino group of a lysine residue in a protein substrate .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the process of removing one or more phosphoric  ( ester or anhydride )  residues from a molecule .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of chromosomes from the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles takes place ,  mediated by the shortening of microtubules attached to the chromosomes .
catalysis of the reaction: substrate  +  atp  +  coash = amp  +  diphosphate  +  substrate - coa .
catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to a nitrogen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the acylglycerol molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of an acetyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  trna = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  trna containing methylguanine .
any process carried out at the cellular level that results in either long - term transcriptional repression via action on chromatin structure or rna mediated ,  post - transcriptional repression of gene expression .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a pyrophosphate bond between two phosphate groups ,  leaving one phosphate on each of the two fragments .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase iii .
the directed movement of substances or organelles within the cytosol .
any protein maturation process achieved by the cleavage of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
the process in which one or more ubiquitin groups are added to a protein .
the alteration of dna or protein in chromatin by the covalent addition or removal of chemical groups .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a histone protein .
the modification of histones by addition of methyl groups .
the modification of histones by addition of phosphate groups .
the modification of a histone by the addition of an acetyl group .
the modification of histones by addition of ubiquitin groups .
the modification of histones by removal of acetyl groups .
the modification of histones by removal of methyl groups .
the removal of one or more ubiquitin groups from a protein .
ordering of successions of nucleosomes into regular arrays so that nucleosomes are positioned at defined distances from one another .
a nuclear dna - directed rna polymerase complex containing an rna polymerase ii core enzyme as well as additional proteins and transcription factor complexes ,  that are capable of promoter recognition and transcription initiation from an rna polymerase ii promoter in vivo .
extra - nucleolar nuclear domains usually visualized by confocal microscopy and fluorescent antibodies to specific proteins .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group act as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of the reversible conversion of pyruvate or oxaloacetate to malate .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad +  or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - ch group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - ch group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a quinone or related compound .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh2 group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh2 group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad +  or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh2 group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces an oxygen molecule .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - nh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a heme protein .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a quinone or a similar acceptor molecule .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces quinone or a related compound .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a heme group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a heme group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces oxygen .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a diphenol or related substance acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a diphenol ,  or related compound ,  acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a cytochrome .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which the peroxide group acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which hydrogen or electrons are transferred from each of two donors ,  and molecular oxygen is reduced or incorporated into a donor .
catalysis of the reaction: a  +  2 - oxoglutarate  +  o2 = b  +  succinate  +  co2 .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a superoxide radical  ( o2 -  or o2 . -  )  acts as a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction in which the oxidation state of metal ion is altered .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction in which the oxidation state of metal ion is altered and nad +  or nadp +  acts as an electron acceptor .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a one - carbon group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a hydroxymethyl -  or formyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a carboxyl -  or carbamoyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group ,  other than amino - acyl ,  from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an amino - acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the reaction: glutathione  +  glu (  - cys )  ( n )  - gly = gly  +  glu (  - cys )  ( n + 1 )  - gly .
catalysis of the transfer of a glycosyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a hexosyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an alkyl or aryl  ( but not methyl )  group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to an alcohol group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to a carboxyl group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to a phosphate group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a diphosphate group from one compound  ( donor )  to a another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a nucleotidyl group to a reactant .
catalysis of the transfer of a substituted phosphate group ,  other than diphosphate or nucleotidyl residues ,  from one compound  ( donor )  to a another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphoric monoesters ,  releasing inorganic phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end to yield 5' phosphomonoesters .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any n - glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any carbon - nitrogen bond ,  c - n ,  with the exception of peptide bonds .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a linear amide .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a linear amidine ,  a compound of the form r - c ( =nh )  - nh2 .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a cyclic amidine ,  a compound of the form r - c ( =nh )  - nh2 .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid anhydride .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any acid anhydride which contains phosphorus .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the nonhydrolytic addition or removal of a carboxyl group to or from a compound .
catalysis of the breakage of a carbon - oxygen bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of a carbon - oxygen bond by elimination of water .
catalysis of the cleavage of a phosphorus - oxygen bond by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
catalysis of a reaction that alters the configuration of one or more chiral centers in a molecule .
catalysis of a reaction that alters the configuration of one or more chiral centers in a carbohydrate molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a functional group from one position to another within a single molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group from one position to another within a single molecule .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  using the energy from the hydrolysis of atp ,  a similar triphosphate ,  or a ph gradient .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules via a carbon - sulfur bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the joining of an acid and a thiol via a carbon - sulfur bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the ligation of an acid to ammonia  ( nh3 )  or an amide via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the ligation of an acid to an amino acid via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the joining of two groups within a single molecule via a carbon - nitrogen bond ,  forming heterocyclic ring ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate  +  2 h +  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 3' - phosphomonoesters .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages at specific sites within a deoxyribonucleic acid molecule by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 3' - phosphomonoesters .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end to yield 5' phosphomonoesters .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acids by removing nucleotide residues from the 3' or 5' end to yield 5' phosphomonoesters .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
the process in which a sumo protein  ( small ubiquitin - related modifier )  is conjugated to a target protein via an isopeptide bond between the carboxy - terminus of sumo with an epsilon - amino group of a lysine residue of the target protein .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide or isopeptide bonds within sumo ,  or between the sumo and a larger protein to which it has been conjugated .
the directed movement of poly ( a )  +  mrna out of the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
the targeting and directed movement of proteins into a cell or organelle .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with purine nucleotides ,  any compound consisting of a purine nucleoside esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: a nucleoside diphosphate  +  h2o = a nucleotide  +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: a nucleoside triphosphate  +  h2o = nucleoside diphosphate  +  phosphate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
catalysis of the reaction: cdp  +  alcohol = cmp  +  phosphatidyl alcohol .
the methylation of peptidyl - lysine to form either the mono -  ,  di -  or trimethylated derivative .
the methylation of peptidyl - lysine to form peptidyl - n6 , n6 , n6 - trimethyl - l - lysine .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  histone l - lysine = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  histone n6 - methyl - l - lysine .
the methylation of peptidyl - lysine to form peptidyl - n6 - methyl - l - lysine .
the methylation of peptidyl - lysine to form peptidyl - n6 , n6 - dimethyl - l - lysine .
the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine to form peptidyl - o - phospho - l - serine .
the phosphorylation of peptidyl - threonine to form peptidyl - o - phospho - l - threonine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the modification of a protein amino acid by oxidation .
the alteration of an amino acid residue in a peptide .
the modification of peptidyl - arginine .
the modification of peptidyl - lysine .
the modification of peptidyl - serine .
the modification of peptidyl - threonine .
the modification of a protein amino acid by phosphopantetheinylation .
the addition of a methyl group to an arginine residue in a protein .
the covalent attachment of a palmitoyl group to a protein .
the addition of an acetyl group to a non - terminal lysine residue in a protein .
the acetylation of peptidyl - lysine .
catalysis of the reaction: an alcohol  +  nad ( p )  +  = an aldehyde  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with guanyl nucleotides ,  any compound consisting of guanosine esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with gmp ,  guanosine monophosphate .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with gdp ,  guanosine 5' - diphosphate .
any process in which mitochondrial rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
catalysis of the removal of damaged bases by cleaving the n - c1' glycosidic bond between the target damaged dna base and the deoxyribose sugar .
catalysis of the reaction: methylglyoxal  +  h2o = d - lactate .
the biosynthetic process in which peptide bond formation occurs in the absence of the translational machinery .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp or gtp ,  to a nucleobase ,  nucleoside ,  nucleotide or polynucleotide substrate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of an acetyl group or groups from a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any non - peptide carbon - nitrogen bond in a cyclic amidine ,  a compound of the form r - c ( =nh )  - nh2 ,  in a reaction that involves the opening of a ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lactate ,  the anion of lactic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cysteine ,  2 - amino - 3 - mercaptopropanoic acid .
any process ,  acting at the cellular level ,  involved in removing superoxide radicals  ( o2 -  )  from a cell or organism ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a triglyceride ,  any triester of glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of arginine into other compounds ,  including proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organophosphates ,  any phosphate - containing organic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving deoxyribose phosphate ,  the phosphorylated sugar 2 - deoxy - erythro - pentose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
catalysis of the transfer of atg12 from one protein to another via the reaction x - atg12  +  y  -  -  >  y - atg12  +  x ,  where both x - atg12 and y - atg12 are covalent linkages .
catalysis of the activation of the small ubiquitin - related modifier apg12 ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide or isopeptide bonds within small proteins such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins  ( e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of nedd8 ,  a small ubiquitin - related modifier ,  from previously neddylated substrates .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of apg8 ,  a small ubiquitin - related modifier .
catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin - like from one protein to another via the reaction x - ulp  +  y  -  -  >  y - ulp  +  x ,  where both x - ulp and y - ulp are covalent linkages .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: atp  +  h2o  +  cation ( out )  = adp  +  phosphate  +  cation ( in )  .
the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of an organelle envelope ;  usually highly selective to most ions and metabolites .
cyclin - dependent protein kinase  ( cdk )  complex found in the nucleus .
the accumulation and maintenance in cells or tissues of lipids ,  compounds soluble in organic solvents but insoluble or sparingly soluble in aqueous solvents .
the process of methylation of peptidyl - arginine to form peptidyl - n ( omega )  , n ( omega )  - dimethyl - l - arginine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent modification of the target protein .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
the replication of damaged dna by synthesis across a lesion in the template strand ;  a specialized dna polymerase or replication complex inserts a defined nucleotide across from the lesion which allows dna synthesis to continue beyond the lesion .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heme ,  any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the cell cycle is divided .
the initial attachment of a membrane or protein to a target membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a single - celled organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a complex containing rna and proteins .
the dna metabolic process in which an existing dna strand is extended by activities including the addition of nucleotides to the 3' end of the strand .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a ribonucleoprotein complex .
a protein complex ,  that caps one or both ends of the proteasome core complex and regulates entry into ,  or exit from ,  the proteasome core complex .
the large subunit of a ribosome located in the cytosol .
a ribosome located in the cytosol .
the small subunit of a ribosome located in the cytosol .
enables the transfer of a single solute from one side of a membrane to the other by a mechanism involving conformational change ,  either by facilitated diffusion or in a membrane potential dependent process if the solute is charged .
enables the transfer of a specific substance or related group of substances from one side of a membrane to the other ,  up the solute's concentration gradient .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other up the solute's concentration gradient .
enables the transfer of a substance ,  usually a specific substance or a group of related substances ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of inorganic cations from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmembrane transporter activity .
a process in which a series of electron carriers operate together to transfer electrons from donors to any of several different terminal electron acceptors to generate a transmembrane electrochemical gradient .
a process in which a series of electron carriers operate together to transfer electrons from donors such as nadh and fadh2 to any of several different terminal electron acceptors to generate a transmembrane electrochemical gradient .
a process in which the transfer of one or more phosphate groups to a substrate transmits a signal to the phosphorylated substrate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression as a consequence of a process in which a signal is released and / or conveyed from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the regulation of a signal transduction pathway in response to a stimulus upon prolonged exposure to that stimulus .
the directed movement of metal ions ,  any metal ion with an electric charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations at the level of a cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the ccr4 - not complex is an eukaryotically conserved deadenylase that can initiate cytoplasmic mrna decay ,  and reduce translation by releasing poly ( a )  - binding protein  ( pab1 / pabpc1 )  .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
assembly of actin filaments by the addition of actin monomers to a filament .
disassembly of actin filaments by the removal of actin monomers from a filament .
assembly of actin filament bundles in which the filaments are tightly packed  ( approximately 10 - 20 nm apart )  and oriented with the same polarity .
movement of organelles or other particles along actin filaments ,  or sliding of actin filaments past each other ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any of the inward folds of the mitochondrial inner membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any of the vesicles of the constitutive secretory pathway ,  which carry cargo from the endoplasmic reticulum to the golgi ,  between golgi cisternae ,  from the golgi to the er  ( retrograde transport )  or to destinations within or outside the cell .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of dna - dependent dna replication ;  the process in which dna becomes competent to replicate .
binds to and modulates the activity of an enzyme .
the process in which peroxisomes are delivered to a type of vacuole and degraded in response to changing nutrient conditions .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any carbohydrate ,  which includes monosaccharides ,  oligosaccharides and polysaccharides as well as substances derived from monosaccharides by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
alterations undergone by nuclei at the molecular and morphological level as part of the execution phase of apoptosis .
the compaction of chromatin during apoptosis .
the breakdown of the nucleus into small membrane - bounded compartments ,  or blebs ,  each of which contain compacted dna .
the region between the plasma membrane and the cell wall in organisms lacking an outer cell membrane such as yeast and gram positive bacteria .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell or cells .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with cyclins ,  proteins whose levels in a cell varies markedly during the cell cycle ,  rising steadily until mitosis ,  then falling abruptly to zero .
an enzyme regulator activity that increases the processivity of polymerization by dna polymerase ,  by allowing the polymerase to move rapidly along dna while remaining topologically bound to it .
any part of a cell where non - isotropic growth takes place .
a structure composed of peptidoglycan and often chitin in addition to other materials .
the series of steps necessary to target endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  - resident proteins for degradation by the cytoplasmic proteasome .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a cellular spore ,  a cell form that can be used for dissemination ,  for survival of adverse conditions because of its heat and dessication resistance ,  and / or for reproduction .
the process in which cells that are products of meiosis acquire the specialized features of ascospores .
the process in which a multicellular organism ,  a unicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
the directed movement of the nucleus along microtubules within the cell ,  mediated by motor proteins .
construction of a new spindle pole body .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an ascospore wall .
an endocytic patch  that consists of an actin - containing structure found at the plasma membrane in cells ;  formed of networks of branched actin filaments that lie just beneath the plasma membrane and assemble ,  move ,  and disassemble rapidly .
the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to specific residues in a trna molecule .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains at least one rna of the small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  class and as well as its associated proteins .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cyclic nucleotide ,  a nucleotide in which the phosphate group is in diester linkage to two positions on the sugar residue .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with camp ,  the nucleotide cyclic amp  ( adenosine 3' , 5' - cyclophosphate )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with adenyl nucleotides ,  any compound consisting of adenosine esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate .
catalysis of the interconversion of arsenate and arsenite .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the binding activity of a protein that brings together two or more macromolecules in contact ,  permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way .
any complex of pre - rrnas ,  ribosomal proteins ,  and associated proteins formed during ribosome biogenesis .
any complex of pre - rrnas ,  ribosomal proteins ,  and associated proteins formed in the nucleolus during ribosome biogenesis .
a preribosomal complex consisting of 27sa ,  27sb ,  and / or 7s pre - rrna ,  5s rrna ,  ribosomal proteins including late - associating large subunit proteins ,  and associated proteins ;  a precursor of the eukaryotic cytoplasmic large ribosomal subunit .
modulates the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase .
the directed movement of substances along cytoskeletal fibers such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleotides .
any process that controls the length of actin filaments in a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of actin filaments by the addition of actin monomers to a filament .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the disassembly of actin filaments by the removal of actin monomers from a filament .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin depolymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin depolymerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin polymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin polymerization .
the portion of the cytoskeleton that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
the portion of the actin cytoskeleton ,  comprising filamentous actin and associated proteins ,  that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures in the cell cortex ,  i .e .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of actin - based cytoskeletal structures in the cell cortex ,  i .e .
any complex that possesses rna polymerase activity ;  generally comprises a catalytic subunit and one or more additional subunits .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of polarized actin - based cytoskeletal structures .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of polarized cytoskeletal structures .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of astral microtubules ,  any of the spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles .
the 'de novo' formation of an astral microtubule ,  in which tubulin heterodimers form metastable oligomeric aggregates ,  some of which go on to support formation of a complete microtubule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with double - stranded dna containing one or more mismatches .
oscillatory movement of the nucleus involved in meiosis i .
dissolution of the primary septum during cell separation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the dissolution of the septum edging during cell separation .
a proteinaceous scaffold associated with fission yeast chromosomes during meiotic prophase .
the cell cycle process in which linear elements are assembled in association with fission yeast chromosomes during meiotic prophase .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a microtubule organizing center ,  a structure from which microtubules grow .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components ,  including gamma - tubulin and other proteins ,  to form an interphase microtubule organizing center .
the series of molecular signals ,  mediated by the small gtpase ras ,  that results in the initiation of contraction of the contractile ring ,  at the beginning of cytokinesis and cell division by septum formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of septation initiation signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of septation initiation signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of septation initiation signaling .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures containing both actin and myosin or paramyosin .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a filament composed of myosin molecules .
assembly of heterochromatin ,  directed by small rnas sharing sequence identity to the repressed region .
dynamic structural changes in centromeric dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the removal of acetyl groups from histones .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the removal of acetyl groups from histones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the removal of acetyl groups from histones .
a pathway of degradation of nuclear - transcribed mrnas that proceeds through a series of steps that is independent of deadenylation ,  but requires decapping followed by transcript decay ,  and that can regulate mrna stability .
cleavage of the 5' - cap of a nuclear - transcribed mrna that is independent of poly ( a )  tail shortening .
a membrane that is one of the two lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope or the outermost membrane of single membrane bound organelle .
a medial cortical band overlaying the nucleus which acts as a landmark for contractile ring positioning and plays a role in cell cycle regulation .
a series of molecular signals in which a stress - activated protein kinase  ( sapk )  cascade relays one or more of the signals .
control of the formation ,  spatial distribution ,  and breakdown of the septin ring .
the controlled breakdown of a septin ring .
assembly or disassembly of microtubules by the addition or removal of tubulin heterodimers from a microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization by the addition or removal of tubulin heterodimers from a microtubule .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization or depolymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule polymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule depolymerization .
the intramolecular conversion of uridine to pseudouridine in a trna molecule .
the intramolecular conversion of uridine to pseudouridine in an snrna molecule .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures formed of microtubules and associated proteins in the cytoplasm of a cell .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an rna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an mrna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an rrna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of a snorna molecule .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids establish stable attachments to microtubules emanating from opposite spindle poles .
any process that decreases the rate of conjugation .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of conjugation .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process in which the proteasome is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  with ubiquitin - protein ligation catalyzed by the anaphase - promoting complex ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
the specialized envelope lying outside the cell membrane of a spore .
a protein - dna complex assembled at eukaryotic dna replication origins immediately prior to the initiation of dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclase activity .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a cyclase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a cyclase .
the process in which a dna replication fork that has stalled is restored to a functional state and replication is restarted .
during ascospore formation ,  the process in which each haploid nucleus becomes encapsulated by a double membrane .
a spindle pole body  ( spb )  organization process that takes place during the second meiotic division during ascospore formation and results in the structural reorganization of the spb ;  includes the recruitment of sporulation - specific proteins to the outer plaque to form the meiotic outer plaque  ( mop )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vesicle fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a cell projection in response to mating pheromone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mating projection formation by unicellular fungi .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of ubiquitin groups to a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of ubiquitin groups to a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of ubiquitin groups to a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
a vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna 3' - end processing ,  any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an mrna molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna 3' - end processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna 3' - end processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or location of heterochromatin formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heterochromatin formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heterochromatin formation .
any ubiquitin ligase complex in which the catalytic core consists of a member of the cullin family and a ring domain protein ;  the core is associated with one or more additional proteins that confer substrate specificity .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleosome ,  a complex comprised of dna wound around a multisubunit core and associated proteins ,  which forms the primary packing unit of dna into higher order structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mating type switching ,  the conversion of a single - cell organism from one mating type to another by the precise replacement of a dna sequence at the expressed mating type locus with a copy of a sequence from a donor locus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mating type switching .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mating type switching .
the assembly of dna ,  histone proteins ,  other associated proteins ,  and sometimes rna ,  into chromatin structure ,  beginning with the formation of the basic unit ,  the nucleosome ,  followed by organization of the nucleosomes into higher order structures ,  ultimately giving rise to a complex organization of specific domains within the nucleus .
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the fungal - type cell wall .
the assembly of chromatin into heterochromatin ,  a compact and highly condensed form that is often ,  but not always ,  transcriptionally silent .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding the cell tip .
any process that activates or increases the rate of progression from anaphase / telophase  ( high mitotic cdk activity )  to g1  ( low mitotic cdk activity )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent ,  or location of dna - templated transcription termination ,  the process in which transcription is completed ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
the cell cycle process in which the contractile ring is maintained in response to the cytokinesis checkpoint ;  that is when cytokinesis is delayed awaiting completion of nuclear division or the correct formation of cytokinetic structures .
the mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that delays or arrests cell cycle progression until cells have reached a critical size .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that monitors cell size ,  and negatively regulates cell cycle progression between g1 and s phase until a critical size is reached .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that monitors cell size ,  and negatively regulates cell cycle progression between g2 and m phase until a critical size is reached .
a cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from g2 to m phase in the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that slows dna synthesis in response to dna damage by the prevention of new origin firing and the stabilization of slow replication fork progression .
a cell cycle checkpoint that originates from the mitotic or meiotic spindle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of membrane rafts ,  small  ( 10 - 200 nm )  ,  heterogeneous ,  highly dynamic ,  sterol -  and sphingolipid - enriched membrane domains that compartmentalize cellular processes .
the process that establishes the spatial arrangement of membrane rafts within a cellular membrane .
a process that impedes the progress of the dna replication fork at natural replication fork pausing sites within the eukaryotic rdna repeat spacer .
the attachment of a cell to the underlying substrate via adhesion molecules .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving wybutosine ,  3h - imidazo [ 1 , 2 - alpha ] purine - 7 - butanoic acid ,  4 , 9 - dihydro -  alpha -  [  ( methoxycarbonyl ) amino ]  -  4 , 6 - dimethyl - 9 - oxo -  3 - beta - d - ribofuranosyl methyl ester ,  a modified nucleoside found in some trna molecules .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of wybutosine ,  3h - imidazo [ 1 , 2 - alpha ] purine - 7 - butanoic acid ,  4 , 9 - dihydro -  alpha -  [  ( methoxycarbonyl ) amino ]  -  4 , 6 - dimethyl - 9 - oxo -  3 - beta - d - ribofuranosyl methyl ester ,  a modified nucleoside found in some trna molecules .
the cell cycle process in which the sister centromeres of one chromosome attach to microtubules that emanate from the same spindle pole ,  which ensures that homologous maternal and paternal chromosomes are pulled in opposite directions at anaphase of meiosis i .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with replication fork barriers ,  sites that inhibit the progress of replication forks .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a primary cell septum following nuclear division .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a late endosome .
the directed movement of any of the vitamin b6 compounds  -  -  pyridoxal ,  pyridoxamine and pyridoxine and the active form ,  pyridoxal phosphate  -  -  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of pyridoxine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
heterochromatic regions of the chromosome found at silenced mating - type loci .
any process that affects the rate ,  extent or location of chromatin silencing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin silencing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin silencing .
any process that affects the rate ,  extent or location of chromatin silencing at telomeres .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin silencing at telomeres .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin silencing at telomeres .
a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own residues .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own residues .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own residues .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the nucleus and form the nuclear envelope ;  excludes the intermembrane space .
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondrion and form the mitochondrial envelope .
a double membrane structure enclosing an organelle ,  including two lipid bilayers and the region between them .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
a multilayered structure surrounding all or part of a cell ;  encompasses one or more lipid bilayers ,  and may include a cell wall layer ;  also includes the space between layers .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
a compartment that consists of a lumen and an enclosing membrane ,  and is part of an organelle .
any of the thin ,  flattened membrane - bounded compartments that form the central portion of the golgi complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of contraction of the actomyosin ring involved in cytokinesis that takes place as part of a cell cycle .
the series of molecular signals that bring about the relay ,  amplification or dampening of a signal generated in response to a cue ,  such as starvation or pheromone exposure ,  in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mitochondrial dna .
the assembly of a bleb ,  a cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion .
a process in which a protein or protein complex is maintained in a specific location in the cell cortex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of deoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endodeoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of nuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of deoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of deoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of endodeoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endodeoxyribonuclease activity ,  the hydrolysis of ester linkages within deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the horsetail - astral array ,  a structure of astral microtubules that emanates from the spindle pole body during meiosis .
the process in which the nascent membrane forms at the meiotic outer plaque and grows until closure occurs and forespores ,  or prospores ,  are formed .
a cell part that is composed of the eisosome membrane or mcc domain ,  a furrow - like plasma membrane sub - domain and associated integral transmembrane proteins ,  and the proteins  ( eisosome filaments )  that form a scaffolding lattice on the cytoplasmic face .
the assembly of a sterol - rich region of the plasma membrane at the cell surface overlying the contractile ring .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with double - stranded dna containing a g / t mispair .
any process that initiates the activity of an inactive protein kinase .
the eventual plane of cell division  ( also known as cell cleavage or cytokinesis )  in a dividing cell .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of septins and associated proteins .
a contractile ring ,  i .e .
any of a series of structures composed of septins and septin - associated proteins localized to the cleavage plane which are involved in cytokinesis .
a tight ring - shaped structure that forms in the division plane at the site of cytokinesis in a prospore ;  composed of septins as well as septin - associated proteins .
a septin ring ,  i .e .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a small conjugating protein such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising septin complexes and their associated proteins .
the process in which a contractile ring is assembled and / or maintained in a specific location ,  in the context of cytokinesis that takes place as part of a cell cycle .
the process in which a contractile ring is assembled in a specific location as part of a process of cell cycle cytokinesis .
any process involved in mediating the movement of discrete segments of dna between nonhomologous sites .
any process involved in a type of transpositional recombination which occurs via an rna intermediate .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of telomeres ,  terminal regions of a linear chromosome that include the telomeric dna repeats and associated proteins .
a cellular process that results in the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a telomere at a non - telomeric double - stranded dna end .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process that affects and monitors the activity of telomeric proteins and the length of telomeric dna .
the joining of two or more lipid bilayer membranes that surround cells ,  that contributes to cytogamy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of actin filament bundles .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of actin filament bundles .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of actin filament bundles .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a methyl group is covalently attached to a molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with phosphatidylinositol - 3 - phosphate ,  a derivative of phosphatidylinositol in which the inositol ring is phosphorylated at the 3' position .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of creating protein polymers .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of dna - dependent dna replication .
the directed movement of l - serine ,  2 - amino - 3 - hydroxypropanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with oxidized residues in dna .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with oxidized purine residues in dna .
the directed movement of lipids within cells .
the directed movement of sterols within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sterols within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
the process in which a transformation is induced in the geometry of a dna double helix ,  resulting in a change in twist ,  writhe ,  or both ,  but with no change in linking number .
any process that modulates the activity of a transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a transporter .
any process that modulates the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that modulates the activity of a sodium:hydrogen antiporter ,  which catalyzes the reaction: na +  ( out )   +  h +  ( in )  = na +  ( in )   +  h +  ( out )  .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a sodium:hydrogen antiporter ,  which catalyzes the reaction: na +  ( out )   +  h +  ( in )  = na +  ( in )   +  h +  ( out )  .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a sodium:hydrogen antiporter ,  which catalyzes the reaction: na +  ( out )   +  h +  ( in )  = na +  ( in )   +  h +  ( out )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mismatch repair .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mismatch repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mismatch repair .
an assembly of actin filaments that are on the same axis but may be oriented with the same or opposite polarities and may be packed with different levels of tightness .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ergosterol .
a protein modification process in which one or more groups of a small protein ,  such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein ,  are covalently attached to a target protein .
catalysis of the reaction: alpha - maltose  +  h2o = 2 alpha - d - glucose .
catalysis of the removal of a methyl group from a substrate .
catalysis of the removal of a methyl group from a histone .
catalysis of the reaction: histone h3 n6 - methyl - l - lysine  ( position 9 )   +  alpha - ketoglutarate  +  o2 = succinate  +  co2  +  formaldehyde  +  lysine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oligomerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oligomerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oligomerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell ,  and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell ,  and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the golgi apparatus of a cell or between the golgi and its surroundings .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the endoplasmic reticulum of a cell or between the endoplasmic reticulum and its surroundings .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two single - celled organisms .
a cellular process that is involved in cytokinesis  ( the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells )  .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
the process in which interchain hydrogen bonds between two strands of dna are broken or 'melted' ,  generating a region of unpaired single strands .
the directed movement of substances from endosomes to lysosomes or vacuoles by a pathway in which molecules are sorted into multivesicular bodies ,  which then fuse with the target compartment .
the directed movement of substances from endosomes to vacuoles by a pathway in which molecules are sorted into multivesicular bodies ,  which then fuse with the vacuole .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a phosphoprotein phosphatase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a phosphoprotein phosphatase .
a process that modulates the size of a cellular component .
a cortical network of highly dynamic tubules that are juxtaposed to the plasma membrane and undergo ring closure and tubule - branching movements .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a protein in a mitochondrion .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a ribonucleoside ,  a compound consisting of a purine or pyrimidine nitrogenous base linked to ribose .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a purine ribonucleoside ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to ribose .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a ribonucleotide ,  any compound consisting of a ribonucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a purine ribonucleotide ,  any compound consisting of a purine ribonucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an adenyl ribonucleotide ,  any compound consisting of adenosine esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a guanyl ribonucleotide ,  any compound consisting of guanosine esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose moiety .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
any process that activates or increases the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by a dna - dependent rna polymerase .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by a dna - dependent rna polymerase .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by a dna - dependent rna polymerase .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  ( cooh )  group or anion  ( coo -  )  .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of karyogamy ,  the creation of a single nucleus from multiple nuclei as a result of membrane fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of polysaccharides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the fusion of two vacuole membranes to form a single vacuole .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a series of molecular signals from the endoplasmic reticulum to the nucleus generated as a consequence of decreased levels of one or more sterols  ( and in some yeast ,  changes in oxygen levels )  and which proceeds through activation of a sterol response element binding transcription factor  ( srebp )  to result in up - regulation of target gene transcription .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a sterol ,  any steroid containing a hydroxy group in the 3 position ,  closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cytokinetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of division septum formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides ,  catalyzed by rna polymerase ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton .
the disaggregation of a protein - containing macromolecular complex into its constituent components .
the disaggregation of a protein - rna complex into its constituent components .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
any macromolecular complex composed of two or more polypeptide subunits ,  which may or may not be identical .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and dna molecules .
any process that modulates the process in which a cell wall is synthesized ,  aggregates ,  and bonds together .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in a cell .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a mitochondrial respiratory chain complex .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the phosphorylation of peptidyl - serine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
the modification of histone h3 by the removal of a methyl group from lysine at position 9 of the histone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of a ubiquitin group to a histone protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of a ubiquitin group to a histone protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of a ubiquitin group to a histone protein .
a cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after meiosis ,  resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells .
the directed movement of iron ions from outside of a cell into the cytoplasmic compartment .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of sumo groups to a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of sumo groups to a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of sumo groups to a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways leading to the breakdown of amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways leading to the breakdown of amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways leading to the breakdown of amines .
the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the dna - dependent dna replication that occurs in the nucleus of eukaryotic organisms as part of the cell cycle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a cell cycle checkpoint that ensures accurate chromosome replication and segregation by preventing progression through a meiotic cell cycle until conditions are suitable for the cell to proceed to the next stage .
a cell cycle checkpoint that acts during a mitotic cell cycle and prevents the initiation of mitosis until dna replication is complete ,  thereby ensuring that progeny inherit a full complement of the genome .
a dna integrity checkpoint that acts to inhibit the g2 / m1 transition of the meiotic cell cycle and prevents the initiation of nuclear division until dna replication is complete .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a meiotic cell cycle until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell .
the modification of histone h2b by addition of ubiquitin groups .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the hydrolysis of an acetyl group or groups from a protein substrate .
any process in which a gamma - tubulin complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in the cytosol .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in the endoplasmic reticulum .
the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
the addition of a galactose unit to a protein amino acid in the endoplasmic reticulum .
the addition of a galactose unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
the addition of a galactose unit to a protein amino acid in the cytosol .
a multiprotein complex that functions as a mitotic checkpoint inhibitor of the anaphase - promoting complex / cyclosome  ( apc / c )  .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that forms during meiotic prophase in a fixed position in the horsetail nucleus ;  contains mei2 and meirna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ;  this reaction drives the unwinding of a dna / rna duplex ,  i .e .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ;  this reaction drives the unwinding of a dna / rna duplex in the direction 5' to 3' .
a process that results in the endonucleolytic cleavage of the damaged strand of dna .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of polysaccharides ,  polymers of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
catalysis of the reaction: 5' - amp - dna  +  h2o = amp  +  dna ;  nucleophilic release of a covalently linked adenylate residue from a dna strand ,  leaving a 5' phosphate terminus .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  1d - myo - inositol 5 - diphosphate pentakisphosphate = adp  +  1d - myo - inositol bisdiphosphate tetrakisphosphate .
any process that modulates the activity of the enzyme nad ( p ) h oxidase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme nad ( p ) h oxidase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of the enzyme nad ( p ) h oxidase .
catalysis of the endonucleolytic cleavage near pyrimidine dimers to products with 5' - phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving box h / aca type small nucleolar rna .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the removal of 8 - oxo - 7 , 8 - dihydroguanine bases by cleaving the n - c1' glycosidic bond between the oxidized purine and the deoxyribose sugar .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of dna from deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template and a 3'hydroxyl group .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of rna from ribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template ,  via extension of the 3' - end .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a stress granule .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the golgi apparatus .
the formation of nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenp - a to form centromeric chromatin .
the process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome become associated with each other during s phase .
the process in which the association between sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome is maintained as chromosomes condense ,  attach to the spindle in a bipolar orientation ,  and congress to the metaphase plate .
the process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome become joined along the entire length of the chromosome during s phase during a mitotic cell cycle .
the process in which the association between sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome is maintained as chromosomes condense ,  attach to the spindle in a bipolar orientation ,  and congress to the metaphase plate during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the extent to which the association between sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome is maintained .
any process that decreases the extent to which the association between sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome is maintained .
any process that increases the extent to which the association between sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome is maintained .
any process that modulates the extent to which the association between sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome is maintained during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that decreases the extent to which the association between sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome is maintained during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the extent to which the association between sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome is maintained during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the acetylation of an amino acid residue of a peptide or protein ,  according to the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  peptide = coa  +  n - acetylpeptide .
the process in which a carbohydrate is transported across a membrane .
a process in which an ion is transported across a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the addition a sulfur atom to a nucleotide in a trna molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides ,  catalyzed by rna polymerase ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription elongation ,  the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation and promoter clearance by the addition of ribonucleotides ,  catalyzed by rna polymerase ii .
a dna - directed rna polymerase complex located in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the formation of spores derived from the products of meiosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore formation from the products of meiosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ascospore formation .
the actin nucleation process in which actin monomers combine to form a new branch on the side of an existing actin filament ;  mediated by the arp2 / 3 protein complex and its interaction with other proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin nucleation mediated by the arp2 / 3 complex and interacting proteins .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin nucleation mediated by the arp2 / 3 complex and interacting proteins .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single or multimeric rnas into the correct tertiary structure .
catalysis of the removal of a 5' terminal pyrophosphate from the 5' - triphosphate end of an rna ,  leaving a 5' - monophosphate end .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a lipid particle .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the external part of the cell wall and / or plasma membrane .
any process in which a telomere is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the process in which a telomere is maintained in a specific location at the nuclear periphery .
the portion of the nuclear lumen proximal to the inner nuclear membrane .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna - dependent transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of the mrna transcript body that occurs when the 5' end is not protected by a 5' - cap ;  degradation proceeds in the 5' to 3' direction .
catalysis of the reaction: p1 - p6 - bis ( 5' - adenosyl )  hexaphosphate  +  h2o = amp  +  adenosine 5' - pentaphosphate .
any process in which a microtubule is maintained in a specific location in a cell .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ;  this reaction drives the unwinding of an rna helix in the direction 3' to 5' .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a 90s preribosome .
any process that results in the conversion of one or more primary non - coding rna  ( ncrna )  transcripts into one or more mature ncrna molecules .
any process involved in forming the mature 5' end of a non - coding rna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an snrna molecule .
the process in which a solute is transported from one side of the vacuolar membrane to the other .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the phagophore assembly site  ( pas )  .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the kinetochore .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a specific location on a chromosome .
a process in which a protein transports or maintains the localization of another protein to the nucleus .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and centromeric dna molecules to form a centromeric protein - dna complex .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a protein complex ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
a protein complex localization process that takes place at the cellular level ;  as a result ,  a protein complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell .
any process in which a microtubule is maintained in a specific location in a cell by attachment to a spindle pole body .
the directed movement of glutathione ,  the tripeptide glutamylcysteinylglycine ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving non - coding rna transcripts  ( ncrnas )  .
the formation or destruction of chromatin structures on newly replicated dna ,  coupled to strand elongation .
the formation or destruction of chromatin structures ,  occurring outside the context of dna replication .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of one or more nucleosomes .
a process in which an iron ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions  ( fe )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions  ( fe )  from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of iron ions from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the modification of histone h4 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 20 of the histone .
the modification of histone h4 by addition of one methyl group to lysine at position 20 of the histone .
the modification of histone h4 by addition of two methyl groups to lysine at position 20 of the histone .
the modification of histone h4 by addition of three methyl groups to lysine at position 20 of the histone .
a process in which glutathione is transported across a membrane .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary box h / aca type small nucleolar rna  ( snorna )  transcript into a mature box h / aca snorna .
the modification of a histone by addition of one or more methyl groups to a lysine residue .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the peptide cleavage of mitochondrial proteins ,  including cleavage contributing to their import .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a histone in which a residue has been modified by methylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to a histone protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to a histone protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to a histone protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any inositol - containing glycerophospholipid ,  i .e .
the proteolytic release of a transcriptionally active sterol regulatory element binding protein  ( srebp )  from intracellular membranes ,  freeing it to move to the nucleus to upregulate transcription of target genes ,  in response to altered levels of one or more lipids .
any process that modulates the activity of glutamate - cysteine ligase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme glutamate - cysteine ligase .
any process that activates or increases the activity of glutamate - cysteine ligase ,  typically by lowering its sensitivity to inhibition by glutathione and by increasing its affinity for glutamate .
the addition of a methyl group onto a nitrogen atom of an arginine residue in a protein .
the addition of a methyl group onto a terminal nitrogen  ( omega nitrogen )  atom of an arginine residue in a protein .
catalysis of the transfer of a glucosyl group from udp - glucose to an acceptor molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a protein .
any process the stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a protein .
any process the stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a protein .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of mononucleotides from a free 5' terminus of a dna molecule .
the process in which heme ,  any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring ,  is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a microtubule .
the modification of histones by addition of a phosphate group to a serine residue .
the modification of histones by addition of a phosphate group to a threonine residue .
the directed movement of copper cation across a membrane .
any process in which a protein is maintained in the endoplasmic reticulum and prevented from moving elsewhere .
the directed movement of a tripeptide across a membrane by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of nickel  ( ni )  cations across a membrane by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a vitamin is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of proline ,  pyrrolidine - 2 - carboxylic acid ,  across a membrane by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin binding .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin binding .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location within the extracellular region .
the removal of an acyl group ,  any group or radical of the form rco -  where r is an organic group ,  from a protein amino acid .
the disaggregation of a stress granule into its constituent protein and rna parts .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a purine ribonucleoside triphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with triphosphate on the sugar .
the process in which an oligopeptide is transported across a membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a mitochondrial protein .
a process in which a sodium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a non - membranous macromolecular complex containing proteins and translationally silenced mrnas .
a dna recombination process that results in the unidirectional transfer of genetic material from a donor sequence to a highly homologous acceptor .
a gene conversion process in which a segment of more than 1000 base pairs is transferred from the donor to the acceptor .
a dna recombination process that results in the exchange of an equal amount of genetic material between highly homologous dna molecules .
the region at either end of the longest axis of a cylindrical or elongated cell ,  where polarized growth occurs .
a cell tip at which no growth takes place .
a region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a microsatellite ,  a repeat_region in dna containing repeat units  ( 2 to 4 base pairs )  that is repeated multiple times in tandem .
the microtubule organizing center that forms as part of the meiotic cell cycle ;  functionally homologous to the animal cell centrosome .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an endosome .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from the minus end of a microtubule .
advancement of the cleavage furrow from the outside of the cell inward towards the center of the cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a small molecule ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of two methyl groups to lysine at position 9 of the histone .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of three methyl groups to lysine at position 9 of the histone .
a cellular protein localization process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a linear element .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
the process in which the contractile ring is maintained ,  typically in response to an internal or external cue .
the process of an actomyosin ring getting smaller in diameter .
the process in which a contractile ring is assembled and / or maintained in a specific location .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which the mitotic cell cycle is halted during g2 phase as a result of deprivation of glucose .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of cadmium ions into the vacuole .
the sequence of enzymatic reactions by which a cap structure is added to the 5' end of nascent rna polymerase transcripts .
hypermethylation of the 7 -  ( mono ) methylguanosine  ( m ( 7 ) g )  cap structure at the 2' position of the guanosine residue to convert a mono - methylated cap to a 2 , 2 , 7 - trimethylguanosine cap structure .
the addition of a methyl group to the n7 atom in the base portion of a guanine nucleotide residue in an rna molecule .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as a result of a deprivation of nitrogen .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a saga complex ,  a saga - type histone acetyltransferase complex that contains spt8  ( in budding yeast )  or a homolog thereof .
a filamentous cortical structure formed ,  in s . pombe ,  by the eisosome component pil1 .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the non - sexual aggregation of single - celled organisms mediated by the binding of cell wall proteins on one cell to galactose residues on the other .
the non - sexual aggregation of single - celled organisms mediated by the binding of cell wall proteins on one cell to mannose residues on the other .
catalysis of the reaction: glutathione  +  h2o = l - cysteinylglycine  +  l - glutamate .
the directed movement of sodium ions from inside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure within a nucleoid .
a protein - dna complex that forms at the origin of replication during the initial step of dna replication and allows the origin to become competent ,  or 'licensed' ,  for replication .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the pre - replicative complex ,  a protein - dna complex that forms at the origin of replication during the initial step of dna replication and allows the origin to become competent ,  or 'licensed' ,  for replication .
a ring - shaped structure that forms at the medial cortex of a symmetrically dividing cell at the onset of cytokinesis ;  composed of members of the conserved family of filament forming proteins called septins as well as septin - associated proteins .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ,  which promotes unfolding of protein substrates ,  and channel opening of the core proteasome .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  h2o  +  oxaloacetate = citrate  +  coa .
cleavage of the 5' - cap of a nuclear - transcribed mrna that has been modified by the enzymatic addition of a sequence of uridylyl residues  ( polyuridylation )  at the 3' end .
a ribonucleoprotein granule located in the cytoplasm .
the protein catabolic pathway which targets endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  - resident proteins for degradation by the cytoplasmic proteasome .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of the mitotic spindle to a specific location in the cell occurs .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division ,  the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells ,  one or more of which usually function as gametes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression ;  the process is mitotically or meiotically heritable ,  or is stably self - propagated in the cytoplasm of a resting cell ,  and does not entail a change in dna sequence .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within snrna ,  resulting in a change in the properties of the snrna .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  histone = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  methyl - histone .
the addition of a galactose molecule to a protein amino acid .
the cell cycle process in which double - strand breaks are generated at defined hotspots throughout the genome during meiosis i .
the fusion of two vacuole membranes to form a single vacuole .
the directed movement of membrane - bounded vesicles from endosomes back to the trans - golgi network where they are recycled for further rounds of transport .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the covalently attached nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the covalently attached nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a telomere ,  a specific structure at the end of a linear chromosome required for the integrity and maintenance of the end .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation .
the continuous network of membranes encompassing the nuclear outer membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of ketones ,  a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a spore wall ;  a spore wall is the specialized envelope lying outside the cell membrane of a spore .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of ribosome subunits ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of the mature ribosome and of its subunits .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a large ribosomal subunit ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a small ribosomal subunit ;  includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
the conversion of dna - damage induced single - stranded gaps into large molecular weight dna after replication by using a specialized dna polymerase or replication complex to insert a defined nucleotide across the lesion .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with peptides ,  any of a group of organic compounds comprising two or more amino acids linked by peptide bonds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of movement of proteins from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of proteins from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a histone ,  any of a group of water - soluble proteins found in association with the dna of eukaroytic chromosomes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  e .g .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cell wall .
a hexameric protein complex required for the initiation and regulation of dna replication .
catalysis of the reaction: rpo - r'  +  h2o = rpooh  +  r'h .
cytoplasmic organelles ,  spherical or oval in shape ,  that are bounded by a single membrane and contain oxidative enzymes ,  especially those utilizing hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the region between the inner  ( cytoplasmic )  and outer membrane  ( gram - negative bacteria )  or cytoplasmic membrane and cell wall  ( fungi and gram - positive bacteria )  .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other ,  driven by the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate .
primary active transporter of a solute across a membrane ,  via the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ,  to directly drive the transport of a substance across a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the region of a mitochondrion to which the dna is confined .
a process in which planktonically growing microorganisms grow at a liquid - air interface or on a solid substrate under the flow of a liquid and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate matrix formation ,  resulting in a change in the organisms' growth rate and gene transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  a potentially harmful byproduct of aerobic cellular respiration which can cause damage to dna .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur ,  the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur .
a cell or part of the cell that constitutes an early developmental stage of a spore ,  a small reproductive body that is highly resistant to desiccation and heat and is capable of growing into a new organism ,  produced especially by certain bacteria ,  fungi ,  algae ,  and nonflowering plants .
an immature spore undergoing development .
the series of events required to receive a stimulus indicating dna damage has occurred and convert it to a molecular signal .
a cascade of processes induced by the detection of dna damage within a cell .
the transfer of electrons through a series of electron donors and acceptors ,  generating energy that is ultimately used for synthesis of atp .
the transfer of electrons through a series of electron donors and acceptors ,  generating energy that is ultimately used for synthesis of atp in the plasma membrane .
the transfer of electrons through a series of electron donors and acceptors ,  generating energy that is ultimately used for synthesis of atp ,  as it occurs in the mitochondrial inner membrane or chloroplast thylakoid membrane .
the transport of protons across a mitochondrial membrane to generate an electrochemical gradient  ( proton - motive force )  that powers atp synthesis .
the process in which the 3' end of a pre - trna molecule is converted to that of a mature trna .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  histone h3 l - lysine  ( position 4 )  = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  histone h3 n6 - methyl - l - lysine  ( position 4 )  .
polarized growth from one end of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the vitamin b6 compounds: pyridoxal ,  pyridoxamine and pyridoxine and the active form ,  pyridoxal phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any of the vitamin b6 compounds ;  pyridoxal ,  pyridoxamine and pyridoxine and the active form ,  pyridoxal phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyridoxal phosphate ,  pyridoxal phosphorylated at the hydroxymethyl group of c - 5 ,  the active form of vitamin b6 .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of pyridoxal phosphate ,  pyridoxal phosphorylated at the hydroxymethyl group of c - 5 ,  the active form of vitamin b6 .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving antisense rna ,  an rna molecule complementary in sequence to another rna or dna molecule ,  which ,  by binding the latter ,  acts to inhibit its function and / or completion of synthesis .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a tripeptide ,  a compound containing three amino acids linked together by peptide bonds ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
any process involved in sustaining the fidelity and copy number of rdna repeats .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any complex of rna and protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any part of a ribosome .
the modification of an amino acid to an active form ,  for incorporation into a peptide ,  protein or other macromolecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which the various amino acids become bonded to their corresponding trnas .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of peptides ,  compounds of 2 or more  ( but usually less than 100 )  amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
dynamic structural changes to eukaryotic chromatin that require energy from the hydrolysis of atp ,  ranging from local changes necessary for transcriptional regulation to global changes necessary for chromosome segregation ,  mediated by atp - dependent chromatin - remodelling factors .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with single - stranded telomere - associated dna .
the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the meiotic spindle ,  during meiosis i .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the rate of gtp hydrolysis by a gtpase .
the directed movement of amino acids into a cell or organelle .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with replication fork barriers found in rdna spacers ,  sites that inhibit replication forks in the direction opposite to rdna transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication by impeding the progress of the dna replication fork .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with ubiquitin ,  a protein that when covalently bound to other cellular proteins marks them for proteolytic degradation .
removal of the okazaki rna primer from the lagging strand of replicating dna ,  by a combination of the actions of dna polymerase ,  dna helicase and an endonuclease .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ;  drives the unwinding of the dna helix in the direction 3' to 5' .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate ;  drives the unwinding of the dna helix in the direction 5' to 3' .
any process in which proteins and protein complexes involved in translation are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary small nucleolar rna  ( snorna )  transcript into a mature snorna .
the synthesis of dna that contributes to the process of double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
the synthesis of dna that contributes to the process of double - strand break repair via single - strand annealing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in the apoptotic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds ,  initiated by the covalent attachment of ubiquitin ,  and mediated by the proteasome .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide covalently tagged with ubiquitin ,  via the multivesicular body  ( mvb )  sorting pathway ;  ubiquitin - tagged proteins are sorted into mvbs ,  and delivered to a lysosome / vacuole for degradation .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with ions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with anions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms with a net negative charge .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with cations ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms with a net positive charge .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic acid ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex disassembly ,  the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein complex assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of potassium ions  ( k +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of potassium ions  ( k +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of potassium ions  ( k +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that activates or increases the activity of a cysteine - type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the activity of a cysteine - type endopeptidase involved in apoptosis .
the process of directing proteins towards the vacuole that contributes to protein catabolism via the multivesicular body  ( mvb )  pathway .
the apex of the mating projection in unicellular fungi exposed to mating pheromone ;  site of polarized growth .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the map kinase  ( mapk )  cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapkkk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapk cascade .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
the covalent attachment of a methyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid ;  an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration ,  the enzymatic release of energy from organic compounds .
any process that modulates the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fermentation ,  the anaerobic enzymatic conversion of organic compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  to other compounds ,  especially to ethyl alcohol ,  resulting in energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and the processes involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  carried out by individual cells .
the accumulation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  resulting in the deposition or aggregation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna splicing ,  the process of removing sections of the primary rna transcript to remove sequences not present in the mature form of the rna and joining the remaining sections to form the mature form of the rna .
the replacement ,  within chromatin ,  of resident histones or histone subunits with alternative ,  sometimes variant ,  histones or subunits .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together a protein or a protein complex with a membrane ,  or bringing together two membranes ,  either via membrane lipid binding or by interacting with a membrane protein ,  to establish or maintain the localization of the protein ,  protein complex or organelle .
the process of restoring mitochondrial dna after damage .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with adp ,  adenosine 5' - diphosphate .
the addition of an acyl group ,  any group or radical of the form rco -  where r is an organic group ,  to a protein amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a gtpase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
modulation of the frequency ,  rate or extent of translation as a result of a stimulus indicating the organism is under stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of translation as a result of oxidative stress ,  a state often resulting from exposure to high levels of reactive oxygen species ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the frequency ,  rate or extent of translation as a result of a stimulus indicating an increase or decrease in the concentration of solutes outside the organism or cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
any process involved in sustaining the fidelity and copy number of dna repeat elements .
transport of substances into ,  out of or within a peroxisome ,  a small ,  membrane - bounded organelle that uses dioxygen  ( o2 )  to oxidize organic molecules .
the y - shaped region of a nuclear replicating dna molecule ,  resulting from the separation of the dna strands and in which the synthesis of new strands takes place .
the y - shaped region of a cytoplasmic replicating dna molecule ,  resulting from the separation of the dna strands and in which the synthesis of new strands takes place .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
the disaggregation of a protein complex into its constituent components ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of a non - coding rna molecule .
the enzymatic addition of a sequence of adenylyl residues at the 3' end of an rna molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  initiated by covalent modification of the target molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphoprotein phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphate from a phosphoprotein .
the attachment of a cell to a solid substrate ,  via cell adhesion molecules ,  contributing to the formation of a biofilm .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glyceraldehyde 3 - phosphate  +  phosphate  +  nad ( p )  +  = 3 - phospho - d - glyceroyl phosphate  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
catalysis of the reaction: dna containing 7 - methylguanine  +  h2o = dna with abasic site  +  7 - methylguanine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of the transcript body of a nuclear - transcribed mrna that occurs when the ends are not protected by the 3' - poly ( a )  tail .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein complex .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
the formation of spores derived from the products of meiosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of cellular spores derived from the products of meiosis .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of cellular spores derived from the products of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of cellular spores derived from the products of meiosis .
the organization process that preserves a cellular component in a stable functional or structural state .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group .
the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 9 of the histone .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 18 of the histone .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 4 of the histone .
the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 5 of the histone .
the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 8 of the histone .
the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 12 of the histone .
the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 16 of the histone .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an phosphate group to a serine residue at position 10 of the histone .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucans ,  polysaccharides consisting only of glucose residues .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a membrane .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom ,  carried out at the level of an individual cell .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 14 of the histone .
the process in which a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of polysaccharides ,  polymers of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides ,  polymers of more than 10 monosaccharide residues joined by glycosidic linkages ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a macromolecule ,  any large molecule including proteins ,  nucleic acids and carbohydrates ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
a process that results in the breakdown of the cell wall .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  an actin cortical patch .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the cytoskeleton .
either of the two subunits of a ribosome: the ribosomal large subunit or the ribosomal small subunit .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level and results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an actin cortical patch ,  a discrete actin - containing structure found at the plasma membrane in cells ,  at sites of endocytosis .
a process of actin cortical patch localization in which the patch moves from the cell surface to the inside of the cell .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of two methyl groups to lysine at position 4 of the histone .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
the microtubule organizing center that forms as part of the mitotic cell cycle ;  functionally homologous to the animal cell centrosome .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level which involves another organism of the same or different species .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next cell cycle phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next meiotic cell cycle phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell commits to entering the next mitotic cell cycle phase .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression through the cell cycle in response to dna damage .
a mitotic cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a meiotic cell cycle process that controls cell cycle progression in response to changes in dna structure by monitoring the integrity of the dna .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a meiotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and that the chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase as part of the cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase as part of meiosis .
the dna - dependent dna replication that takes place as part of the cell cycle .
a form of autophagy ,  by which damaged or non - essential parts of the nucleus ,  or even an entire nucleus is degraded .
the process by which g - quadruplex  ( also known as g4 )  dna ,  which is a four - stranded dna structure held together by guanine base pairing ,  is unwound or 'melted' .
a cell cycle checkpoint that detects and negatively regulates progression from g2 to m phase as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the process in which a telomere is maintained in a specific location at the nuclear periphery ,  as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an actomyosin contractile ring .
a specialized resting state that cells enter in response to cues from the cell's environment .
the cell cycle process by which a cell in g2 phase commits to m phase .
the cell cycle process by which a cell in g1 phase commits to s phase .
the cell cycle phase which begins at the end of meiosis i cytokinesis and ends when meiosis ii prophase begins .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a macromolecular complex .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that detects a defect in cytokinesis and prevents further rounds of nuclear division until cytokinesis is completed .
repair of a dsb made between two repeated sequences oriented in the same direction occurs primarily by the single strand annealing pathway .
a dna metabolic process that prevents or corrects errors to ensure that dna is replicated accurately .
the initial step in the formation of an actin filament ,  in which actin monomers combine to form a new filament .
a transcription regulation process in which the presence of one carbon source leads to a decrease in the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of transcription of specific genes involved in the metabolism of other carbon sources .
a transcription regulation process in which the presence of glucose leads to a decrease in the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of transcription of specific genes involved in the metabolism of other carbon sources .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycerolipids ,  any lipid with a glycerol backbone .
the mitotic cell cycle phase transition whose occurrence commits the cell from the g0 quiescent state to the g1 phase .
the joining of the lipid bilayer membrane that surround a cell with that of another cell ,  producing a single cell .
the process of directing proteins towards the endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  using signals contained within the protein .
covalent attachment of the ubiquitin - like protein nedd8  ( rub1 )  to another protein .
the directed movement of azoles ,  heterocyclic compounds found in many biologically important substances ,  across a lipid bilayer ,  across a membrane .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of recombination during meiosis .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during m phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which the dynamic reorganization of telomeres occurs in early meiotic prophase ,  during which meiotic chromosome ends are gathered in a bouquet arrangement at the inner surface of the nuclear envelope proximal to the spindle pole body .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the first division of the meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and randomly apportioned to two sets during the second division of the meiotic cell cycle .
catalysis of the sequential cleavage of nucleotides  ( such as mononucleotides or dinucleotides )  from a free 5' terminus of a single - stranded dna molecule .
the commitment of cells to specific cell fates and their capacity to differentiate into particular kinds of cells .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 l - glutamate  +  nad ( p )  +  = l - glutamine  +  2 - oxoglutarate  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
any molecular function involved in the initiation ,  activation ,  perpetuation ,  repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of external structures that lie outside the plasma membrane and surround the entire cell .
a part of the respiratory chain ,  containing the 13 polypeptide subunits of cytochrome c oxidase ,  including cytochrome a and cytochrome a3 .
a part of the respiratory chain located in the plasma membrane ,  containing the 13 polypeptide subunits of cytochrome c oxidase ,  including cytochrome a and cytochrome a3 .
the directed movement of substances from late endosomes to the vacuole .
the enzymatic release of energy from inorganic and organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which either requires oxygen  ( aerobic respiration )  or does not  ( anaerobic respiration )  .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
catalysis of the condensation of isopentenyl diphosphate and farnesyl diphosphate in the cis - configuration to form dehydrodolichyl diphosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna or circrna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with or without the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of adenylate cyclase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin assembly or disassembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin assembly or disassembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any epigenetic process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of gene expression .
any epigenetic process that activates or increases the rate of gene expression .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis ,  triggered by the activation of the anaphase promoting complex by cdc20 / sleepy homolog which results in the degradation of securin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid cohesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid cohesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytolysis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase i .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase iii .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of translational initiation .
any process that inhibits or decreases the rate of dna recombination during mitosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination during mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine bases .
a transcription regulation process in which the presence of one carbon source leads to the modulation of the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of transcription of specific genes involved in the metabolism of other carbon sources .
any process involving glucose that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent or transcription .
any process involving pheromones that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent or transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
catalysis of the reaction: phospholipid  +  1 , 2 - diacylglycerol = lysophospholipid  +  triacylglycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving adp ,  adenosine 5' - diphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving atp ,  adenosine triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dttp ,  deoxyribosylthymine triphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving adenine ,  6 - aminopurine ,  one of the five main bases found in nucleic acids and a component of numerous important derivatives of its corresponding ribonucleoside ,  adenosine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of adenine ,  6 - aminopurine ,  one of the five main bases found in nucleic acids and a component of numerous important derivatives of its corresponding ribonucleoside ,  adenosine .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleobase ,  a nitrogenous base that is a constituent of a nucleic acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aldehydes ,  any organic compound with the formula r - ch=o .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aldehydes ,  any organic compound with the formula r - ch=o .
the directed movement of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides used in extracellular structures .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of deoxyribose phosphate ,  the phosphorylated sugar 2 - deoxy - erythro - pentose .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
catalysis of the reaction: 3' - phosphopolynucleotide  +  h2o = a polynucleotide  +  phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of neutral lipids ,  lipids only soluble in solvents of very low polarity .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of acylglycerol ,  any mono -  ,  di -  or triester of glycerol with  ( one or more )  fatty acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerolipids ,  any lipid with a glycerol backbone .
catalysis of the transfer of a glucosyl group to an acceptor molecule ,  typically another carbohydrate or a lipid .
catalysis of the random hydrolysis of  ( 1 -  > 6 )  linkages in  ( 1 -  > 6 )  - beta - d - glucans .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ras protein signal transduction .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the phosphorylation by a protein of one or more of its own amino acid residues  ( cis - autophosphorylation )  ,  or residues on an identical protein  ( trans - autophosphorylation )  .
the addition of tubulin heterodimers to one or both ends of a microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the cytoplasm and the nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances between the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of directed movement of proteins from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of rna from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of directed movement of rna from the nucleus into the cytoplasm .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any metal ion .
enables the transfer of metal ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a tetrapyrrole ,  a compound containing four pyrrole nuclei variously substituted and linked to each other through carbons at the alpha position .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  ,  with the acyl group being converted into alkyl on transfer .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a transition metal ions ;  a transition metal is an element whose atom has an incomplete d - subshell of extranuclear electrons ,  or which gives rise to a cation or cations with an incomplete d - subshell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of transition metal ions at the level of a cell .
enables the synthesis of atp from adp and phosphate by the transfer of protons from one side of a membrane to the other by a rotational mechanism driven by a gradient according to the reaction: adp  +  h2o  +  phosphate  +  h +  ( in )  = atp  +  h +  ( out )  .
the process of introducing one or more phosphate groups into a nucleotide to produce a phosphorylated nucleoside .
the process of introducing one or more phosphate groups into a nucleoside monophosphate to produce a polyphosphorylated nucleoside .
catalysis of the reaction: l - azetidine - 2 - carboxylic acid  +  acetyl - coa = coa - sh  +  n - acetyl azetidine - 2 - carboxylic acid .
the directed movement of carboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of substances from the cytosol to the endoplasmic reticulum of a cell .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  histone h3 l - lysine  ( position 9 )  = s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine  +  histone h3 n6 - methyl - l - lysine  ( position 9 )  .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of conjugation ,  the union or introduction of genetic information from compatible mating types that results in a genetically different individual .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of the response to osmotic stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of mrna splicing via a spliceosomal mechanism .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any monosaccharide .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a quinone ,  any member of a class of diketones derivable from aromatic compounds by conversion of two ch groups into co groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with ubiquinone ,  a quinone derivative with a tail of isoprene units .
a form of programmed cell death that is accompanied by the formation of autophagosomes .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within the golgi apparatus ,  mediated by vesicles .
the creation of a single organelle from two or more organelles .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the partitioning of organelles between daughter cells at cell division .
any process that establishes the spatial arrangement of mitochondria between and within cells .
any process that establishes the spatial arrangement of mitochondria within the cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a complex of protein and rna which facilitates translocation of proteins across membranes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
the reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals from one or more parents ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
any process in which a chromosome is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
catalysis of the reaction: 7 - methylguanosine 5' - triphospho - 5' - polynucleotide  +  h2o = 7 - methylguanosine 5' - phosphate  +  polynucleotide .
catalysis of the reaction: nadh  +  h +   +  a quinone = nad +   +  a quinol .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  nucleoside monophosphate = adp  +  nucleoside diphosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: nadp (  +  )   +  pyridoxine = h (  +  )   +  nadph  +  pyridoxal .
catalysis of the reaction: utp  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the reaction: h ( 2 ) o  +  triphosphate = diphosphate  +  phosphate .
the directed movement of nucleic acids ,  single or double - stranded polynucleotides involved in the storage ,  transmission and transfer of genetic information ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of rna ,  ribonucleic acids ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with fad ,  flavin - adenine dinucleotide ,  the coenzyme or the prosthetic group of various flavoprotein oxidoreductase enzymes ,  in either the oxidized form ,  fad ,  or the reduced form ,  fadh2 .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which nadh or nadph acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces an oxygen molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing ,  those processes involved in the conversion of a primary mrna transcript into a mature mrna prior to its translation into polypeptide .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipoproteins ,  any conjugated ,  water - soluble protein in which the nonprotein group consists of a lipid or lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cell adhesion molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the plus end of a microtubule .
the movement of one microtubule along another microtubule .
the process in which an actin filament is broken down into smaller filaments .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an actin filament ,  also known as f - actin ,  a helical filamentous polymer of globular g - actin subunits .
the assembly of actin filament bundles ;  actin filaments are on the same axis but may be oriented with the same or opposite polarities and may be packed with different levels of tightness .
the directed movement of mrna ,  messenger ribonucleic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription involved in the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of small gtpase mediated signal transduction .
cell wall structures composed of linear polysaccharides which are deposited at both sides of the primary septum at 90 degrees to the primary septum .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of helicase activity .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a helicase .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a helicase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin nucleation ,  the initial step in the formation of an actin filament in which actin monomers combine to form a new filament .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin nucleation ,  the initial step in the formation of an actin filament in which actin monomers combine to form a new filament .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin nucleation ,  the initial step in the formation of an actin filament in which actin monomers combine to form a new filament .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: metal ion ( in )   +  h +  ( out )  = metal ion ( out )   +  h +  ( in )  .
the directed movement of substances out of the nucleus .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of ,  or within the nucleus .
the directed movement of substances into the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the entire length of the chromosome during meiosis .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
the directed movement of vitamins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which both atoms of oxygen from one molecule of o2 are incorporated into the  ( reduced )  product ( s )  of the reaction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart .
the controlled breakdown of the spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
the controlled breakdown of the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
the controlled breakdown of the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the spindle .
the lengthening of the distance between poles of the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
the area in the center of the spindle where the spindle microtubules from opposite poles overlap .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process in which a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a location and prevented from moving elsewhere .
the directed movement of rna to a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
the cell cycle process in which aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle midzone .
the cell cycle process in which the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components forms the spindle midzone .
the formation of the spindle midzone ,  the area in the center of the spindle where the spindle microtubules from opposite poles overlap ,  as a part of the process of meiosis .
the process of creating protein polymers ,  compounds composed of a large number of component monomers ;  polymeric proteins may be made up of different or identical monomers .
the process of creating protein oligomers ,  compounds composed of a small number ,  usually between three and ten ,  of component monomers ;  protein oligomers may be composed of different or identical monomers .
the process in which protein polymers ,  compounds composed of a large number of component monomers ,  are broken down .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the region directly beneath the plasma membrane at the cell tip .
the region at the end of the longest axis of a cylindrical or elongated cell .
the directed movement of the spindle to a specific location in the cell .
the cell cycle process in which the directed movement of the meiotic spindle to a specific location in the cell occurs .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the spindle pole body  ( spb )  .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
the directed movement of a chromosome to a specific location .
the cell cycle process in which paired chromosomes are detached from each other .
the directed movement of chromosomes in the center of the spindle towards the spindle poles ,  mediated by the shortening of microtubules attached to the chromosomes .
the process in which sister chromatids are physically detached from each other during mitosis .
the process in which chromosomes are physically detached from each other during meiosis .
the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate  ( spindle equator )  ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the spindle .
the cell cycle process in which chromosomes are aligned at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the meiotic spindle ,  during meiosis .
the cell cycle process in which spindle microtubules become physically associated with the proteins making up the kinetochore complex as part of mitotic metaphase plate congression .
the cell cycle process in which spindle microtubules become physically associated with the proteins making up the kinetochore complex contributing to meiotic chromosome segregation .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  and the beginning of dna synthesis .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place .
progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle ,  in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions .
the cell cycle phase ,  following metaphase ,  during which the chromosomes separate and migrate towards the poles of the spindle .
the cell cycle phase ,  following prophase or prometaphase in higher eukaryotes ,  during which chromosomes become aligned on the equatorial plate of the cell .
the cell cycle phase which is the first stage of m phase of meiosis and mitosis and during which chromosomes condense and the two daughter centrioles and their asters migrate toward the poles of the cell .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when prophase of meiosis or mitosis begins .
the cell cycle phase which follows anaphase during m phase of mitosis and meiosis and during which the chromosomes arrive at the poles of the cell and the division of the cytoplasm starts .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle phase which begins after cytokinesis and ends when meiotic prophase begins .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when mitotic prophase begins .
the cell cycle phase ,  following g1 ,  during which dna synthesis takes place as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the kinetochore ,  a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of dna and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
a series of molecular signals in which a stress - activated map kinase cascade relays one or more of the signals ;  map kinase cascades involve at least three protein kinase activities and culminate in the phosphorylation and activation of a map kinase .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the 'de novo' formation of a microtubule by the interphase microtubule organizing center during interphase ,  the stage of cell cycle between successive rounds of chromosome segregation .
the 'de novo' formation of a microtubule ,  mediated by the microtubule organizing center .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin transferase activity .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of ubiquitin transferase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin transferase activity .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
the process in which spindle microtubules become physically associated with the proteins making up the kinetochore complex during meiosis i .
the process in which spindle microtubules become physically associated with the proteins making up the kinetochore complex during meiosis ii .
any process in which a protein is maintained in the nucleus and prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the cytosol of a cell or between the cytosol and its surroundings .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of unidimensional cell growth ,  the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of unidimensional cell growth ,  the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of unidimensional cell growth ,  the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size in one  [ spatial ]  dimension or along one axis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of monopolar cell growth ,  polarized growth from one end of a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of monopolar cell growth ,  polarized growth from one end of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of monopolar cell growth ,  polarized growth from one end of a cell .
any process that initiates the inactive process of monopolar cell growth ,  polarized growth from one end of a cell .
the process in which a cell switches from monopolar cell growth to bipolar cell growth .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an iron - sulfur cluster ,  a combination of iron and sulfur atoms .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cluster of atoms including both metal ions and nonmetal atoms ,  usually sulfur and oxygen .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the cytoplasm of a cell or between mitochondria and their surroundings .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 9 of the histone .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 4 of the histone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 4 of histone h3 .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 9 of histone h3 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 4 of histone h3 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 4 of histone h3 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 9 of histone h3 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 9 of histone h3 .
catalysis of the beta - elimination of the 5' deoxyribose - 5 - phosphate at an abasic site in dna where a dna -  ( apurinic or apyrimidinic site )  lyase has already cleaved the c - o - p bond 3' to the apurinic or apyrimidinic site .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of methylglyoxal ,  ch3 - co - cho ,  the aldehyde of pyruvic acid .
the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein as part of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by individual cells .
any process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process in which endoplasmic reticulum is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process in which a mitochondrion or mitochondria are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process in which the nucleus is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is maintained in a specific location within ,  or in the membrane of ,  a cell ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process in which is the spindle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the directed movement of an organelle to a specific location .
any process in which nuclear pores are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which membrane rafts are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which actin cortical patches are transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which centromeres of sister chromatids are joined during meiosis .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatid arms are physically detached from each other during meiosis .
the process in which sister chromatids are physically detached from each other during meiosis .
the cell cycle process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the length of the chromosome arms during meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with g - quadruplex dna structures ,  in which groups of four guanines adopt a flat ,  cyclic hoogsteen hydrogen - bonding arrangement known as a guanine tetrad .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 r' - sh  +  rooh = r' - s - s - r'  +  h2o  +  roh .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of l - glutamate ,  the l - enantiomer of the anion of 2 - aminopentanedioic acid ,  into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomerase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomerase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of the enzyme telomerase ,  which catalyzes of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the attachment of spindle microtubules to the kinetochore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving udp - d - galactose ,  a substance composed of d - galactose in glycosidic linkage with guanosine diphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of udp - d - galactose ,  a substance composed of d - galactose in glycosidic linkage with guanosine diphosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of linkages in beta - d - glucans ;  beta - glucans are polysaccharides of d - glucose monomers linked by beta - glycosidic bonds .
catalysis of the reaction: inositol phosphate ( n )   +  h2o = inositol phosphate ( n - 1 )   +  phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: dna with 1 - n6 - ethenoadenine  +  h2o = dna with abasic site  +  1 - n6 - ethenoadenine .
catalysis of the endohydrolysis of  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - linkages in beta - d - glucans when the glucose residue whose reducing group is involved in the linkage to be hydrolysed is itself substituted at c - 3 .
catalysis of the reaction: s - adenosyl - l - methionine  +  guanine ( 9 )  in trna = n ( 1 )  - methylguanine ( 9 )  in trna  +  s - adenosyl - l - homocysteine .
a protein complex ,  located in the nucleus ,  that possesses dna - directed rna polymerase activity .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of iron ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of transition metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical at the level of the cell .
the process in which a solute is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
a metabolic process that results in the removal or addition of one or more electrons to or from a substance ,  with or without the concomitant removal or addition of a proton or protons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more molecules through a selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric interaction ,  permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way .
any process in which a peroxisome is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
either of two different areas at opposite ends of an axis of a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the synthesis of antisense rna ,  an rna molecule complementary in sequence to another rna or dna molecule ,  which ,  by binding the latter ,  acts to inhibit its function and / or completion of synthesis ,  on a template of dna .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the synthesis of antisense rna ,  an rna molecule complementary in sequence to another rna or dna molecule ,  which ,  by binding the latter ,  acts to inhibit its function and / or completion of synthesis ,  on a template of dna .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the synthesis of antisense rna ,  an rna molecule complementary in sequence to another rna or dna molecule ,  which ,  by binding the latter ,  acts to inhibit its function and / or completion of synthesis ,  on a template of dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of poly ( a )  tail shortening of a nuclear - transcribed mrna .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of poly ( a )  tail shortening of a nuclear - transcribed mrna .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of poly ( a )  tail shortening of a nuclear - transcribed mrna .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the fungal - type cell wall .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of pheromone - dependent signal transduction during conjugation with cellular fusion ,  the series of molecular signals that bring about the relay ,  amplification or dampening of a signal generated in response to a cue ,  such as starvation or pheromone exposure ,  in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the series of molecular signals that bring about the relay ,  amplification or dampening of a signal generated in response to a cue ,  such as starvation or pheromone exposure ,  in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the series of molecular signals that bring about the relay ,  amplification or dampening of a signal generated in response to a cue ,  such as starvation or pheromone exposure ,  in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined anatomical structure of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the non - sexual aggregation of single - celled organisms .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the non - sexual aggregation of single - celled organisms .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
the homeostatic process in which a population of cells changes its metabolic activity resulting in the rate of death in the population equaling the rate of reproduction .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of leucine import .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of leucine import .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding to single - stranded telomeric dna .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of single - stranded telomeric dna binding .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna strand elongation .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna strand elongation .
the directed movement of calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  into ,  out of or within the cytosol .
the directed movement of calcium ions  ( ca2 +  )  into the cytosol .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell projection assembly .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
the increase in size or mass of an anatomical structure that contributes to the structure attaining its shape .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an anatomical structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna - templated transcription termination ,  the process in which transcription is completed ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna - dependent transcription termination ,  the process in which transcription is completed ;  the formation of phosphodiester bonds ceases ,  the rna - dna hybrid dissociates ,  and rna polymerase releases the dna .
any process that modulates the localization of an actin cortical patch .
modulates the rate of ntp hydrolysis by a ntpase .
modulates the rate of atp hydrolysis by an atpase .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of chromosome condensation ,  the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of homologous chromosome segregation ,  the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the first division of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of microtubule - based movement ,  the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules and other particles along microtubules ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of ribonuclease activity ,  catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds in chains of rna .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of ribonuclease activity ,  catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphodiester bonds in chains of rna .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heterochromatin assembly by small rna .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of gene silencing ,  the transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a mrna catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a mrna catabolic process ,  the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
the membrane organization process that joins two lipid bilayers to form a single membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide by hydrolysis of its peptide bonds that is mediated by the proteasome .
the specification and formation of bipolar intracellular organization or cell growth patterns that contribute to cell morphogenesis .
the specification and formation of bipolar intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the establishment of bipolar cell polarity .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the establishment of bipolar cell polarity .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the fusion of two vacuole membranes to form a single vacuole .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the fusion of two vacuole membranes to form a single vacuole .
any process that modulates the direction of cell growth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter resulting in the increased frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of sodium ions  ( na +  )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the progression of the reproductive system over time from its formation to the mature structure .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained to either the old or new spindle pole body resulting in its being distributed asymmetrically .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained to the new mitotic spindle pole body resulting in its being distributed asymmetrically .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an actin filament bundle .
a process of actin filament bundle distribution that results in the arrangement of actin filament bundles from the periphery toward the interior of the cell .
hydrolysis of lys63 - linked ubiquitin unit ( s )  from a ubiquitinated protein .
a cytokinesis that involves the function of a set of proteins that are part of the microfilament or microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of cenp - a containing chromatin .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  cenp - a containing chromatin .
the part of the cell cortex consisting of  an aggregation of proteins that will give rise to an endocytic vesicle .
the modification of histone h3 at a lysine in position 9 of the histone .
isoenergetic transfer of a ubiquitin - like protein  ( ulp )  from one protein to another via the reaction x - scp  +  y  -  >  y - scp  +  x ,  where both the x - scp and y - scp linkages are thioester bonds between the c - terminal amino acid of scp and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue .
isoenergetic transfer of atg12 from one protein to another via the reaction x - atg12  +  y  -  >  y - atg12  +  x ,  where both the x - atg12 and y - atg12 linkages are thioester bonds between the c - terminal amino acid of atg12 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue .
catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin - like protein  ( ulp )  to a substrate protein via the reaction x - ulp  +  s  -  -  >  x  +  s - ulp ,  where x is either an e2 or e3 enzyme ,  the x - ulp linkage is a thioester bond ,  and the s - ulp linkage is an isopeptide bond between the c - terminal glycine of ulp and the epsilon - amino group of lysine residues in the substrate .
catalysis of the transfer of atg12 to a substrate protein via the reaction x - atg12  +  s  -  -  >  x  +  s - atg12 ,  where x is either an e2 or e3 enzyme ,  the x - atg12 linkage is a thioester bond ,  and the s - atg12 linkage is an isopeptide bond between the c - terminal amino acid of atg12 and the epsilon - amino group of lysine residues in the substrate .
any of the mitotic spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
a transferase complex capable of catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
the selective autohagy process in which parts of the endoplasmic reticulum are loaded into autophagosomes ,  delivered to the vacuole ,  and degraded in response to changing cellular conditions .
the disaggregation of a mitochondrion into its constituent components .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of methylglyoxal ,  ch3 - co - cho ,  into lactate .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  lysine in peptide = coa  +  n - acetyl - lysine - peptide .
the membrane invagination process by which an autophagosomal membrane surrounds an object that will be degraded by macroautophagy .
negative regulation of sister chromatid cohesion by the topological unlinking of a cohesin ring to dna .
the protein localization to chromatin by which a cohesin ring complex is topologically linked to dna as part of the mitotic cell cycle .
negative regulation of sister chromatid cohesion by the topological unlinking of a cohesin ring to dna as part of the mitotic cell cycle .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase .
the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic anaphase b .
the attachment of an endoplasmic reticulum membrane to the plasma membrane via molecular tethers .
the process of assisting in the folding of trnas into the correct tertiary structure .
any process in which the microtubule organizing center is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within the cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to histone h3 on a serine residue at position 10 .
the macroautophagy process in which specific structures are targeted by the autophagy process .
a cellular process involving delivery of a portion of the cytoplasm to lysosomes or to the plant or fungal vacuole that does not involve direct transport through the endocytic or vacuolar protein sorting  ( vps )  pathways .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an adenine biosynthetic process .
a process that contributes to the first meiotic division .
a process that coontributes to the second meiotic division .
a process in which the presence of one nutrient source leads to a decrease in the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of processes involved in the metabolism of other nutrient sources .
a process in which the presence of one carbon source leads to the modulation of the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the metabolism of other carbon sources .
any process involving glucose that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent or transcription .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate coupled to the displacement of proteins or protein complexes from nucleic acid ,  sometimes in a 'wire stripping' fashion .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate coupled to the displacement of proteins or protein complexes from dna ,  sometimes in a 'wire stripping' fashion .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
the protein localization to chromatin by which a cohesin ring complex is topologically linked to dsdna  ( leading strand )  as part of the mitotic cell cycle .
the atp - dependent protein localization to chromatin by which a cohesin ring complex is topologically linked to ssdna  ( lagging strand )  which is already linked to a dsdna  ( leading strand )  molecule as part of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of stress granule assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a stress granule .
any process that starts or increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of stress - granule assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a stress granule .
any process that stops or decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of stress - granule assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and rna molecules to form a stress granule .
any process that starts or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a pheromone response mapk cascade .
any process that increases the rate or exent of meiotic sister chromatid arm separation ,  the cell cycle process in which sister chromatid arms are physically detached from each other during meiosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to a non - growing cell tip .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to a non - growing cell tip .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial gene expression .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a dna - binding ribonucleoprotein complex that contains a lncrna complementary to the bound chromosomal locus and is involved in the tethering homologous chromosomes together during chromosome pairing at meiotic prophase i .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a protein - containing complex .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and dna molecules to form a protein - dna complex .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the hydroxyl group of a threonine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the d -  or l - enantiomer of fructose ,  the ketohexose arabino - hex - 2 - ulose .
a protein complex in which at least one of the proteins is a cytochrome ,  i .e .
the modification of a histone by the removal of a methyl group from a lysine residue .
the covalent attachment and further modification of carbohydrate residues to a substrate molecule .
the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
the successive addition of amino acid residues to a nascent polypeptide chain during protein biosynthesis in a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of proteins by the translation of mrna in a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process preceding formation of the peptide bond between the first two amino acids of a protein in a mitochondrion .
a process of chromosome organization that is involved in a meiotic cell cycle .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the telomeric region of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
catalysis of the reaction: hydrogen sulfide  +  a quinone = s0  +  a hydroquinone .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with phosphatidylinositol - 4 - phosphate ,  a derivative of phosphatidylinositol in which the inositol ring is phosphorylated at the 4' position .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via a stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
a cell cycle arrest process that results in arrest during g1 phase ,  whereupon the cell enters a specialized resting state known as g0 or quiescence .
a cell cycle arrest process that results in arrest during g1 phase ,  whereupon the cell enters g0 phase ,  in the context of cell differentiation .
a cell cycle process that modulates the rate or extent of the transition from the g0 quiescent state to the g1 phase .
a cell cycle process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate or extent of the transition from the g0 quiescent state to the g1 phase .
a cell cycle process that activates or increases the rate or extent of the transition from the g0 quiescent state to the g1 phase .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a flap structure in dna .
a transport vesicle that mediates transport from an intracellular compartment to the plasma membrane ,  and fuses with the plasma membrane to release various cargo molecules ,  such as proteins or hormones ,  by exocytosis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ergosterol .
the protein complexes that form the electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with a cell membrane ,  usually the plasma membrane  ( in prokaryotes )  or the inner mitochondrial membrane  ( on eukaryotes )  .
a respiratory chain located in the plasma membrane of a cell ;  made up of the protein complexes that form the electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with the plasma membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of the transcript body of a nuclear - transcribed mrna that occurs independent of deadenylation ,  but requires decapping followed by transcript decay .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 20 of histone h4 .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 20 of histone h4 .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of a methyl group to the lysine at position 20 of histone h4 .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving trna threonylcarbamoyladenosine ,  a modified nucleoside found in some trna molecules .
a protein deubiquitination process in which a k63 - linked ubiquitin chain ,  i .e .
catalysis of the transfer of an adenylyl group to an acceptor .
catalysis of the transfer of an uridylyl group to an acceptor .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the mitochondrion .
a process in which a calcium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a spore wall .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of an ascospore wall .
the cell cycle process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the length of the centromeric region of the chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid cohesion in the centromeric region of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein processing ,  any protein maturation process achieved by the cleavage of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  h2o = adp  +  phosphate .
any process in which a spindle pole body is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a protein modification process in which one or more covalently attached groups of a small protein ,  such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein ,  are removed from a target protein .
a protein modification process in which one or more groups of a small protein ,  such as ubiquitin or a ubiquitin - like protein ,  are covalently attached to or removed from a target protein .
an actin filament bundle that consists of short filaments organized into bundles of uniform polarity ,  and is nucleated by formins .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a formin - nucleated actin cable .
any cellular process that establishes the spatial arrangement of actin filament bundles within the cell .
a mismatch repair process that corrects errors introduced that ensures the accuracy of dna replication .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any stretch of purines  ( adenine or guanine )  in an rna molecule .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cell wall .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
a filamentous growth process in which cells remain attached after division and form thread - like filaments that may penetrate into a solid growth medium such as an agar plate ,  exhibited by unicellular fungi under certain growth conditions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which cells remain attached after division and form thread - like filaments that may penetrate into a solid growth medium .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which cells remain attached after division and form thread - like filaments that may penetrate into a solid growth medium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which cells remain attached after division and form thread - like filaments that may penetrate into a solid growth medium .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to an amino acid residue in the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii .
the chromatin organization process that preserves chromatin in a stable functional or structural state .
any process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic heterochromatin ,  a compact and highly condensed form of chromatin .
the chromatin organization process that preserves heterochromatin in a stable functional or structural state .
the directed movement of divalent metal cations ,  any metal ion with a  + 2 electric charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of divalent metal cations ,  any metal ion with a  + 2 electric charge ,  out of a cell or organelle .
the portion of the plasma membrane surrounding a mating projection tip .
any process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic heterochromatin and contributes to chromatin silencing .
a process of cell wall organization that contributes to conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline transport .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which a transposable element is incorporated into another dna molecule such as a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of regulation of transposon integration ,  a process in which a transposable element is incorporated into another dna molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transposon integration ,  a process in which a transposable element is incorporated into another dna molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transposon integration ,  a process in which a transposable element is incorporated into another dna molecule .
the process in which a uridine in position 34 of a mitochondrial trna is post - transcriptionally modified .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotides within a mitochondrial trna molecule to produce a mitochondrial trna molecule with a sequence that differs from that coded genetically .
the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to specific residues in a mitochondrial trna molecule .
the intramolecular conversion of uridine to pseudouridine in a mitochondrial trna molecule .
the addition a sulfur atom to a nucleotide in a mitochondrial trna molecule .
a dna repair process that is initiated by an endonuclease that introduces a single - strand incision immediately 5' of a uv - induced damage site .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle .
the modification of histone h4 by the removal of one or more acetyl groups .
a cytoskeletal structure composed of filamentous protein that forms beneath the membrane of many cells or organelles ,  in the plane of cell or organelle division .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the endoplasmic reticulum .
the conversion of dna - damage induced single - stranded gaps into large molecular weight dna after replication by using a specialized dna polymerase or replication complex to insert a defined nucleotide across the lesion .
the process of removing one or more methyl groups from a molecule .
a spliceosomal complex that is formed following the release of the spliced product from the post - spliceosomal complex and contains the excised intron and the u2 ,  u5 and u6 snrnps .
a spliceosomal complex that is formed following the release of the spliced product from the post - spliceosomal complex and contains the excised intron and three snrnps ,  including u5 .
a cellular process that results in a change in the spatial configuration of a dna molecule .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell cycle arrest ,  the process in which the cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell cycle arrest ,  the process in which the cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell cycle arrest ,  the process in which the cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases .
a protein complex that contains the gins complex ,  cdc45p ,  and the heterohexameric mcm complex ,  and that is involved in unwinding dna during replication .
any process in which a ribonucleoprotein complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a part of a chromosome that is organized into chromatin .
a dna replication termination process that takes place at a specific termination site .
a dna replication termination process that takes place at the rts1 termination site in the mating type locus ,  in a specific direction required for subsequent imprinting and mating - type switching .
a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint that originates from the spindle and delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  the completion of anaphase until chromosomes are attached to the spindle ,  or mitotic exit and cytokinesis when the spindle does not form .
the process of directing proteins towards the vacuole using signals contained within the protein ,  occurring as part of autophagy ,  the process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a contractile ring is assembled in a specific location that contributes to cytokinesis during cell cycle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which succinate is transported across a membrane .
a process in which a malate ion is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of a ribonucleoprotein complex from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
the directed movement of a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains messenger rna from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to histone h3 at position 14 of the histone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to histone h3 at position 14 of the histone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of an acetyl group to histone h3 at position 14 of the histone .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the centromeric region of a chromosome .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a mapk cascade that is part of a pheromone response ending in conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules by a mechanism that is mediated by dna ,  is mitotically or meiotically heritable ,  or is stably self - propagated in the cytoplasm of a resting cell ,  and does not entail a change in dna sequence .
a genetic imprinting process in which a stable single - strand dna lesion triggers programmed gene conversion at the mating - type locus ,  thereby restricting mating - type interconversion to one of the two sister chromatids during dna replication .
the initial formation of a stable single - strand dna lesion that triggers programmed gene conversion at the mating - type locus ,  thereby restricting mating - type interconversion to one of the two sister chromatids during dna replication .
a process of actin filament bundle formation that occurs in the context of assembling an actomyosin contractile ring during cytokinesis .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell wall .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cell wall ,  the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the medial cortex .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein or peptide covalently tagged with ubiquitin ,  via the n - end rule pathway .
the process of introducing a phosphate group onto a serine residue at position 2 within the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii .
the process of introducing a phosphate group onto a serine residue at position 5 within the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii .
any process in which a protein is transported from one specific location in the extracellular region to another ,  or maintained in a specific extracellular location .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the series of events in which an organic substance stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nuclear inner or outer membrane .
a subcompartment of the endoplasmic reticulum consisting of tubules having membranes with high curvature in cross - section .
a process in which a potassium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other .
a replication fork arrest process that contributes to the termination of dna replication .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a protein - dna complex .
any process in which macromolecules aggregate ,  disaggregate ,  or are modified ,  resulting in the formation ,  disassembly ,  or alteration of a ribonucleoprotein complex .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process in which the cell cycle is halted during g1 phase ,  as a result of deprivation of nitrogen .
the process in which the mitotic cell cycle is halted during one of the normal phases  ( g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  m )  .
the process in which the mitotic cell cycle is halted during g1 phase ,  as a result of deprivation of nitrogen .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a fungal - type cell wall .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a fungal - type cell wall .
a histone ubiquitination process in which a ubiquitin monomer is added to a conserved lysine residue in the c - terminus of histone h2b .
the cellular dna metabolic process resulting in the formation of dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long unbranched macromolecule formed from one or two strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides ,  the 3' - phosphate group of each constituent deoxyribonucleotide being joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage to the 5' - hydroxyl group of the deoxyribose moiety of the next one .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
the protein localization to chromatin by which a cohesin ring complex is topologically linked to dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cohesin complex is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a part of a chromosome that is organized into chromatin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cohesin complex is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a part of a chromosome that is organized into chromatin .
any process that stop ,  prevents or decreases transcription as part of the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases transcription as part of the g1 / s transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
replication fork processing that involves the unwinding of blocked forks to form four - stranded structures resembling holliday junctions ,  which are subsequently resolved .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a fungal - type cell wall .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
the removal of one or more ubiquitin groups from a protein as part of a process of ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolism .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the oxidized form ,  fad ,  of flavin - adenine dinucleotide ,  the coenzyme or the prosthetic group of various flavoprotein oxidoreductase enzymes .
the directed movement of substances from recycling endosomes to the golgi .
the cell cycle process in which the sister chromatids of a replicated chromosome are joined along the length of the chromosome arms during mitosis .
the cell cycle process in which centromeres of sister chromatids are joined during mitosis .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which transmembrane proteins are ubiquitylated to facilitate their entry into luminal vesicles of multivesicular bodies  ( mvbs )  ;  upon subsequent fusion of mvbs with lysosomes or vacuoles ,  the cargo proteins are degraded .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the spindle pole body .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location at the spindle pole body ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
the directed movement of glutathione into the vacuole across the vacuolar membrane .
a developmental process that results in the discharge of ascospores from the ascus .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of polysaccharides used in extracellular structures .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of polysaccharides in the ascus wall that contributes to the release of ascospores from the ascus .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  (  - cooh )  group .
the process in which udp - galactose is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of modified amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of compounds that contain sulfur ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an phosphate group to a threonine residue at position 3 of the histone .
the directed movement of an organelle along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process in which a microtubule is maintained in a specific location in a cell by attachment to a microtubule organizing center .
the series of events in which information about a biological process or quality is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell cycle checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of cell cycle checkpoint signaling .
the series of events in which information about the formation and integrity of cytokinetic structures ,  such as the contractile ring ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a cytokinesis checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cytokinesis checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about dna integrity is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic dna integrity checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a dna integrity checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of dna integrity checkpoint signaling .
the series of events in which information about a biological process or quality is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a meiotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a meiotic cell cycle checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about a biological process or quality is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of mitotic cell cycle checkpoint signaling .
the series of events in which information about the assembly ,  orientation or integrity of the spindle is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a spindle checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a spindle checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of spindle checkpoint signaling .
the series of events in which information about damage to dna is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a dna damage checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of dna damage checkpoint signaling .
the series of events in which information about damage to dna is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint signaling .
the series of events in which information about damage to dna is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to an intra - s dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to an intra - s dna damage checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of intra - s dna damage checkpoint signaling .
the series of events in which information about damage to dna is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of mitotic g2 / m transition dna damage checkpoint signaling .
the series of events in which information about whether dna replication is complete is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a dna replication checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a dna replication checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about whether dna replication is complete is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a meiotic dna replication checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a meiotic dna replication checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about whether dna replication is complete is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic dna replication checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic dna replication checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about cell size is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle g1 / s transition size control checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell size control checkpoint during the g1 / s transition of mitosis .
the series of events in which information about cell size is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a g2 / m transition size control checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell size control checkpoint during the g2 / m transition of mitosis .
the series of events in which information about whether spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a meiotic spindle assembly checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a meiotic spindle assembly checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about cell size is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a cell size control checkpoint .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a cell size control checkpoint during mitosis .
the series of events in which information about whether the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle spindle checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of mitotic cell cycle spindle checkpoint signaling .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle spindle checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about whether the spindle is correctly assembled ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle ,  is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint signaling .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint .
the series of events in which information about spindle assembly is received and converted into a molecular signal ,  contributing to a spindle assembly checkpoint .
a process that occurs in response to signals generated as a result of spindle assembly checkpoint signaling .
a signal transduction process that contributes to a spindle assembly checkpoint .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations within an organism or cell .
enables the transfer of inorganic cations with a valency of two from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of inorganic cations with a valency of two into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyridine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pyridine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyrimidine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pyrimidine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the process in which a purine - containing compound is transported across a membrane .
the process in which a pyrimidine - containing compound is transported across a membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a reactive oxygen species ,  any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location on or in an organelle .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location a specific location on or in an organelle ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location in the endoplasmic reticulum .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a mitochondrion ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location in a membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location in the plasma membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location in a peroxisome .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a peroxisome ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location in a vacuole .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location in a vacuole .
any process in which a protein is maintained in a specific location in a vacuole ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an mre11 complex ,  a trimeric protein complex that possesses endonuclease activity and is involved in meiotic recombination ,  dna repair and checkpoint signaling .
a spindle that forms as part of mitosis .
a spindle that forms as part of meiosis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an mcm complex ,  a hexameric protein complex required for the initiation and regulation of dna replication .
a phase of population growth during which single celled organisms reproduce by budding ,  fission ,  or other asexual methods .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the cell cortex .
a cellular protein localization process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location within the microtubule cytoskeleton .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location within the cortical microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a cellular protein localization process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the site of cell division .
any process in which a saga complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location in the transcription regulatory region of a gene .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a cellular localization process in which a centromere / kinetochore is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the process in which chromatin ,  or kinetochores are anchored to the nuclear envelope .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore - bearing structure over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore - bearing organ development ,  a process in which hyphae grow into special aggregates called fruiting bodies that produce new spores .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore - bearing organ development ,  a process in which hyphae grow into special aggregates called fruiting bodies that produce new spores .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore - bearing organ development ,  a process in which hyphae grow into special aggregates called fruiting bodies that produce new spores .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ascospore formation ,  a process in which a sexual spore ,  named ascospore ,  from ascomycete fungi was produced inside an ascus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ascospore formation ,  a process in which a sexual spore ,  named ascospore ,  from ascomycete fungi was produced inside an ascus .
the process that leads to the development of ascus ,  a sac - like structure produced by fungi of the phylum ascomycota  ( sac fungi )  in which sexually produced spores  ( ascospores )  ,  usually four or eight in number ,  are formed .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ascus development ,  a process that leads to the formation of basidium ,  a sac - like structure produced by fungi of the phylum ascomycota  ( sac fungi )  in which sexually produced spores  ( ascospores )  ,  usually four or eight in number ,  are formed .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ascus development ,  a saclike structure produced by fungi of the phylum ascomycota  ( sac fungi )  in which sexually produced spores  ( ascospores )  ,  usually four or eight in number ,  are formed .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ascus development ,  a saclike structure produced by fungi of the phylum ascomycota  ( sac fungi )  in which sexually produced spores  ( ascospores )  ,  usually four or eight in number ,  are formed .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to phosphate starvation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to stress .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of three methyl groups to lysine at position 4 of the histone .
the directed movement of l - histidine across a membrane .
the directed movement of an amino acid from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
a process that impedes the progress of the dna replication fork at natural replication fork pausing sites within the eukaryotic trna transcription unit .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of linear element assembly .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pheromone - dependent signal transduction during conjugation with cellular fusion ,  a signal transduction process resulting in the relay ,  amplification or dampening of a signal generated in response to pheromone exposure in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pheromone - dependent signal transduction during conjugation with cellular fusion ,  a signal transduction process resulting in the relay ,  amplification or dampening of a signal generated in response to pheromone exposure in organisms that undergo conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of deacetylase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of an acetyl group or groups from a substrate molecule .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of microtubule nucleation .
any process that modulates the size of an anatomical structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of ribosome biogenesis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of ribosome biogenesis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of ribosome biogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein deubiquitination .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein deubiquitination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of oligopeptides into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any cell - cell adhesion process that modulates the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
any process in which mitochondrial dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of mitochondrial fission .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mitochondrial fission .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the separation of a single continuous membrane into two membranes .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the separation of a single continuous mitochondrial membrane into two membranes and contributes to mitochondrial fission .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location in a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of spindle assembly .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins that contributes to chromosomal pairing and precedes synapsis .
the joining of two lipid bilayers to form a single organelle membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving triglyceride ,  any triester of glycerol .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving triglyceride ,  any triester of glycerol .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving triglyceride ,  any triester of glycerol .
the directed movement of a chromosome to the nuclear envelope that contributes to homologous chromosome segregation and precedes synapsis .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of centromere complex assembly ,  the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of proteins and centromeric dna molecules to form a centromeric protein - dna complex .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the spindle checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition until the spindle is correctly assembled and oriented ,  and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of metaphase plate congression ,  the alignment of chromosomes at the metaphase plate ,  a plane halfway between the poles of the spindle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h4 acetylation ,  the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h4 acetylation ,  the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of histone h4 acetylation ,  the modification of histone h4 by the addition of an acetyl group .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mitochondrial fission .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint ,  a cell cycle checkpoint that delays the metaphase / anaphase transition of a mitotic nuclear division until the spindle is correctly assembled and chromosomes are attached to the spindle .
any process that starts the inactive process of a mitotic cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into a cell or organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of target genes that are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid in any compartment of the golgi apparatus .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized in the mitochondrion .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
the nucleic acid metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between nucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle that contributes to the process of meiosis .
mitotic bipolar spindle assembly begins with spindle microtubule nucleation from the separated spindle pole body ,  includes spindle elongation during prometaphase ,  and is complete when all kinetochores are stably attached the spindle ,  and the spindle assembly checkpoint is satisfied .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein deacetylation ,  the removal of an acetyl group from a protein amino acid .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein deacetylation ,  the removal of an acetyl group from a protein amino acid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of directing proteins towards a membrane ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of directing proteins towards a membrane ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of directing proteins towards a membrane ,  usually using signals contained within the protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of superoxide metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of dna - dependent dna replication ,  the process in which new strands of dna are synthesized ,  using parental dna as a template for the dna - dependent dna polymerases that synthesize the new strands .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of formin - nucleated actin cable assembly .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of formin - nucleated actin cable assembly .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of formin - nucleated actin cable assembly .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving ornithine ,  an amino acid only rarely found in proteins ,  but which is important in living organisms as an intermediate in the reactions of the urea cycle and in arginine biosynthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the biosynthesis of deoxyribose phosphate ,  the phosphorylated sugar 2 - deoxy - erythro - pentose .
any process that inhibits or decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription of target genes that are transcribed as part of the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle .
the series of events in which an endogenous biotic stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  myristic acid  +  coa = amp  +  diphosphate  +  myristoyl - coa .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  palmitic acid  +  coa = amp  +  diphosphate  +  palmitoyl - coa .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  oleic acid  +  coa = amp  +  diphosphate  +  oleoyl - coa .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a location within a nuclear envelope .
the directed movement of lithium ions across a membrane .
the process in which a pyrimidine nucleotide - sugar is transported across a membrane .
the rna metabolic process in which the phosphodiester bonds between ribonucleotides are cleaved by hydrolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the hydrolysis of terminal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of ribonucleotides .
the assembly and arrangement of a cellular component that is composed of peptidoglycan and often chitin in addition to other materials and usually forms perpendicular to the long axis of a cell or hypha .
synthesis of dna that is a part of the process of duplicating one or more molecules of dna .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing alpha - linked alpha - d - glucose residue with release of alpha - d - glucose .
a process in which planktonically growing microorganisms aggregate and grow on solid substrates under the flow of a liquid and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate attachment and matrix formation ,  resulting in a change in the organisms' growth rate and gene transcription .
steps involved in processing precursor rnas arising from transcription of operons in the mitochondrial genome into mature mrnas .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of an mrna molecule that derives from the mitochondrial genome .
the process of removing the pcna complex from dna when okazaki fragments are completed or the replication fork terminates .
the process in which a pre - trna molecule is converted to a mature trna ,  ready for addition of an aminoacyl group ,   in the mitochondrion .
a macromolecular localization process in which rna is transported to and maintained in a location within the nucleus .
any process that starts the inactive process of a meiosis i cell cycle spindle assembly checkpoint .
a region of a chromosome at which dna damage has occurred .
any process that modulates the proportions or spatial arrangement of lipids in a cellular membrane .
any process that modulates the proportions or spatial arrangement of sterols in the plasma membrane .
the directed movement of heme out of a cell or organelle .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of an acetyl group to a lysine residue at position 56 of the histone .
a protein complex consisting of cyclin b1 and cyclin - dependent kinase 1  ( cdk1 )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile ,  and contributing to the apoptotic process .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
a stage of the apoptotic process that starts with the controlled breakdown of the cell through the action of effector caspases or other effector molecules  ( e .g .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of three methyl groups to lysine at position 36 of the histone .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile ,  and contributing to the execution phase of apoptosis .
the enzymatic addition of a sequence of 40 - 60 adenylyl residues at the 3' end of a eukaryotic mitochondrial mrna primary transcript .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which chromatin is anchored to the nuclear envelope .
a process in which a protein or protein complex is maintained in a specific location in the cell cortex of a cell tip ,  and is prevented from moving elsewhere .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
removal of pi3p and atg8 / lc3 after the closure of the phagophore and before the fusion with the endosome / lysosome  ( e .g .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a part of a chromosome that is organized into heterochromatin .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a carbohydrate derivative .
a protein complex that contains mcm4 ,  mcm6 ,  and mcm7 proteins ,  and possesses dna helicase activity .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
an arrangement of closely apposed microtubules running parallel to each other .
the transfer of an assembled iron - sulfur cluster from a scaffold protein to an acceptor protein that contributes to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a supramolecular fiber ,  a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location in a eisosome filament  ( also called linear eisosome )  ,  a filamentous cortical structure formed ,  in s . pombe ,  by the eisosome component pil1 .
an erad pathway whereby endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  - resident glycoproteins are targeted for degradation .
cyclin - dependent catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein ,  usually according to the reaction: a protein  +  atp = a phosphoprotein  +  adp .
any of the two layers of lipid molecules that constitute a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the covalent attachment of a mannose residue to a substrate molecule .
dna n - glycosylase activity acting on deaminated bases .
dna n - glycosylase activity acting on deaminated adenine  ( hypoxanthine )  .
dna n - glycosylase activity acting on deaminated guanine  ( xanthine )  .
dna n - glycosylase activity acting on deaminated guanine where the resulting base  ( oxanine )  is generated by no -  or hno2 - induced nitrosative deamination .
an actin filament bundle in which the filaments are tightly packed  ( approximately 10 - 20 nm apart )  and oriented with the same polarity .
a small ribonucleoprotein complex involved in formation of the spliceosome .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription by chromatin organization .
a process in which a calcium ion is transported from one side of a membrane to the other into the cytosol by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the region of a polarized cell other than its tips or ends  ( in some cell types ,  one end may be called the apex and the other the base )  .
the region directly beneath the plasma membrane of the lateral portion of the cell .
merging of two or more vacuoles ,  or of vacuoles and vesicles within a cell to form a single larger vacuole .
a nucleic acid binding activity that brings together complementary sequences of nucleic acids so that they pair by hydrogen bonds to form a double - stranded polynucleotide .
the directed movement of potassium ions from inside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region .
the directed movement of l - arginine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - lysine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of nucleic acid  ( dna or rna )  .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of two methyl groups to lysine at position 36 of the histone .
any vesicle that is part of the intracellular region .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of rna from ribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template .
the process of removing one or more phosphate groups from a polynucleotide .
the process of removing one or more phosphate groups from the 3' end of a polynucleotide .
the process of removing one or more phosphate groups from the 5' end of a polynucleotide .
catalysis of the reaction: phosphopolynucleotide  +  h2o = polynucleotide  +  phosphate .
a cellular component consisting of one leaflet of a membrane bilayer and any proteins embedded or anchored in it or attached to its surface .
the lipid bilayer that forms the outer - most layer of an organelle .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the attachment of two unicellular organisms to each other .
the clustering together of unicellular organisms in suspension form aggregates .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on a cell surface to an adhesion molecule on another cell surface ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to another cell .
the process by which centromeres / kinetochores become localized to clusters .
the process in which a cation is transported across a membrane .
the process in which an anion is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of some substance from outside of a cell into a cell .
the directed movement of inorganic anions from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of inorganic cations from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the process in which an inorganic ion is transported across a membrane .
the process in which an inorganic anion is transported across a membrane .
a process in which an inorganic cation is transported from one side of a membrane to the other by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any subdivision of a chromosome along its length .
the directed movement of adenine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of calcium ions from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of a carbohydrate from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of copper ions from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of iron ions from outside of a cell ,  across the cell outer membrane and into the periplasmic space .
the directed movement of glucose from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of guanine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - glutamate from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of leucine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of malate from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of malonic acid from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of nickel cations from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of pantothenate from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of serine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of sodium ions from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of succinate from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of uracil from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the removal of an acyl group ,  any group or radical of the form rco -  where r is an organic group ,  from a macromolecule .
the directed movement of some substance from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the clustering together and adhesion of initially separate cells to form an aggregate .
any process that reduces or removes the toxicity of a toxic substance .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the meiotic cell cycle is divided .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the mitotic cell cycle is divided .
a meiotic cell cycle phase prior to a during which some part of meiosis i nuclear division or the proceeding cytokinesis occurs .
a meiotic cell cycle phase that occurs after meiosis i  ( the first meiotic nuclear division )  .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
the transcription of non  ( protein )  coding rna from a dna template .
a compartment that consists of a lumen and an enclosing membrane ,  and is part of the golgi apparatus .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
a protein complex that is part of a mitochondrion .
any protein complex that is part of the inner mitochondrial membrane .
any protein complex that is part of a respiratory chain .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of nuclear chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
a distinct region of the endoplasmic reticulum .
the directed movement of a protein along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with single - stranded dna of a specific nucleotide composition .
any process carried out at the cellular level that reduces or removes the toxicity superoxide radicals or hydrogen peroxide .
any process in which localization of a protein is maintained at the cell tip .
any process in which localization of a protein is maintained at the growing cell tip .
the volume enclosed by the membranes of the cortical endoplasmic reticulum .
an infolding of the plasma membrane .
a microtubule bundle that has a constant length ,  and in which microtubule sliding does not take place .
a cellular component that consists of an indeterminate number of proteins or macromolecular complexes ,  organized into a regular ,  higher - order structure such as a polymer ,  sheet ,  network or a fiber .
a polymeric supramolecular structure .
a proteinaceous scaffold found between homologous chromosomes during meiosis .
the movement of a cellular component as a result of microtubule polymerization .
the transport of a protein to the cortex of the cell tip ,  driven by polymerization of a microtubule to which the protein is attached .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
the transport of a protein driven by polymerization of a microtubule to which it is attached .
a region of the chromosome ,  adjacent to the telomere  ( on the centromeric side )  that contains repetitive dna and sometimes genes .
the movement of a protein along a microtubule to the cell - tip ,  mediated by motor proteins .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of proteins .
fusion of the membrane of a vesicle with the plasma membrane ,  thereby releasing its contents into the extracellular space .
a cytoplasmic ,  membrane bound vesicle that is capable of fusing to the plasma membrane to release its contents into the extracellular space .
a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
a component of the cytoskeleton consisting of a homo or heteropolymeric fiber constructed from an indeterminate number of protein subunits .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytosol of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytosol .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm .
the directed movement of inorganic ions from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the cell cycle process in which chromosomes that are laterally attached to one or more mitotic spindle microtubules migrate towards the spindle equator via plus - end - directed movement along the microtubules .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids become laterally attached to spindle microtubules as part of mitotic metaphase plate congression .
a process in which a protein is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a spore cell wall .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane .
any protein phosphorylation process that negatively regulates protein kinase activity .
any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that positively regulates dna repair .
any transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter process that negatively regulates arginine catabolic process .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ubiquitin from proteins and other molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of firing from a late origin of replication involved in mitotic dna replication .
a ribonuclease complex that has 3 - prime to 5 - prime distributive hydrolytic exoribonuclease activity and in some taxa  ( e .g .
a mitotic cell cycle process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement ,  or disassembly of the nuclear inner or outer membrane during mitosis .
the process in which a nuclear membrane is synthesized ,  aggregates ,  and bonds together .
a process in which the nuclear inner or outer membrane is synthesized ,  aggregates ,  and bonds together during mitotic nuclear division .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process whereby a guanine in a trna is methylated at the n7 position of guanine .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together a cytoskeletal protein or protein complex and a plasma membrane lipid or membrane - associated protein ,  in order to maintain the localization of the cytoskeleton at a specific cortical membrane location .
any process in which a microtubule is maintained in a specific location at the cell tip by attachment to the cell cortex .
any process that regulates the localization of a protein to the medial cortex .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to the medial cortex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cellular response to osmotic stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exit from mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exit from meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exit from meiosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin ssdna  ( lagging strand )  loading .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin ssdna  ( lagging strand )  loading .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin ssdna  ( lagging strand )  loading .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin dsdna  ( leading strand )  loading .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin dsdna  ( leading strand )  loading .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin dsdna  ( leading strand )  loading .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a sterol biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonucleolytic nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process involved in deadenylation - dependent decay .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonucleolytic nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process involved in deadenylation - dependent decay .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonucleolytic nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process involved in deadenylation - dependent decay .
the modification of histone h3 by addition of one or more methyl groups to lysine at position 37 of the histone .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the catalysis of the exonucleolytic cleavage of poly ( a )  to 5' - amp .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of poly ( a )  - specific ribonuclease activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of poly ( a )  - specific ribonuclease activity .
the binding activity of a molecule that interacts selectively and non - covalently with two or more regions of double - stranded dna simultaneously .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving trna methylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna methylation .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a formin - nucleated actin cable .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a p - body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures containing both actin and myosin or paramyosin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis i ,  a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through the first phase of meiosis ,  in which cells divide and homologous chromosomes are paired and segregated from each other ,  producing two daughter cells .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to mi phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to mi phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to mi phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic telomere clustering during interphase .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic telomere clustering during interphase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell division site involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell division site involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell division site involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
a cytoskeletal structure composed of actin filaments ,  myosin ,  and myosin - associated proteins that forms beneath the plasma membrane of many cells ,  including animal cells and yeast cells ,  in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the meiotic spindle ,  i .e .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the release of duplicated spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  and their migration away from each other within the nuclear membrane .
the process of generating multiple mrna molecules with variable 3' - end length formation from a given pre - mrna by differential use of cleavage and polyadenylation signals  ( pa signals )  .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the mrna cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor complex .
cleavage of the 5' - cap of an rna .
cleavage of the 5' - methylguanosine - cap of an mrna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase one )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase one )  .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase one )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase three )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase three )  .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cell cycle process in which the distance is lengthened between poles of the mitotic spindle during mitotic prophase  ( spindle phase three )  .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
any dna biosynthetic process that is involved in mitochondrial dna replication .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
the directed movement of hydrogen ions  ( protons )  from inside a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region .
formation of a prolongation or process extending and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of plasma membrane bounded cell projections .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a plasma membrane bounded prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to a medial cortical node .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to a medial cortical node .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microfilament motor activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microfilament motor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microfilament motor activity .
any transposon integration that contributes to a process of rna - mediated transposition .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( dna )  - 3' - diphospho - 5' - guanosine  +  h ( 2 ) o  < = >   ( dna )  - 3' - phosphate  +  gmp .
the process in which the telomeres are gathered together to a small number of foci per chromosome  ( usually one per chromosome or fewer )  ,  and moved to and tethered at the nuclear periphery ,  as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
the process whereby the mitotic telomeres are gathered together during ,  or prior to ,  attachment to the nuclear envelope .
a pathway targeting soluble cytosolic proteins to the vacuole lumen .
a protein complex containing members of the like - sm family of proteins ,  which includes both the sm proteins and the lsm proteins ,  and which generally form hexameric or heptameric ring structures which bind to rna .
a heteroheptameric ,  nuclear protein complex composed of lsm2 ,  lsm3 ,  lsm4 ,  lsm5 ,  lsm6 ,  lsm7 ,  and lsm8 ,  or orthologs thereof ,  that selectively binds to snrnas ,  in particular u6 or u6atac snrnas ,  and also to unspliced transcripts localized within the nucleus .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly of actin cortical patches .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring disassembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring disassembly .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an mbf transcription complex .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to chromatin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to chromatin .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase ii transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or location of heterochromatin organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heterochromatin organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heterochromatin organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or location of chromosome attachment to the nuclear envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chromosome attachment to the nuclear envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chromosome attachment to the nuclear envelope .
one of the two nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a mitotic cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
the cellular processes that contribute to exocytosis .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a protein upon post - translation modification of the target protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a protein upon methylation of the target protein .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules as a result of an extracellular stimulus .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts of a lipid droplet .
any process in which a lipid droplet is transported to ,  or maintained to the prospore membrane leading edge .
the process in which a mitochondrial gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
the process by which an organelle membrane interacts with another membrane via molecular tethers that physically bridge the two membranes and attach them to each other .
catalytic activity that acts to modify a protein .
catalytic activity that acts to modify dna .
catalytic activity that acts to modify rna .
catalytic activity that acts to modify a trna .
the directed movement of some substance from inside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region .
a cellular process in which two or more cells combine together ,  their plasma membrane fusing ,  producing a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to phosphate starvation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to phosphate starvation .
the directed movement of hexose from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the mitotic cell cycle process where kinetochore microtubule attachment defects are corrected .
the cell cycle process where kinetochore microtubule attachment defects are corrected .
the assembly and arrangement of a septum that spans the plasma membrane interface between progeny cells following mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic division septum formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic division septum formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic division septum formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to the medial cortex .
the directed movement of some substance from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
the directed movement of a lipid from outside of a cell into a cell .
the directed movement of heme from inside the vacuole across the vacuolar membrane and into the cytosol .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of one or more ubiquitin groups .
the modification of histone h3 by the addition of one or more ubiquitin groups to a lysine residue at position 14 of the histone .
a microtubule - based process in which chromosomes migrate as a result of rapid spindle pole body  ( spb )  and centrosome oscillations during mitotic interphase .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna alternative polyadenylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna alternative polyadenylation .
the directed movement of a heme from outside of a cell into a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid biorientation ,  the mitotic cell cycle process in which sister chromatids establish stable ,  end - on attachments to the plus ends of microtubules emanating from opposite spindle poles ,  oriented such that separation can proceed .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to a meiotic spindle pole body .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to a meiotic spindle pole body .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to a meiotic spindle pole body .
the reversible aggregation of misfolded proteins and chaperones ,  formed to shield thermosensitive proteins from degradation until conditions allow disaggregation and refolding .
the release of duplicated meiotic spindle pole bodies  ( spbs )  .
catalysis of the removal of a methyl group from a protein .
the region directly beneath the plasma membrane at the cell tip at which no growth takes place .
a process in which the duplicated mitotic spindle pole body is inserted into a fenestra which opens in the nuclear envelope in early mitosis ,  and is subsequently tethered to the membrane .
the action of a molecule that provides a shape or a sequence mimicking or complementary to the final product ,  providing template for copying the original molecule's shape or sequence .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of negative regulation of mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reticulophagy .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reticulophagy .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a dna recombination process that results in the bidirectional exchange of genetic material between highly homologous dna molecules .
a protein complex that is part of an endoplasmic reticulum .
a protein - containing complex located intracellularly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of deacetylase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of deacetylase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of arginase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of arginase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of arginase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k4 acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k4 acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k4 acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to heat .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to heat .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to heat .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to hypoxia .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to hypoxia .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to hypoxia .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone exchange .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone exchange .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone exchange .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxisome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxisome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alkalinity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alkalinity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of arginine catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of arginine catabolic process .
any signalling pathway that increases or activates a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 dimethylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 dimethylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 dimethylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 trimethylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 trimethylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 trimethylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  deadenylation - dependent decay .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  deadenylation - dependent decay .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  deadenylation - dependent decay .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of directed movement of proteins from the nucleus into the cytoplasm ,  during anaphase occurring as part of meiosis ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - directed dna polymerase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - directed dna polymerase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - directed dna polymerase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna polyadenylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna polyadenylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna polyadenylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide biosynthetic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyrimidine nucleotide biosynthetic process .
a regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of iron ion import .
a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in positive regulation of dna repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to oxidative stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of filamentous growth of a population of unicellular organisms .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of filamentous growth of a population of unicellular organisms .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of filamentous growth of a population of unicellular organisms .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pseudohyphal growth by activating or increasing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alkalinity by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 / s transition of mitotic cell cycle by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase  ( nadph )  activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of flocculation .
the directed movement of a malonic acid into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any rna modification that takes place in mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycine import into a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycine import into a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycine import .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - threonine import into cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - threonine import into cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - threonine import into cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - tyrosine import into the cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - tyrosine import into the cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - tyrosine import into the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to salt stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fermentation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to reactive oxygen species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - glutamine import into cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - glutamine import into a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - glutamine import into cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome maturation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to caffeine .
any positive regulation of calcium ion transport into cytosol that is involved in cellular response to calcium ion .
any positive regulation of calcium ion transport into cytosol that is involved in cellular response to salt stress .
any negative regulation of calcium ion transport into cytosol that is involved in cellular response to salt stress .
the directed movement of a carbohydrate derivative into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with nucleoside phosphate .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via single - strand annealing .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nucleoside phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sterol regulatory element binding protein cleavage .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sterol regulatory element binding protein cleavage .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sterol regulatory element binding protein cleavage .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to alcohol .
any l - glutamate import that is involved in cellular response to nitrogen starvation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in cellular response to chemical stimulus .
the directed movement of malonic acid across a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic hydroxy compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actomyosin contractile ring localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actomyosin contractile ring localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actomyosin contractile ring localization .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a response that results in a state of tolerance to ketone .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosyl compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosyl compound .
the directed movement of calcium ion out of a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of superoxide dismutase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of superoxide dismutase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of superoxide dismutase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle assembly .
the directed movement of an iron coordination entity into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with leptomycin b .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone deacetylase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone deacetylase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone deacetylase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasomal protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasomal protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of deadenylation - independent decapping of nuclear - transcribed mrna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of deadenylation - independent decapping of nuclear - transcribed mrna .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular respiration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein depolymerization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell septum assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell septum assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell septum assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an atpase - coupled calcium transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an  atpase - coupled calcium transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an atpase - coupled calcium transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell division site .
any regulation of protein localization to cell division site that is involved in cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exoribonuclease activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exoribonuclease activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exoribonuclease activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to iron ion starvation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to iron ion starvation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of polynucleotide 3' - phosphatase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of polynucleotide 3' - phosphatase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle checkpoint .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with phosphatidylinositol phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell cycle phase transition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic cell cycle phase transition .
the process in which a fatty acid is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of a l - lysine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a l - arginine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k18 acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k18 acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k18 acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiotic cell cycle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any nucleotide phosphorylation that is involved in dna repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic spindle elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic spindle elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to cell cycle checkpoint signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to cell cycle checkpoint signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna integrity checkpoint signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna integrity checkpoint signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage checkpoint signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage checkpoint signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to g2 dna damage checkpoint signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to g2 dna damage checkpoint signaling .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with 5 - o - phosphono - alpha - d - ribofuranosyl diphosphate .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with imp ,  inosine monophosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp - dependent rna helicase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp - dependent rna helicase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary amine oxidase activity .
any dna replication initiation that is involved in cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication termination that is involved in cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication ,  synthesis of rna primer that is involved in cell cycle dna replication .
any dna strand elongation that is involved in cell cycle dna replication .
any dna unwinding that is involved in cell cycle dna replication .
any maintenance of fidelity that is involved in cell cycle dna replication .
any pre - replicative complex assembly that is involved in cell cycle dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of copper ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of copper ion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of copper ion transmembrane transport .
any dna replication initiation that is involved in nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication termination that is involved in nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
any synthesis of rna primer that is involved in nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
any dna strand elongation that is involved in nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
any dna duplex unwinding that is involved in nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
the directed movement of sulfate across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to spindle pole body .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to spindle pole body .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to spindle pole body .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exodeoxyribonuclease activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exodeoxyribonuclease activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exodeoxyribonuclease activity .
any detection of stimulus that is involved in meiotic spindle checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in meiotic spindle checkpoint .
any detection of stimulus that is involved in mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in mitotic dna integrity checkpoint .
any actomyosin contractile ring contraction that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any actomyosin contractile ring localization that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any actomyosin contractile ring maintenance that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any assembly of mitotic cytokinetic actomyosin apparatus .
any cytokinesis ,  site selection that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any cytokinetic process that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochore involved in mitotic sister chromatid segregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochore involved in mitotic sister chromatid segregation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochore involved in mitotic sister chromatid segregation .
a positive regulation of the mitotic metaphase / anaphase transition that results from deactivation of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a division septum .
the directed movement of sulfate from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a mitotic spindle pole body .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a meiotic spindle pole body .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with riboflavin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis ,  site selection .
the directed movement of l - alpha - amino acid across a membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a mitotic spindle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a gamma - tubulin complex .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a growing cell tip .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a non - growing cell tip .
a protein complex which is capable of catalytic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction involved in mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction involved in mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction involved in mitotic g2 dna damage checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle transport along microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein monoubiquitination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein monoubiquitination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein monoubiquitination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to mitotic spindle pole body .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to mitotic spindle pole body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna n - glycosylase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna n - glycosylase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna n - glycosylase activity .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a mei2 nuclear dot .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of catalase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of catalase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of catalase activity .
a protein complex which is capable of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an origin recognition complex .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a nucleolus .
any protein localization to cell division site that is involved in cytokinesis ,  actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear cell cycle dna replication .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a medial cortical node .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to water deprivation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication origin binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication origin binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication origin binding .
the directed movement of a proton across a membrane .
the disaggregation of an actomyosin contractile ring into its constituent components .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving secondary alcohol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of secondary alcohol .
the directed movement of calcium ion into a cytosol .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a prospore membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of replication fork arrest at rdna repeats .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in the pericentric heterochromatin .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any cell cortex that is part of a growing cell tip .
any apoptotic process that is involved in anatomical structure development .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g2 phase to m phase of the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of snorna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of snorna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of snorna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphodiesterase i activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphodiesterase i activity .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any signalling pathway that activates or increases the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to microtubule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline import into cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline import into cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline import into cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear migration along microtubule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear migration along microtubule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear migration along microtubule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle elongation .
any microtubule cytoskeleton organization that is involved in mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to oxidative stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasome - activating atpase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasome - activating atpase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteasome - activating atpase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibril organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization .
a protein complex which is capable of protein kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein polyubiquitination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein polyubiquitination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein polyubiquitination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mating projection assembly .
any plasma membrane part that is part of a growing cell tip .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alcohol biosynthetic process .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a septin ring .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial electron transport ,  nadh to ubiquinone .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial electron transport ,  nadh to ubiquinone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial electron transport ,  nadh to ubiquinone .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a mitotic spindle midzone .
any nuclear dna replication that is involved in a mitotic cell cycle .
any dna duplex unwinding involved in meiotic cell cycle dna replication .
any dna duplex unwinding involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication initiation involved in meiotic cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication initiation involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication termination involved in meiotic cell cycle dna replication .
any dna replication termination involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any synthesis of rna primer involved in meiotic cell cycle dna replication .
any synthesis of rna primer involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any dna strand elongation involved in meiotic cell cycle dna replication .
any dna strand elongation involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any pre - replicative complex assembly involved in meiotic cell cycle dna replication .
any pre - replicative complex assembly involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein deubiquitination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein k63 - linked deubiquitination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein k63 - linked deubiquitination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein k63 - linked deubiquitination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lys63 - specific deubiquitinase activity .
the disaggregation of an organelle into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of an ascospore - type prospore membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of formation of an ascospore - type prospore membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna polymerase ii regulatory region sequence - specific dna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna polymerase ii regulatory region sequence - specific dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule plus - end binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule plus - end binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule plus - end binding .
a process that is part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteolysis involved in cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteolysis involved in cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proteolysis involved in cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein lipidation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell tip .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell tip .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell tip .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of er - associated ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of er - associated ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of er - associated ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
the directed movement of pyridoxine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to plasma membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a condensed chromosome .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a condensed nuclear chromosome .
any spindle pole body duplication that is involved in the mitotic cell cycle .
the process in which pyridoxine is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the formation of nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenp - a to form centromeric chromatin .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenp - a to form centromeric chromatin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of nucleosomes containing the histone h3 variant cenp - a to form centromeric chromatin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription occuring in the mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament - based movement .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament - based movement .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament organization involved in cytokinetic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the location of an actin cytoskeleton .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the location of an actin filament bundle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of thioredoxin peroxidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of thioredoxin peroxidase activity .
a peptidyl - threonine phosphorylation that results in negative regulation of thioredoxin peroxidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any actin filament that is part of a actomyosin contractile ring .
any actin filament that is part of a cell cortex of cell tip .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by an autophagic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by autophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a mating - type region heterochromatin .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a subtelomeric heterochromatin .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an u2 - type prespliceosome .
the process in which sorbose is transported from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a mating projection tip .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione peroxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrogen peroxide catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion import .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion import across the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion import across the plasma membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a golgi membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mrna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein modification by small protein conjugation or removal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of snorna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of snorna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of snorna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic dna double - strand break formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic dna double - strand break formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic dna double - strand break formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleus organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of golgi organization .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a lateral cortical node .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary cell septum biogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary cell septum biogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary cell septum biogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of m7g ( 5' ) pppn diphosphatase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of m7g ( 5' ) pppn diphosphatase activity .
the directed movement of l - arginine across a membrane .
the directed movement of l - lysine across a membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a nuclear body .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a plasma membrane of cell tip .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an endoplasmic reticulum tubular network .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 to g0 transition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 to g0 transition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of g1 to g0 transition .
any lagging strand elongation that is involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication initiation involved in mitotic dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication initiation involved in mitotic dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication initiation involved in mitotic dna replication .
any dna replication ,  removal of rna primer that is involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring contraction .
any actomyosin contractile ring assembly that is involved in mitotic cytokinesis .
any protein localization to cell division site that is involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any actin filament bundle assembly that is involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any actin filament organization that is involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament organization involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament organization involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament organization involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any establishment of actomyosin contractile ring localization that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of actomyosin contractile ring localization involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
the directed movement of calcium ion from cytosol to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein targeting .
any microtubule bundle formation that is involved in spindle midzone assembly involved in mitosis .
any microtubule bundle formation that is involved in horsetail - astral microtubule organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to amino acid starvation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrion degradation by autophagy .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cytoplasmic stress granule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis ,  site selection .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna polymerase iii activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna polymerase iii activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic transport .
any phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain serine 5 residues that is involved in positive regulation of transcription elongation from rna polymerase ii promoter .
any phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain serine 2 residues that is involved in positive regulation of transcription elongation from rna polymerase ii promoter .
the directed movement of methionine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic g1 cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic g1 cell cycle arrest in response to nitrogen starvation .
any mapk cascade that is involved in ascospore formation .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a horsetail - astral microtubule array .
the directed movement of asparagine across a membrane .
the directed movement of isoleucine across a membrane .
the process in which guanine is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of potassium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna double - strand break processing .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a vacuolar membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion import across the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion import across the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion import across the plasma membrane .
the directed movement of l - valine across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutathione biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of amino acid transmembrane transport .
the process in which uracil is transported across a membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of inorganic anion transmembrane transport .
the directed movement of l - leucine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - glutamine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of glycine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - valine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - isoleucine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - threonine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - tyrosine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - histidine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - asparagine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
the directed movement of l - serine into a cell .
any detection of stimulus that is involved in a mitotic cytokinesis checkpoint .
any signal transduction that is involved in a mitotic cytokinesis checkpoint .
the process in which an organic acid is transported across a membrane .
the directed movement of arginine across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to amino acid starvation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to amino acid starvation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an old growing cell tip .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidative phosphorylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  ( nad ( p ) h )  activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  ( nad ( p ) h )  activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase  ( nad ( p ) h )  activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament severing .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament severing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament severing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna primase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna primase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna primase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cyclin - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein targeting to vacuole involved in autophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein targeting to vacuole involved in autophagy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein targeting to vacuole involved in autophagy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation transmembrane transport .
the process in which pyrimidine is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic cell death .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any dna synthesis that is involved in uv - damage excision repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate dehydrogenase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate dehydrogenase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pyruvate dehydrogenase activity .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an equatorial microtubule organizing center .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly ofa post - anaphase microtubule array .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cdp - diacylglycerol - serine o - phosphatidyltransferase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cdp - diacylglycerol - serine o - phosphatidyltransferase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cdp - diacylglycerol - serine o - phosphatidyltransferase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of succinate dehydrogenase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of aconitate hydratase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of aconitate hydratase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of aconitate hydratase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of polynucleotide adenylyltransferase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of polynucleotide adenylyltransferase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of polynucleotide adenylyltransferase activity .
the directed movement of l - proline from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic dna damage checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of erad pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of erad pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of erad pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of error - prone translesion synthesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of error - prone translesion synthesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of error - prone translesion synthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein catabolic process in the vacuole .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore germination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore germination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore germination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to actin cortical patch .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to actin cortical patch .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to actin cortical patch .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell periphery .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell periphery .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell periphery .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gtp binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gtp binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gtp binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion transmembrane transport .
a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
a negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in regulation of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any protein localization to actomyosin contractile ring that is involved in mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of premeiotic dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of premeiotic dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of initiation of premeiotic dna replication .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location at a cytoplasmic microtubule plus - end .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location at a microtubule minus - end .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic telomere tethering at nuclear periphery .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic telomere tethering at nuclear periphery .
any fungal - type cell wall disassembly that is involved in conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to glucose starvation .
the directed movement of l - proline across a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein import .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein import .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein import .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase ii transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase ii transcription .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an actin fusion focus .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an actin fusion focus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin binding .
any protein localization to cell division site that is involved in cell separation after cytokinesis .
the process in which glucose is transported across a membrane .
any actin filament polymerization that is involved in mitotic actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
the directed movement of myo - inositol from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle disassembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle disassembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translational initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of electron transfer activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of electron transfer activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of electron transfer activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomeric dna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomeric dna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomeric dna binding .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an atg1 / ukl1 kinase complex .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleolus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleolus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleolus .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a new growing cell tip .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an equatorial microtubule organizing center .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell cortex .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell cortex .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell cortex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic actomyosin contractile ring maintenance .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a rits complex .
any regulation of translation that is involved in cellular response to uv .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oxidation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oxidation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein oxidation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to chromosome ,  telomeric region .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to chromosome ,  telomeric region .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to chromosome ,  telomeric region .
the process in which a purine nucleobase is transported across a membrane .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an anaphase - promoting complex .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location at a microtubule plus - end .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of superoxide radicals .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of superoxide radicals .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of bipolar cell polarity .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an ascospore wall .
any dna biosynthetic process that is involved in mitotic dna replication .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochore involved in homologous chromosome segregation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of spindle microtubules to kinetochore involved in homologous chromosome segregation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endosome organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endosome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - lysine import into cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - lysine import into cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - lysine import into cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an autophagosome .
the process in which carboxylic acid is transported across a membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitotic spindle pole body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial translational elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of guanyl - nucleotide exchange factor activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of guanyl - nucleotide exchange factor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of guanyl - nucleotide exchange factor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lateral attachment of mitotic spindle microtubules to kinetochore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lateral attachment of mitotic spindle microtubules to kinetochore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic chromosome separation .
the directed movement of biotin from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2b complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of urease activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of urease activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein serine / threonine phosphatase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein serine / threonine phosphatase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiosis i .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiosis i .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiosis i .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiosis ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiosis ii .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of metaphase / anaphase transition of meiosis ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic dna double - strand break formation involved in reciprocal meiotic recombination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic dna double - strand break formation involved in reciprocal meiotic recombination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic dna double - strand break formation involved in reciprocal meiotic recombination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proton - transporting atp synthase activity ,  rotational mechanism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proton - transporting atp synthase activity ,  rotational mechanism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proton - transporting atp synthase activity ,  rotational mechanism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of retrograde transport ,  endosome to golgi .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of retrograde transport ,  endosome to golgi .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of retrograde transport ,  endosome to golgi .
any positive regulation of g2 / m transition of mitotic cell cycle that is involved in cellular response to nitrogen starvation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cohesin loading .
any spindle assembly checkpoint that is involved in meiosis i .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a telomerase holoenzyme complex .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a telomere - telomerase complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the meiosis i spindle assembly checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the meiosis i spindle assembly checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cohesin unloading .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cohesin unloading .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to kinetochore .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to kinetochore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to kinetochore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cohesin unloading .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cleavage furrow .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cleavage furrow rim .
a protein complex which is capable of exoribonuclease activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of snrna pseudouridine synthesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of snrna pseudouridine synthesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of snrna pseudouridine synthesis .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a meiotic spindle .
a protein complex which is capable of peptidase activity .
a protein complex which is capable of endopeptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytochrome - c oxidase activity .
any regulation of protein localization to cell division site that is involved in cell separation after cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin loading .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin loading .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin unloading .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin unloading .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cohesin loading .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in positive regulation of cell growth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k4 trimethylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k4 trimethylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k4 trimethylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled electron transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled electron transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled electron transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna duplex unwinding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna duplex unwinding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna duplex unwinding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - quadruplex dna unwinding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - quadruplex dna unwinding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - quadruplex dna unwinding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate - ammonia ligase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - quadruplex dna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - quadruplex dna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of g - quadruplex dna binding .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a microtubule organizing center .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an interphase microtubule organizing center .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of uracil import across plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of uracil import across plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of uracil import across plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leucine import across plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leucine import across plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leucine import across plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - arginine import across plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - arginine import across plasma membrane .
the directed movement of l - methionine from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endoplasmic reticulum .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - arginine import across plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - methionine import across plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - methionine import across plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - methionine import across plasma membrane .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an euchromatin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to chromatin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna polymerase ii regulatory region sequence - specific dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial mrna catabolic process .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed movement of proline from outside of a cell into the cytoplasmic compartment .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a mitotic checkpoint complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomerase rna reverse transcriptase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomerase rna reverse transcriptase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of telomerase rna reverse transcriptase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion import across plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion import across plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endosome .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endosome .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to endosome .
the disaggregation of a peroxisome into its constituent components .
the disaggregation of an endoplasmic reticulum into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled proton transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial atp synthesis coupled proton transport .
any process that modulates the location ,  frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis involved in conjugation with cellular fusion .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the perinuclear region of the cytoplasm .
any microtubule bundle that is part of a cytoplasm .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location at a microtubule end .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - proline import across plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - proline import across plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of l - proline import across plasma membrane .
any nucleus that is part of a ascospore - type prospore .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cytoplasmic microtubule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary cell septum biogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary cell septum biogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of primary cell septum biogenesis .
any microtubule that is part of a post - anaphase microtubule array .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp - dependent dna helicase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp - dependent dna helicase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp - dependent dna helicase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonuclease activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonuclease activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of exonuclease activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anaphase - promoting complex - dependent catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anaphase - promoting complex - dependent catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anaphase - promoting complex - dependent catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid arm separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid arm separation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid arm separation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of microtubule nucleation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to gamma radiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atg1 / ulk1 kinase complex assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atg1 / ulk1 kinase complex assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atg1 / ulk1 kinase complex assembly .
any chromatin remodeling that is involved in meiosis i .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to endoplasmic reticulum stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion export across the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to calcium ion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to calcium ion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to calcium ion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcium ion import across plasma membrane .
any dna recombination that takes place in mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alcohol .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alcohol .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to alcohol .
the area in the center of the anaphase spindle consisting of microtubules ,  microtubule bundling factors and kinesin motors where the spindle microtubules from opposite poles overlap in an antiparallel manner .
the directed movement of calcium ions from inside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which glycerol is converted into glycerone and nad +  or nadp is reduced .
catalysis of the endonucleolytic cleavage immediately 5' to pyrimidine dimers to products with 5' - phosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a messenger rna  ( mrna )  molecule ,  initiated by the enzymatic addition of a sequence of uridylyl residues  ( polyuridylation )  at the 3' end of the target mrna .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the nuclear periphery .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location at the cell tip .
a process in which a protein is maintained in a location in telomeric heterochromatin .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a dsc e3 ubiquitin ligase complex ,  an e3 ubiquitin ligase complex localized to the er and golgi membrane .
the modification of histone h2a by the addition of a phosphate group .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  a region of a chromosome at which a dna double - strand break has occurred .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within the nucleoplasm .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained at ,  the actomyosin contractile ring .
the process in which the 3' end of a pre - trna molecule is converted to that of a mature trna in the mitochondrion .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  n - terminal l - serine in peptide = coa  +  n - acetyl - l - serine - peptide .
catalysis of the reaction: acetyl - coa  +  n - terminal l - glutamate in peptide = coa  +  n - acetyl - l - glutamate - peptide .
any protein complex that possesses oxidoreductase activity .
a protein complex capable of catalyzing the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
an nuclear body involved in nuclear mrna surveilllance .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any disaggregation of an actomyosin contractile ring into its constituent components that is involved in a mitotic cell cycle .
a process in which rna is transported to and maintained in a part of a chromosome that is organized into chromatin .
a cytoskeletal part that consists of an array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms at the end of anaphase ,  and in which microtubules are nucleated from an equatorial microtubule organizing center .
protein complex that associates with the kinetochores .
a region of facultative heterochromatin formed dynamically at specific loci in response to environmental signals ,  independently of rnai .
a region of heterochromatin that is formed dynamically under specific growth conditions by a process that requires rnai ,  and is enriched in histone h3 methylated on lysine 9  ( h3k9me )  .
a cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a secondary cell septum following nuclear division .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the meiotic spindle pole body .
the posttranscriptional addition of a methyl group to the 2' oxygen atom of a nucleotide residue in an snrna molecule .
the posttranscriptional addition a methyl group to the 2' - oxygen atom of a nucleotide residue in an u6 snrna molecule .
a protein complex that is anchored at the cortical face of the plasma membrane ,  and contains proteins involved in regulating cell cycle progression .
the nuclear rna silencing  ( nurs )  complex is a protein complex formed by an rna binding protein red1 ,  an rna helicase mtl1 ,  red5 ,  rmn1 ,  iss10 / pir1 ,  and ars2 / pir2 .
any microtubule that is part of a mitotic spindle ;  anchored at one spindle pole .
any maintenance of fidelity that is involved in mitotic cell cycle dna replication .
the process in which a solute is transported from one side of a membrane to the other into ,  out of or within a mitochondrion .
the process by which centromeres / kinetochores attach to and migrate along microtubules to become localized to clusters at the spindle pole body during a meiotic prometaphase i .
the directed movement of potassium ions from outside of a cell ,  across the plasma membrane and into the cytosol .
any of the meiotic spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within 3' overhang single - stranded deoxyribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
a process in which a mitotic spindle pole body is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific cellular location .
the joining of two lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondria .
any process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of nucleolar chromatin .
any process in which an astral microtubule is maintained in a specific location in a cell by attachment to a mitotic spindle pole body .
any process in which a gamma - tubulin complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location at a mitotic spindle pole body .
any process carried out at the cellular level that reduces or removes the toxicity of a toxic substance .
the removal of tubulin heterodimers from one or both ends of a microtubule that is part of the mitotic spindle .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together a ubiquitin ligase and its substrate .
the mitotic cell cycle process in which sister chromatids establish stable ,  end - on attachments to the plus ends of microtubules emanating from opposite spindle poles ,  oriented such that separation can proceed .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the cell periphery .
a nucleic acid binding activity that brings together complementary sequences of ssdna so that they pair by hydrogen bonds to form a double - stranded dna .
the directed movement of basic amino acids from one side of a membrane to the other .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with double - stranded dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatid arms are physically detached from each other during mitosis .
the cell cycle process in which chromosome arm chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis in eukaryotic cells .
the cell cycle process in which centromere chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cell cortex of cell tip .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  the cell cortex of the cell tip .
the process by which spo11 / rec12 - oligonucleotide complexes are removed from 5' dna double - strand breaks induced during meiosis .
the process following clipping in double - strand break processing of spo11 induced breaks ,  where long - tract single - stranded 3' - end dna is generated from naked  ( spo11 has been removed )  5' ends .
a macromolecular complex that contains both rna and protein molecules .
the repair of double - strand breaks in dna via homologous and nonhomologous mechanisms to reform a continuous dna helix that contributes to reciprocal meiotic recombination .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together a proteasome complex and a nuclear inner membrane ,  to maintain the nuclear membrane localization of the proteasome .
any process in which the proteasome is transported to ,  or maintained at the nuclear periphery .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a mechanism to recapture 'lost' chromosomes  ( chromosomes which have become detached from the spindle )  during metaphase of mitotic chromosome segregation .
any process involved in the progression from anaphase / telophase of meiosis ii to the creation of end products of meiosis ,  in which ploidy is reduced by half .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase as part of meiosis i .
the cell cycle process in which a cell progresses from metaphase to anaphase as part of meiosis ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a dna damage checkpoint .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to the cell surface .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to the cell surface .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to the cell surface .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via homologous recombination .
any signalling pathway that modulates the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to water deprivation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of site selection that occurs as part of cytokinesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of site selection that occurs as part of cytokinesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of site selection that occurs as part of cytokinesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - dependent dna replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of cell polarity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of superoxide radicals .
any signalling pathway that decreases or inhibits the activity of a cell cycle cyclin - dependent protein kinase to modulate the switch from g1 phase to s phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - templated transcription initiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - templated transcription initiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna - templated transcription initiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of regulation of ubiquitin - specific protease activity  ( deubiquitinase )  activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin - specific protease  ( deubiquitinase )  activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ubiquitin - specific protease  ( deubiquitinase )  activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fatty acid transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ribonucleoprotein complex localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of pseudohyphal growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of pseudohyphal growth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of pseudohyphal growth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rrna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rrna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rrna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna processing .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna processing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of trna processing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - t3 phosphorylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular amino acid biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular amino acid biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular amino acid biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrogen peroxide catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrogen peroxide catabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolyzing )  activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolyzing )  activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolyzing )  activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokinesis ,  actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokinesis ,  actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokinesis ,  actomyosin contractile ring assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein neddylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein neddylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein neddylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peroxidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of camp - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of camp - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of camp - dependent protein kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamine transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamine transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamine transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of arp2 / 3 complex - mediated actin nucleation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k9 acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h4 - k16 acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h4 - k16 acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h4 - k16 acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna replication termination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear - transcribed mrna catabolic process ,  nonsense - mediated decay .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the srebp signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the srebp signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the srebp signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sodium ion transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of genetic imprinting .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription regulatory region dna binding .
an actin filament organization process that contributes to actomyosin contractile ring assembly during cytokinesis .
a myosin filament organization process that contributes to actomyosin contractile ring assembly during cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase i transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase i transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of termination of rna polymerase i transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytoplasmic translation .
any histone h3 - s10 phosphorylation that is involved in chromosome condensation .
any histone h4 acetylation that is involved in a response to dna damage stimulus .
any positive regulation of proteasomal ubiquitin - dependent protein catabolic process that is involved in a cellular response to hypoxia .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagosome assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagic vacuole assembly .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components located at the endosome .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic sister chromatid separation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleotide - excision repair .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h4 acetylation involved in response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligopeptide transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligopeptide transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to drug .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of double - strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of physically separating the septal cell wall material by enzymatic digestion ,  that occurs after daughter cells are separated by cytokinesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of physically separating the septal cell wall material by enzymatic digestion ,  that occurs after daughter cells are separated by cytokinesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain serine 2 residues .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain serine 2 residues .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain serine 2 residues .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h2b ubiquitination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h2b ubiquitination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h2b ubiquitination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h2b conserved c - terminal lysine ubiquitination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h2b conserved c - terminal lysine ubiquitination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h2b conserved c - terminal lysine ubiquitination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase  ( nadph )  activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydroxymethylglutaryl - coa reductase  ( nadph )  activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to gamma radiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to prospore membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to prospore membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k36 trimethylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k36 trimethylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of histone h3 - k36 trimethylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cation channel activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis .
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information content entity that is a mark ( s )  or character ( s )  used as a conventional representation of another entity .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the curation status of the term .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a symbol that is part of a crid and that is sufficient to look up a record from the crid's registry .
an information content entity that consists of a crid symbol and additional information about the crid registry to which it belongs .
a crid registry is a dataset of crid records ,  each consisting of a crid symbol and additional information which was recorded in the dataset through a assigning a centrally registered identifier process .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
a morphologic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative size ,  organization and distribution of its surface elements or the representation or invention of the appearance of its surface ;  visual and tactile surface characteristics .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a frequency which is relatively high .
a frequency which is relatively low .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a nutritional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability to synthesize a particular organic compound required for its growth .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more angle ( s )  in its length .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in abnormal position .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being merged with another entity .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by breaks or interruptions .
a quality of a process which starts earlier than the natural start time or the reference process .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's irregular surface .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of the bearer's long term survival inability .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's ability to survive or the long term survival ability of a given population .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sharp or tapered end or point .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a permeability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable to be permeated or pervaded by a gas or liquid  ( as by osmosis or diffusion )  .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a temperature which is relatively high .
a temperature which is relatively low .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes through the center of a circle and whose endpoints are on the circular boundary .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having deeply undulating edges forming lobes .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a long tapered rod .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's terminating in a point or edge .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having connection or association with another entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer includes all its components .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's components no longer being in a single contiguous unit .
an attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking connection or association with another entity .
a quality of a process inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to respond to stimulation .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a ball  ( a sphere whose equatorial diameter is equal to the polar diameter )  .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking some outer layer .
a sensitivity of a process which is higher than normal or average .
a sensitivity of a process which is lower than normal or average .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having additional processual parts .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a permeability which is relatively high .
a permeability which is relatively low .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a curvature which is relatively high .
a curvature which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gathered or tending to gather into a mass or whole .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distributed or spread over a considerable extent .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a short ,  stocky build .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
a diameter which is relatively large .
a diameter which is relatively small .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided or broken up into parts or divisions .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having multiple angles in its length .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no opening .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being entwined and difficult to unravel .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn together ,  compressed or squeezed physically .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a quadric surface in three dimensions obtained by rotating an ellipse about one of its principal axes .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently - sized round cross section .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of two curves ,  in opposite directions .
the bearer of this quality has_part = n ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape of features present on its surface or outer shell .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a structural quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing hollow areas .
an amount which normal .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an empty space or cavity within .
having extra or fewer parts .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a hole or holes ,  especially a row or array of small holes .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape being inversely clavate .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape resembling falling drop .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a point .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a cylindrical shape that is hollow .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a quadric surface in three dimensions obtained by rotating less than half of a circular arc about an axis passing through the endpoints of the arc
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two connected parts ,  roughly spherical ,  of different sizes .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking parts or having a reduced form compared to fully formed entities .
a physical quality of a process that is its spatial distribution .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter c .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter j .
the number of repeated events per unit time ,  occurring in a repeating series .
a spatial distribution of a process in which the process occupies a smaller length ,  area ,  or volume than the reference process .
a spatial distribution of a process in which the process occupies a greater length ,  area ,  or volume than the reference process .
a core histone that is a translation product of the human hist4h4 genes ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  or a semi - ortholog thereof .
an organic amino compound that consists of amino acid residues  ( unmodified amino - acid residues and / or modified amino - acid residues )  linked by peptide bonds or derivatives of such bonds .
a protein that is produced as the result of proteolytic processing of a longer protein .
an organic group that results from covalent modification or chemical alteration to the side chain or backbone atoms of an amino acid residue or derivative thereof ,  where such alteration maintains the integrity of the amino acid chain containing the residue .
a core histone that is a translation product of one of the h2a gene variants .
a core histone that is a translation product of one of the h3 gene variants .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of some eukaryota .
a protein that includes at least one glycosylated residue .
a protein that includes at least one ubiquitinylated lysine .
a protein that includes at least one sumoylated lysine .
a protein that functions as a component of the nucleosome .
a protein that contains a single copy of the histone  ( pfam:pf00125 )  domain ,  optionally followed by a c - terminus of histone h2a  ( pfam:pf16211 )  domain  ( for histone h2a )  with or without a macro domain  ( pfam:pf01661 )  .
a protein that contains a single copy of the linker histone  ( pfam:pf00538 )  domain followed by a long low - complexity region at its c terminus .
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
a folded sequence .
g - quartets are unusual nucleic acid structures consisting of a planar arrangement where each guanine is hydrogen bonded by hoogsteen pairing to another guanine in the quartet .
a gene which ,  when transcribed ,  can be translated into a protein .
a gene which can be transcribed ,  but will not be translated into a protein .
a transposon or insertion sequence .
a region of the chromosome between the centromere and the telomere .
any extent of continuous biological sequence .
a gene encoded within a transposable element .
the sequence of dna located either at the end of the transcript that causes rna polymerase to terminate transcription .
consensus region of primary transcript bordering junction of splicing .
a regulatory_region composed of the tss ( s )  and binding sites for tf_complexes of the basal transcription machinery .
a dna sequence in eukaryotic dna to which rna polymerase ii binds ,  to begin transcription .
a transposable element that is incorporated into a chromosome by a mechanism that requires reverse transcriptase .
a transcript that in its initial state requires modification to be functional .
a retrotransposon flanked by long terminal repeat sequences .
a region of a primary transcript that is transcribed ,  but removed from within the transcript by splicing together the sequences  ( exons )  on either side of it .
a primary transcript encoding a ribosomal rna .
a primary transcript encoding a transfer rna  ( so:0000253 )  .
a primary transcript encoding a small nuclear rna  ( so:0000274 )  .
a primary transcript encoding a small nucleolar mrna  ( so:0000275 )  .
a transcript which has undergone the necessary modifications ,  if any ,  for its function .
messenger rna is the intermediate molecule between dna and protein .
a dna site where a transcription factor binds .
an attribute describing a transcript .
a attribute describing the addition of a poly a tail to the 3' end of a mrna molecule .
rna that comprises part of a ribosome ,  and that can provide both structural scaffolding and catalytic activity .
transfer rna  ( trna )  molecules are approximately 80 nucleotides in length .
a primary transcript encoding a small ribosomal subunit rna .
a small nuclear rna molecule involved in pre - mrna splicing and processing .
a snorna  ( small nucleolar rna )  is any one of a class of small rnas that are associated with the eukaryotic nucleus as components of small nucleolar ribonucleoproteins .
a sequence directly repeated at both ends of a defined sequence ,  of the sort typically found in retroviruses .
a region of nucleic acid from which replication initiates ;  includes sequences that are recognized by replication proteins ,  the site from which the first separation of complementary strands occurs ,  and specific replication start sites .
a feature where there has been exchange of genetic material in the event of mitosis or meiosis
a primary transcript encoding a large ribosomal subunit rna .
region of sequence similarity by descent from a common ancestor .
a region in a genome which promotes recombination .
a non - coding rna less than 200 nucleotides long ,  usually with a specific secondary structure ,  that acts to regulate gene expression .
5_8s ribosomal rna  ( 5 .
an attribute describes a quality of sequence .
an attribute describing a gene .
a large polynucleotide in eukaryotes ,  which functions as the small subunit of the ribosome .
a biological_region of sequence that ,  in the molecule ,  interacts selectively and non - covalently with other molecules .
a binding site that ,  in the molecule ,  interacts selectively and non - covalently with polypeptide molecules .
a primary transcript that is never translated into a protein .
a region of chromosome where the spindle fibers attach during mitosis and meiosis .
a region that can be transcribed into a small nucleolar rna  ( snorna )  .
a region containing or overlapping no genes that is bounded on either side by a gene ,  or bounded by a gene and the end of the chromosome .
sequence of about 100 nucleotides of a added to the 3' end of most eukaryotic mrnas .
a specific structure at the end of a linear chromosome ,  required for the integrity and maintenance of the end .
regions of the chromosome that are important for structural elements .
antisense rna is rna that is transcribed from the coding ,  rather than the template ,  strand of dna .
the reverse complement of the primary transcript .
a small rna molecule that is the product of a longer exogenous or endogenous dsrna ,  which is either a bimolecular duplex or very long hairpin ,  processed  ( via the dicer pathway )  such that numerous sirnas accumulate from both strands of the dsrna .
ribosomal rna transcript that structures the small subunit of the ribosome .
ribosomal rna transcript that structures the large subunit of the ribosome .
5s ribosomal rna  ( 5s rrna )  is a component of the large ribosomal subunit in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes .
a component of the large ribosomal subunit .
an rna transcript that does not encode for a protein rather the rna molecule is the gene product .
a region of sequence containing one or more repeat units .
a region that can be transcribed into a  transfer rna  ( trna )  .
an intron  ( mitochondrial ,  chloroplast ,  nuclear or prokaryotic )  that encodes a double strand sequence specific endonuclease allowing for mobility .
an rna synthesized on a dna or rna template by an rna polymerase .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
a motif that is active in the dna form of the sequence .
a region of nucleotide sequence corresponding to a known motif .
the simplest repeated component of a repeat region .
a regulatory region where transcription factor binding sites are clustered to regulate various aspects of transcription activities .
an attribute describing a located_sequence_feature .
a region of a chromosome .
a region of a gene .
a region of a transcript .
a part of a primary transcript .
an attribute describing an mrna feature .
an mrna that is polyadenylated .
a signal for rna polymerase to terminate transcription .
a large polynucleotide which functions as part of the large subunit of the ribosome in some eukaryotes .
a nucleotide region with either intra - genome or intracellular mobility ,  of varying length ,  which often carry the information necessary for transfer and recombination with the host genome .
an mge that is integrated into the host chromosome .
a regulatory_region that modulates the transcription of a gene or genes .
a sequence_alteration is a sequence_feature whose extent is the deviation from another sequence .
a gene that codes for an rna that can be translated into a protein .
an attribute describing a feature that has either intra - genome or intracellular mobility .
a region containing at least one unique origin of replication and a unique termination site .
a gene that encodes a non - coding rna .
a small noncoding rna that guides chemical modification of other rnas .
a gene that encodes a small nuclear rna .
a noncoding rna that binds to a specific amino acid to allow that amino acid to be used by the ribosome during translation of rna .
a region which is the result of some arbitrary experimental procedure .
a region defined by its disposition to be involved in a biological process .
a splice site that is in part of the transcript not normally spliced .
a gene that encodes for ribosomal rna .
a binding site that ,  in the nucleotide molecule ,  interacts selectively and non - covalently with polypeptide residues .
an element that can exist within the promoter region of a gene .
a regulatory region that is involved in the control of the process of transcription .
a sequence motif is a nucleotide or amino - acid sequence pattern that may have biological significance .
a specialized region in the genomes of some yeast and fungi ,  the genes of which regulate mating type .
a regional centromere is a large modular centromere found in fission yeast and higher eukaryotes .
a conserved region within the central region of a modular centromere ,  where the kinetochore is formed .
a repeat region found within the modular centromere .
the inner inverted repeat region of a modular centromere and part of the central core surrounding a non - conserved central region .
the heterochromatic outer repeat region of a modular centromere .
merged definition: \ ntarget definition: a promoter element with consensus sequence tgacgtca ;  bound by the atf / creb family of transcription factors . \ n -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  \ nsource definition: a promoter element that contains a core sequence tgacgt ,  bound by a protein complex that regulates transcription of genes encoding pka pathway components .
a promoter element that consists of at least three copies of the pentanucleotide ngaan ,  bound by the heat shock transcription factor hsf .
a promoter element with consensus sequence acgcgt ,  bound by the transcription factor complex mbf  ( mcb - binding factor )  and found in promoters of genes expressed during the g1 / s transition of the cell cycle .
a promoter element with consensus sequence ttctttgtty ,  bound an hmg - box transcription factor such as s . pombe ste11 ,  and found in promoters of genes up - regulated early in meiosis .
a promoter element with consensus sequence cccctc ,  bound by the pka - responsive zinc finger transcription factor rst2 .
a 10 - bp promoter element bound by sterol regulatory element binding proteins  ( srebps )  ,  found in promoters of genes involved in sterol metabolism .
a promoter element with consensus sequence gnaacr ,  bound by the transcription factor complex pbf  ( pcb - binding factor )  and found in promoters of genes expressed during the m / g1 transition of the cell cycle .
a non - coding rna over 200nucleotides in length .
a transcript that is transcribed from the outer repeat region of a regional centromere .
a dna motif that is found in eukaryotic rdna repeats ,  and is a site of replication fork pausing .
a non - coding transcript derived from the transcript of the telomere .
a kind of intron whereby the excision is driven by lariat formation .
a gene cassette array that corresponds to a silenced version of a mating type region .
any of the dna segments produced by discontinuous synthesis of the lagging strand during dna replication .
a heterochromatic region of the chromosome ,   adjacent to the telomere  ( on the centromeric side )  that contains repetitive dna and sometimes genes and it is transcribed .
a dna motif that is found in eukaryotic rdna repeats ,  and is a site of replication fork pausing .
a genome region where chromosome pairing occurs preferentially during homologous chromosome pairing during early meiotic prophase of meiosis i .
a position or feature where two sequences have been compared .
a gene that encodes a long non - coding rna .
an origin of replication that initiates early in s phase .
an origin of replication that initiates late in s phase .
a gene cassette array containing h +  mating type specific information .
termination signal preferentially observed downstream of polyadenylation signal
a regulatory_region including the transcription start site  ( tss )  of a gene and serving as a platform for pre - initiation complex  ( pic )  assembly ,  enabling transcription of a gene under certain conditions .
a non - coding rna less than 200 nucleotides in length .
transcription units or transcribed coding sequences .
a region of sequence that is involved in the control of a biological process .
a gene that can be substituted for a related gene at a different site in the genome .
an array of non - functional genes whose members ,  when captured by recombination form functional genes .
q towards e2 if and only if q is a relational quality such that q inheres - in some e ,  and e != e2 and q is dependent on e2
a naphthol carrying a hydroxy group at position 2 .
a member of the class of 3 -  ( 3 , 4 - substituted - phenyl )  - 1 , 1 - dimethylureas that is urea in which both of the hydrogens attached to one nitrogen are substituted by methyl groups ,  and one of the hydrogens attached to the other nitrogen is substituted by a 3 , 4 - dichlorophenyl group .
any member of the class of ureas in which at least one of the nitrogens of the urea moiety is substituted by a phenyl or substituted phenyl group .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of 11beta - hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .146 )  .
any compound that induces the process of autophagy  ( the self - digestion of one or more components of a cell through the action of enzymes originating within the same cell )  .
a member of the class of phenylureas that is urea in which one of the nitrogens is substituted by two methyl groups while the other is substituted by a phenyl group which carries two unspecified groups at positions 3 and 4 of the phenyl ring .
a polyprenol phosphate in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a phospho group ,  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an aromatic hydrocarbon comprising two fused benzene rings .
a glycerophospholipid composed of two molecules of glycerol phosphate covalently linked to a molecule of glycerol ,  and in which each of the glycerol phosphate moieties may be esterified to one or two fatty acids .
a substance which is poisonous to fish and is primarily used to eliminate dominant species of fish in water .
any oligosaccharide ,  polysaccharide or their derivatives consisting of monosaccharides or monosaccharide derivatives linked by glycosidic bonds .
any purine ribonucleoside that is a derivative of adenosine .
any member of a group of glycosphingolipids ,  also known as monoglycosylceramides ,  which are important components in animal muscle and nerve cell membranes .
any member of the class of  naphthalenes that is naphthalene carrying one or more hydroxy groups .
any purine ribonucleoside that is a derivative of inosine .
any hydroxynaphthalene derivative that has a single hydroxy substituent .
any glycosphingolipid containing unsubstituted glycosyl moieties .
a chemically diverse class of peptides that exhibit antimicrobial properties .
the sodium salt of hydrogen azide  ( hydrazoic acid )  .
an amino cyclitol consisting of scyllo - inositol with the hydroxy groups at positions 1 and 3 replaced by unsubstituted amino groups .
any nutrient required in large quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
a member of the class of naphthols carrying a single hydroxy substituent at c - 1 or c - 2 .
any of the cerebrosides in which the monosaccharide head group is galactose .
any organonitrogen compound with formula rs - c ( =x ) nh2 where x = o  ( monothiocarbamic esters )  or s  ( dithiocarbamic esters )  ,  or their n - substituted derivatives .
a thiocarbamic ester formally derived from a monothiocarbamic acid .
one of a class of drugs that acts by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cell membranes or on the release and binding of calcium in intracellular pools .
an olefinic compound that is trans - hex - 3 - ene in which the hydrogens at positions 3 and 4 have been replaced by p - hydroxyphenyl groups .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - econazole .
a dioxolane that is 1 , 3 - dioxolane which is substituted at positions 2 ,  2 ,  and 4 by imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ,  2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ,  and  [ para -  ( 4 - acetylpiperazin - 1 - yl ) phenoxy ] methyl groups ,  respectively .
an organosulfonic acid comprising stilbene having 4 - anilino - 6 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ]  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl}amino groups at the 4 and 4' - positions and sulfo groups at the 2 -  and 2' - positions .
an arenesulfonate arising from deprotonation of the sulfo groups of 4 , 4' - bis ( {4 - anilino - 6 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ]  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl}amino ) stilbene - 2 , 2' - disulfonic acid .
a glycolipid and which the glyco component is specified as galactosyl .
an n - glycan residue involved in post - translational modification of proteins .
an n - glycan residue involved in post - translational modification of proteins .
an inorganic radical in which a free electron resides on one or more oxygen atoms of an oxygen species .
any cyclitol having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
a ceramide compound formed by the replacement of the glycosidic hydroxy group of a cyclic form of a monosaccharide  ( or derivative )  by a ceramide group .
the inorganic nitrate salt of potassium .
a cytochalasan alkaloid found in chaetomium globosum and chaetomium brasiliense .
any alkaloid characterized by the presence of an isoindole nucleus fused to a macrocyclic ring .
a glycerol compound having one of three possible substituent groups  -  either acyl ,  alkyl ,  or alk - 1 - enyl  -  at each of the three possible positions sn - 1 ,  sn - 2 or sn - 3 .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in the mould ,  chaetomium .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of ec 1 .14 .13 .70  ( sterol 14alpha - demethylase )  .
an amino cyclitol glycoside that is the 1 - o -  ( 2 - amino - 2 - deoxy - alpha - d - glucopyranoside )  and the 3 - o -  ( 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 6 - dideoxy - beta - l - idopyranosyl )  - beta - d - ribofuranoside of 4 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dihydroxycyclohexane  ( the 1r , 2r , 3s , 4r , 6s diastereoisomer )  .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - tebuconazole .
a 1 - {2 -  ( 4 - chlorobenzyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl}imidazole that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of econazole .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( imidazol - 1 - yl ) ethanol in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a 4 - chlorobenzyl group .
a 1 - {2 -  ( 4 - chlorobenzyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl}imidazole that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of econazole .
a dioxolane that is 1 , 3 - dioxolane which is substituted at positions 2 ,  2 ,  and 4 by 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ,  1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ,  and  [ 4 -  ( 4 - isopropylpiperazin - 1 - yl ) phenoxy ] methyl groups ,  respectively .
a sterol biosynthesis inhibitor that acts by inhibiting the c14 demethylation step within fungal steroid biosynthesis .
a tertiary alcohol that is pentan - 3 - ol substituted by a 4 - chlorophenyl ,  methyl ,  methyl ,  and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl at positions 1 ,  4 ,  4 and 3 respectively .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 3 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) pentan - 3 - ol .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 3 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) pentan - 3 - ol .
a member of the class of indanones that is 1 - indanone substituted at position 2 by bromo and  [  ( 4 - methylphenyl ) sulfonyl ] methyl groups .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of ditrans , polycis - undecaprenyl - diphosphate synthase  [  ( 2e , 6e )  - farnesyl - diphosphate specific ]  .
either of the two diastereoisomers of 1 - acetyl - 4 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl ) piperazine in which the imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl group and the aryloxymethyl group are in a cis relationship to each other  -  i .e .
any conazole antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any triazole antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
a monothiocarbamic ester that is the methyl ( 3 - tolyl ) carbamothioate ester of 2 - naphthol .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which assembly of heterochromatin mediated by small rna is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the establishment or maintenance of actin cytoskeleton polarity is abnormal .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation .
a cell population phenotype in which a larger than normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation .
obsolete .a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell proceeds through the mitotic metaphase / anaphase transition in the presence of an uncorrected problem  ( such as chromosome structure or kinetochore attachment )  ,  and as a result undergoes abnormal nuclear division and subsequently dies .
obsolete .an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
obsolete .an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
obsolete .an inviable phenotype in which a cell undergoes mitotic catastrophe  ( i .e .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell enters mitosis when smaller than wild type ,  and then septates to give rise to a cut phenotype .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell enters mitosis at the same size as wild type ,  and then septates to give rise to a cut phenotype .
an inviable phenotype in which a cell enters mitosis when longer than wild type ,  and then septates to give rise to a cut phenotype .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and contains a single nucleus and an asymmetrically located septum .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in interphase .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during the meiotic cell cycle measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and has one nucleus and one septum .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation with wild type h +  cells .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation with wild type h -  cells .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein ssb1 accumulates is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during the meiotic cell cycle ,  and that contain determinant of selective removal  ( dsr )  sequences ,  measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to pericentric heterochromatin is abolished .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in m phase .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is subject to salt stress .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to ionizing radiation .
a conjugation phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population undergoes conjugation with wild type h +  cells .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain any detectable respiratory chain complex iv in the mitochondria .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during meiosis ,  and that contain determinant of selective removal  ( dsr )  sequences ,  measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is elongated ,  has two nuclei but no septum ,  and the mitotic cell cycle is arrested with nuclei at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to ultraviolet light .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to thiabendazole .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated ,  has a nucleus that is broken into multiple small fragments ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in interphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to heterochromatin in pericentric regions is increased .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to methyl methanesulfonate .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to ionizing radiation during mitotic s phase .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
obsolete .an inviable phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell undergoes septation despite abolished mitotic sister chromatid separation ,  producing inviable daughter cells ,  and in which the septum forms in a position that partitions the nucleus into one compartment .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to bleomycin .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  is elongated ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in mitotic metaphase .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  contains one nucleus ,  has no septum ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and elongated ,  has a nucleus that is broken into multiple small fragments ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in interphase during a cellular response to ultraviolet light .
obsolete .a cut phenotype with abnormal chromosome segregation that is observed when a cell is exposed to hydroxyurea .
obsolete .a cut phenotype with abnormal chromosome segregation that is observed when a cell is exposed to methyl methanesulfonate .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to nuclear exosome foci is normal  ( i .e .
obsolete .a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell proceeds through the mitotic metaphase / anaphase transition in the presence of an uncorrected problem  ( such as chromosome structure or kinetochore attachment )  ,  and as a result undergoes abnormal chromosome segregation and subsequently dies .
obsolete .a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell proceeds through the mitotic metaphase / anaphase transition in the presence of an uncorrected problem  ( such as chromosome structure or kinetochore attachment )  ,  and as a result undergoes abnormal nuclear envelope partitioning and subsequently dies .
an increased chemical resistance phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells grow in the presence of a higher concentration of tebuconazole than normal .
obsolete .a cut phenotype that is observed when a cell is exposed to streptonigrin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which assembly of heterochromatin mediated by small rna is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of assembly of one or more mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which assembly of heterochromatin mediated by small rna is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of one or more rnas that are normally expressed during meiosis measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the lateral cell cortex is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the increase in small deletions or duplications  ( "replication slippage" )  that normally results from processing arrested replication forks is enhanced .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to paromomycin .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the threonine residue at position 4 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of the tyrosine residue at position 1 within one or more copies of the heptapeptide repeat  ( ysptsps )  of the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii normal  ( i .e .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  branched ,  has more than one nucleus and more than one septum ,  and has a larger volume and is longer ,  than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of double - stranded dna binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which double - stranded dna binding by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to a cohesin complex is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the mitotic nuclear bridge for a longer time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear envelope division does not occur .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear pore localization to the portion of the nuclear envelope enclosing the mitotic nuclear bridge is abnormal ,  resulting in an abnormal distribution of nuclear pores in the bridge envelope .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear envelope organization is abnormal in the region of the nuclear envelope that surrounds the mitotic nuclear bridge during mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the two dna masses separated by mitotic anaphase remain linked by the nuclear bridge ,  and then merge back into a single nucleus .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein rad52  ( also called rad22 )  accumulates is greater than normal during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is increased during a cellular response to hydroxyurea .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ubiquitination of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which the g1 to g0 transition is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to tolnaftate .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to econazole .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to diethylstilbestrol .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to l - arginine .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to chaetoglobosin d . cells stop growing  ( and may die )  at a concentration of chaetoglobosin d that allows wild type cells to grow .
a vegetative cell population phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing serine as the nitrogen source .
a cellular process phenotype in which the occurrence of cell cycle arrest in response to a pheromone occurs in g1 phase ,  but in the absence of starvation  ( i .e . ,  in nutrient - rich conditions ,  under which wild - type fission yeast cells do not arrest )  .
a molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of dna binding at a mlu1 cell cycle box  ( mcb )  by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which dna binding at an rna polymerase ii proximal promoter that contains a mlu1 cell cycle box  ( mcb )  by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitotic chromosome condensation begins earlier than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body that normally occurs in anaphase instead begins in metaphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septation initiation network signaling is abnormal sin signaling is mediated by the small gtpase ras ,  and results in the initiation of contraction of the contractile ring at the beginning of cytokinesis and cell division by septum formation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septation initiation network signaling takes place at both mitotic spindle pole bodies .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cortical endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  organization is abnormal .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cortical endoplasmic reticulum  ( er )  is dissociated from the plasma membrane .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which actomyosin contractile ring contraction begins earlier than normal and the rate ,  or speed ,  of ring contraction is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the mitotic spindle pole body for a shorter time than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which one or more proteins is localized to the medial cortical nodes for a shorter time than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vacuole fission ,  i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the actin cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the actin cytoskeleton is abnormal .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of sterols in the medial membrane band is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle pole body is decreased during anaphase b of mitosis .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septation initiation network signaling occurs to a lower extent than normal during anaphase b of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the duration of septation initiation network signaling is longer than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cytoplasm is decreased during telophase of mitosis .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cell length is normal ,  and the cell contains more than one septum .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which septation initiation network signaling begins earlier than normal .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of sterols in the medial membrane band is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the endosome ( s )  is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to late endosomes does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a protein that is not normally found in endosomes is observed there .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitophagy ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitophagy ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitophagy ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitophagy ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitophagy ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitophagy ,  i .e .
a cellular process phenotype in which mitophagy ,  i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which clrc complex binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant does not occur .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing does not occur at a site where silencing can normally be triggered by the ectopic tethering of a protein .
a transcription regulation phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin silencing is increased at a site where silencing can be triggered by the ectopic tethering of a protein .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitochondrial outer membrane is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitochondrion is decreased ,  and the protein is instead visible diffusely localized in the cytoplasm .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of superoxide measured in a cell that is subject to nitrogen starvation is lower than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate or other property of a microfilament motor activity is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the outer surface of the spore wall is smooth ,  lacking the structures than protrude outward from normal spore walls .
a cellular process phenotype in which breakdown of the outer layer of the prospore membrane  ( forespore membrane ;  fsm )  is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype in which the breakdown of dna occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to nitrogen starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the initiation of nuclear dna replication begins later than normal when cells are returned to nitrogen - rich medium following nitrogen starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of an rna in a cell is abnormal during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the posttranscriptional methylation of a guanosine residue in a trna molecule to form 7 - methylguanosine does not occur .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the total volume of all mitochondria in the cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which mitochondria are smaller ,  and the total volume of all mitochondria in the cell is lower ,  than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more strep motifs occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more strep motifs occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more strep motifs is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transcription from a promoter that contains one or more strep motifs occurs to a greater extent than normal during a cellular response to nitric oxide .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to diuron .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to sodium azide  ( nan3 )  .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the export of protein from the nucleus begins later than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to chromatin is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to oxidative stress .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal when the cell is subject to oxidative stress .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is higher than normal when the cell is subject to oxidative stress .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial respiratory chain complex iii assembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase  ( respiratory chain complex iv )  assembly is decreased .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which does not contain a detectable mitochondrial respiratory chain complex iii .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein oxidation is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype which the occurrence of an rna catabolic process is decreased when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nuclear chromatin organization is abnormal during g2 phase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell population phenotype in which a normal proportion of cells in the population remains viable during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at ribosomal dna occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of lysine at position 12 of histone h4 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 at the silent mating - type cassettes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of lysine at position 14 of histone h3 at ribosomal dna occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of lysine at position 16 of histone h4 in regions containing protein coding genes occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the acetylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 at in one or more promoter regions occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which chromatin moves within the nucleus to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the anisotropic movement of chromatin occurs to a lower extent than normal during mitosis .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of dna damage measured at ribosomal dna in a cell is greater than normal during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a greater extent than normal at ribosomal dna during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the methylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal at ribosomal dna during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal in centromere outer repeat regions during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which the dimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 occurs to a lower extent than normal in subtelomeric regions occurs during g0 phase .
a cellular process phenotype in which chromosome segregation is abnormal during one or both of the cell divisions that a cell undergoes prior to entering quiescence  ( g0 )  .
a cell phenotype in which a vegetatively growing cell has one or more septa ,  and one nucleus that is not in the normal location .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable ,  contains one nucleus in the normal location ,  has no septum ,  and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in m phase .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to pericentric heterochromatin is abnormal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to pericentric heterochromatin is abolished during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to pericentric heterochromatin is abolished during prophase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to pericentric heterochromatin is abolished during mitosis .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  and contains a single nucleus and an asymmetrically located septum .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which trimethylation of lysine at position 9 of histone h3 is decreased at heterochromatin islands near genes that are normally expressed during the meiotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the maintenance of localization of a protein at a location in heterochromatin at heterochromatin islands occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is higher than normal at one or more specific sites .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which nucleosome occupancy is higher than normal at transcription start sites .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to linear elements is decreased at one or more meiotic recombination hotspots .
a cell morphology phenotype in which a cell forms a mating projection with a flatter  ( less rounded )  tip than normal .
a cell population phenotype in which cells in a population do not divide at a uniform size ,  although each cell divides to form equal - size daughter cells ,  which then subsequently divide at a normal size .
a cell population phenotype in which cells in a population do not divide at a uniform size ,  although each cell divides to form equal - size daughter cells ,  which then subsequently divide at an abnormal size .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome does not occur during anaphase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome does not occur during the second meiotic nuclear division .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains one nucleus and one septum .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  and contains one nucleus and one septum .
a cellular process phenotype in which the establishment or maintenance of actin cytoskeleton polarity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the tip of a shmoo ,  or mating projection ,  is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which a vegetative cell is elongated and progression through the mitotic cell cycle is arrested in g1 phase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is viable ,  has a larger volume than normal ,  and undergoes one or more rounds of rereplication of the entire genome .
a cell morphology phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is normal length ,  and has one nucleus and one septum .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the coordination of transcription rates to scale linearly with cell size is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the rate of transcription scales linearly with nuclear size instead of total cell size .
a molecular function phenotype in which invertase activity  ( beta - fructofuranosidase activity )  is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of invertase activity  ( beta - fructofuranosidase activity )  is increased .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which a cell population does not grow in a medium containing sucrose as the carbon source .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the directed movement of sterols within cells is normal  ( i .e .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of sterols in cellular membranes is abnormal .
a localization phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of sterols in cellular membranes is normal  ( i .e .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which replication fork arrest at the rts1 barrier  ( normally located in the mating - type region )  occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which more ribonucleotides than normal are incorporated into one or both strands during mitotic dna replication .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate or other catalytic property of a rna - dna hybrid ribonuclease activity is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which assembly ,  exploratory movement ,  or disassembly of the cdc42 - containing cortical polarity patch is abnormal during mating .
a physical cellular phenotype in which components of the actin fusion focus are more widely distributed along the shmoo tip than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of rna transcribed from early meiotic genes measured in a cell is higher than normal  ( i .e .
a cell growth phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is increased relative to normal under conditions of starvation for one or more nutrients .
a cell phenotype in which the cell contains more nuclear exosome foci than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to nuclear exosome foci is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the kinetochore of a chromosome does not occur during metaphase of the first meiotic nuclear division .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells can grow in a normally  ( i .e .
a phenotype that affects a molecular function which in turn binds to an enzyme and thereby directly regulates its catalytic activity .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a dna strand exchange activator is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a dna strand exchange activator is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a dna strand exchange activator is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a dna strand exchange activator is absent .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a dna strand exchange inhibitor is normal  ( i .e .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a dna strand exchange inhibitor is increased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a dna strand exchange inhibitor is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a dna strand exchange inhibitor is absent .
a cell population phenotype in which a smaller than normal proportion of cells in a homothallic population undergoes conjugation with non - sister cells .
a cell phenotype in which a vegetative cell is inviable and an abnormally low volume ,  and in which the g2 / m transition of the mitotic cell cycle begins earlier than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is longer than normal ,  has one nucleus ,  and the mitotic cell cycle is arrested with nuclei at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell is inviable ,  is longer than normal ,  and the mitotic cell cycle is arrested with nuclei at the mitotic g2 / m phase transition .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex does not occur when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is decreased when the cell is subject to glucose starvation .
a cell phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the removal of tubulin dimers from a microtubule occurs to a lower extent than normal in the lateral part of the cell .
a molecular function phenotype in which the activity of a gtpase activator is decreased .
a cell phenotype in which a protein that is normally dynamically localized to one or both cell tips shows a normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the cell cortex of a non - growing cell tip is decreased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the number of sites at which the protein ssb1 accumulates normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the cell does not contain any detectable mitochondria .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which a cell contains fewer ,  but larger ,  ermes foci than normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylethanolamine measured in the mitochondrion differs from normal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the amount of phosphatidylserine measured in the mitochondrion differs from normal .
a phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells show increased sensitivity to potassium chloride .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which smn complex assembly is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which smn complex assembly is abolished .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the occurrence of smn complex assembly is decreased .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the movement of proteins via vesicles from late endosomes to the golgi is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of nucleosome - dependent atpase activity is decreased .
a phenotype in which a physical object quality ,  such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of a cell or a cellular component is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ermes foci in a cell are normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to late endosomes is normal  ( i .e .
a vegetative cell population growth phenotype in which cell growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing l - proline as the nitrogen source .
a physical cellular phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of late endosomes is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a protein kinase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein to the mitotic spindle is decreased during anaphase .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin along the length of genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin at the 3' ends of genes is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin at the 3' ends of genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin at the 3' ends of genes is abnormal .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin at the 3' ends of genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase iii is increased .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin at the 3' ends of genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase iii is increased during metaphase of the mitotic cell cycle .
a cell phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the distribution of a protein localized to chromatin along the length of genes that can be transcribed by rna polymerase ii is altered such that more of the protein is present at the 5' end ,  and less at the 3' end ,  than normal .
a physical cellular phenotype in which the mitochondrial membrane potential ,  i .e .
any endonucleolytic cleavage involved in the conversion of a primary ribosomal rna  ( rrna )  transcript into a mature rrna molecule .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of a box h / aca rna molecule .
a cohesin complex required for cohesion between sister chromatids that remain in the nucleus .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
catalysis of the endonucleolytic cleavage of rna in rna - dna hybrids to 5' - phosphomonoesters .
catalysis of the transfer of ubiquitin from one protein to another via the reaction x - ub  +  y  -  -  >  y - ub  +  x ,  where both x - ub and y - ub are covalent linkages .
binds to and increases the activity of a gtpase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of gtp .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
a protein complex located in the mitochondrial inner membrane that forms part of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
the cellular dna metabolic process resulting in the breakdown of dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long unbranched macromolecule formed from one or two strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides ,  the 3' - phosphate group of each constituent deoxyribonucleotide being joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage to the 5' - hydroxyl group of the deoxyribose moiety of the next one .
a protein complex that is required for sister chromatid cohesion in eukaryotes .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form respiratory chain complex iv  ( also known as cytochrome c oxidase )  ,  the terminal member of the respiratory chain of the mitochondrion and some aerobic bacteria .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving snorna ,  small nucleolar rna ,  any of a class of small rnas that are associated with the eukaryotic nucleus as components of small nucleolar ribonucleoproteins .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction in which the oxidation state of metal ion is altered .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction in which the metal ion is reduced and nad +  or nadp +  acts as an electron acceptor .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 5' - phosphomonoesters .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within nucleic acids by creating internal breaks to yield 5' - phosphomonoesters .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cytochrome complex .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the cytochrome bc ( 1 )  complex ,  a transmembrane lipoprotein complex that it catalyzes the reduction of cytochrome c by accepting reducing equivalents from coenzyme q ,  by the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of its constituents .
catalysis of the transfer of a ubiquitin - like from one protein to another via the reaction x - ulp  +  y  -  -  >  y - ulp  +  x ,  where both x - ulp and y - ulp are covalent linkages .
any process involved in forming the mature 3' end of a snorna family molecule ,  also referred to as an srna in archaea .
a ubiquitin ligase complex in which a cullin from the cul4b subfamily and a ring domain protein form the catalytic core ;  substrate specificity is conferred by unknown subunits .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of mitochondrial dna .
a protein complex that contains the survival motor neuron  ( smn )  protein and at least eight additional integral components ,  including the gemin2 - 8 and unrip proteins ;  the complex is found in the cytoplasm and in nuclear gems ,  and is involved in spliceosomal snrnp assembly in the cytoplasm and in pre - mrna splicing in the nucleus .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form respiratory chain complex iv  ( also known as cytochrome c oxidase )  in the mitochondrial inner membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving box h / aca type small nucleolar rna .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the cytochrome bc ( 1 )  complex  ( also known as ubiquinol - cytochrome c reductase )  ,  in the mitochondrial inner membrane .
a protein complex that possesses methyltransferase activity .
a protein complex formed by the association of several methylated sm proteins with the smn complex ;  the latter contains the survival motor neuron  ( smn )  protein and at least eight additional integral components ,  including the gemin2 - 8 and unrip proteins ;  additional proteins ,  including galectin - 1 and galectin - 3 ,  are also found in the smn - sm complex .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary box h / aca type small  rna transcript into a mature box h / aca rna .
a multimeric complex that is able to catalyze the addition of methyl groups to histone proteins .
any process involved in the conversion of a primary snorna family rna transcript into a mature snorna  ( eukaryota )  or srna  ( archaea )  .
an cullin - dependent e3 ubiquitin ligase / histone h3 - k9 methyltransferase complex essential for heterochromatin assembly by rnai .
a protein complex that transfers electrons from ubiquinol to cytochrome c and translocates two protons across a membrane .
a part of the respiratory chain located in the plasma membrane ,  containing about 10 polypeptide subunits including four redox centers: cytochrome b / b6 ,  cytochrome c1 and an 2fe - 2s cluster .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the catalysis of the hydrolysis of ester linkages within ribonucleic acid by creating internal breaks .
the directed movement of metal cations ,  out of a cell or organelle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the dna replication preinitiation complex ,  a protein - dna complex that is assembled at dna replication origins immediately prior to the initiation of dna replication .
a ubiquitin ligase complex in which a cullin from the cul4 family and a ring domain protein form the catalytic core ;  substrate specificity is conferred by an adaptor protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the hydrolysis of internal 3' , 5' - phosphodiester bonds in one or two strands of ribonucleotides .
a process in which the nuclear inner or outer membrane is synthesized ,  aggregates ,  and bonds together during mitotic nuclear division .
the binding activity of a protein or complex that connects two spatially separated regions of dna sequence .
the posttranscriptional addition of methyl groups to specific residues in an snrna molecule .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the cmg complex ,  a protein complex that contains the gins complex ,  cdc45p ,  and the heterohexameric mcm complex ,  and that is involved in unwinding dna during replication .
the division of a vacuole within a cell to form two or more separate vacuoles .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endoribonuclease activity .
any dna replication preinitiation complex assembly that is involved in meiotic cell cycle .
any dna replication preinitiation complex assembly that is involved in mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna catabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna catabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna catabolic process .
any endonucleolytic rna phosphodiester bond hydrolysis that is involved in trna processing .
a focus at the mating projection tip where the cell wall is degraded during conjugation with cellular fusion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of site selection that occurs as part of cytokinesis .
an identifier is an information content entity that is the outcome of a dubbing process and is used to refer to one instance of entity shared by a group of people to refer to that individual entity .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing a surface free of roughness or irregularities .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's surface becoming more extended in a plane .
a rate of occurrence that is relatively high .
a rate of occurrence that is relatively low .
a regulatory region where transcription factor binding sites are clustered to regulate various aspects of transcription activities .
a region of a gene that has a specific function .
a collection of related genes .
