an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
an information content entity is an entity that is generically dependent on some artifact and stands in relation of aboutness to some entity .
a continuant that inheres in continuant entities and is not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's prevailing tendency ,  mood ,  or inclination .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities .
a processual entity that is a maximally connected spatiotemporal whole and has bona fide beginnings and endings corresponding to real discontinuities .
a normal process ,  activity ,  or state of the body .
the sense of body position and movement ,  mediated by the labyrinth  ( equilibrium )  and peripheral receptors in the muscles and elsewhere  ( limb and joint position )  ;  kinesthesia includes the latter ,  but not equilibrium .
the change of position of a joint .
the movement of a limb away from the midline or axis of the body .
the movement of a limb toward the midline or axis of the body .
the act of straightening or extending a flexed limb .
extension of a bodily joint beyond its normal range of motion .
the act of bending a joint or limb in the body by the action of flexors .
flexion of a limb or part beyond its normal range .
a toe - down motion of the foot at the ankle .
the turning of the foot or dorsiflexionthe toes upward .
a single complete turn  ( axial or orbital )  .
the turning of a limb about its axis of rotation toward the midline of the body .
turning outwardly or away from the midline of the body ,  such as when a leg is externally rotated with the toes turned outward or away from the body's midline .
the act of turning inside out ,  upside down ,  or end - for - end .
a turning outward or inside out ,  such as a turning of the foot outward at the ankle .
a process leading to shortening and / or development of tension in muscle tissue ;  occurs by a sliding filament mechanism whereby actin filaments slide inward among the myosin filaments .
muscle contraction resulting in shortening of a muscle ,  used to perform positive work or to accelerate a body part .
muscle contraction in the presence of a resistive force that results in elongation of a muscle ,  used to perform negative work or to decelerate a body part .
muscle contraction not accompanied by movement of the joint .
muscle contraction without appreciable change in the force of contraction ;  the distance between the muscle's origin and insertion becomes lessened .
muscle contraction is one in which the muscle contracts and shortens at constant speed .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sudden onset ,  sharp rise ,  and short course .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having slow progressive course of indefinite duration .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an onset and time course between acute and chronic .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
gradual ,  very slow onset of disease manifestations .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the number of the bearer's repetitive actions in a particular time .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of momentum .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer that has mass near a gravitational body .
a quality that is the extent of space between two entities .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's scalar absolute value of the rate of change of the bearer's position .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's power or force .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing or displaying a distinctive feature in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is less than moderate in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is extremely bad or unpleasant in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is less than extreme in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is relatively low .
an intensity which is relatively high .
anatomical structure ,  which has as its parts a heterogeneous collection of organs ,  organ parts ,  cells ,  cell parts or body part subdivisions that are adjacent to ,  or continuous with one another ;  does not constitute a cell part ,  cell ,  tissue ,  organ ,  organ system or organ system subdivision ,  cardinal body part ,  body part subdivision or anatomical junction .
anatomical junction which consists of parts of two or more adjacent bones or cartilages which are interconnected by organs and / or organ parts that consist of various types of connective tissue .
a gliding joint between the distal ends of the tibia and fibula and the proximal end of the talus .
a ball - and - socket joint between the head of the femur and the acetabulum .
a joint connecting the lower part of the femur with the upper part of the tibia .
the articulation between the articular surface of the patella and the patellar surface of the femur .
the limb that is composed of the hip ,  thigh ,  leg and foot .
the depression in the posterior region of the knee .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the rear of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the middle relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the side relative to another entity .
in anatomy indicating higher than a given reference point .
in anatomy indicating lower than a given reference point .
in medicine ,  refers to a part of the body that is closer to the center of the body than another part .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located further from a more centrally located entity .
an aggregation of similarly specialized cells and the associated intercellular substance .
a large pad of fat lying behind and below the patella .
the supporting or framework tissue of the animal body ,  formed of fibrous and ground substance with more or less numerous cells of various kinds ;  it is derived from the mesenchyme ,  and this in turn from the mesoderm ;  the varieties of connective tissue are: areolar or loose ;  adipose ;  dense ,  regular or irregular ,  white fibrous ;  elastic ;  mucous ;  and lymphoid tissue ;  cartilage ;  and bone ;  the blood and lymph may be regarded as connective tissues the ground substance of which is a liquid .
a type of connective tissue composed of chondrocytes and an extracellular matrix ,  composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  and ground substance .
the cartilage that covers the ends of each bone in a joint .
cartilage  ( tissue )  which consists of chondrocytes and collagen ,  the intercellular matrix of which is an amorphous gel with a perichondrium .
a crescent - shaped wedge of cartilaginous material that serves as a cushion in the knee ,  between the tuberosities of the femur and the tibia .
a band of fibrous connective tissue that joins bone to muscle .
synovial sac ,  the synovial membrane of which together with articular cartilage encloses a synovial cavity .
a major stabilizing ligament in the knee that attaches the surfaces of the femur and tibia .
a strong ligament of the knee that originates from the anterolateral surface of the medial condyle of the femur ,  passes posteriorly and inferiorly between the condyles ,  and attaches to the posterior intercondylar area of the tibia .
the ligament that travels from the medial epicondyle of the femur to the medial margin and medial surface of the tibia .
the ligament that travels from the lateral epicondyle of the femur to the lateral margin and lateral surface of the tibia .
a band of fibrous tissue that attaches the apex of the patella to the lower part of the tubercle of the tibia .
tissue responsible for the body movements and the shape and size changes of interna organs .
muscles of the lower back whose actions involve the flexion of the hips and lumbar spine .
any of the skeletal muscles that form the buttocks .
a muscle with origin from the ilium ,  the sacrum and the coccyx ,  and the sacrotuberous ligament ,  with insertion to the iliotibial band of the broad fascia and the gluteal ridge of the femur ,  with nerve supply from the inferior gluteal nerve ,  and whose action extends the thigh .
a muscle with origin in the ilium ,  with insertion to the surface of the greater trochanter ,  with nerve supply from the superior gluteal nerve ,  and whose action abducts and rotates the thigh .
a muscle with origin from the ilium ,  with insertion to the greater trochanter ,  with nerve supply from the superior gluteal nerve ,  and whose action abducts the thigh .
one of the 10 muscles of the gluteal region ,  arising from the outer lip of the iliac crest ,  the anterior superior iliac spine ,  and the deep fascia lata .
a collective name of the four - headed skeletal muscle of the thigh ,  comprised of the rectus femoris ,  vastus intermedius ,  vastus lateralis ,  and vastus medialis .
a muscle with origin from the shaft of the femur ,  with insertion into the tibial tuberosity ,  with nerve supply from the femoral nerve ,  and whose action extends the leg .
a muscle with origin from the posterior ridge of the femur as far as the greater trochanter ,  with insertion into the tibia ,  with nerve supply from the femoral nerve ,  and whose action extends the leg .
one of the four quadriceps muscles ,  located in the middle of the front of the thigh .
one of the four muscles of the quadriceps femoris group ,  situated in the center of the thigh under the rectus femoris .
the muscles of the posterior thigh ,  which consist of biceps femoris - laterally ,  and the semitendinosus and semimembranosus muscles - medially
a muscle in the back of the thigh .
one of three posterior femoral muscles of the thigh ,  remarkable for the great length of the tendon of insertion .
a muscle with origin from the tuberosity of the ischium ,  with insertion into the medial condyle of the tibia and by membrane to the tibial collateral ligament of the knee joint ,  the popliteal fascia ,  and the lateral condyle of the femur ,  with nerve supply from the tibial nerve ,  and whose action flexes the leg ,  rotates it medially ,  and makes the capsule of the knee joint tense .
the popliteus muscle in the leg is used to unlock the knee by laterally rotating the femur on the tibia during a closed chain movement  ( such as one with the foot in contact with the ground )  .
the calf is a pair of muscles  -  the gastrocnemius and soleus  -  at the back of the lower human leg .
a large muscle in the back of the lower leg .
one of three superficial muscles at the back of the leg ,  between the soleus and the gastrocnemius .
the most superficial of the five medial femoral muscles .
a muscle located in the back of the lower leg beneath the gastrocnemius muscle .
in human anatomy ,  the tibialis anterior is a muscle that originates in the upper two - thirds of the lateral surface of the tibia and inserts into the medial cuneiform and first metatarsal bones of the foot .
the tibialis posterior is the most central of all the leg muscles ,  and is located in the posterior compartment of the leg .
the bones ,  muscles ,  tendons ,  and other tissues that reach from the base of the skull to the tailbone .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being situated at right angles to the horizon .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in the plane of the horizon .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on left side of from the a another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on right side of a another entity .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces south .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the south when it faces north .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction from a higher to a lower point .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction from a lower to a higher point .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces east .
a directional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's direction that is similar to the direction of an object to the north when it faces west .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a physical object made by human beings .
a manufactured object used primarily in the diagnosis ,  treatment ,  or prevention of physiologic or anatomic disorders .
physical anatomical entity which has mass .
a representation that is either the output of a clinical history taking or a physical examination or an image finding ,  or some combination thereof .
a material entity which is clinically abnormal and part of an extended organism .
clinical ,  laboratory or molecular evidence or absence of evidence of disease .
something that happens at a given place and time .
an operation or series of operations that an organism or machine carries out or participates in .
an activity carried out for recreation or exercise ,  or as part of daily life .
an activity of or relating to the practice of medicine or involving the care of patients .
a procedure ,  method ,  or technique designed to prevent a disease or a disorder ,  or to improve physical function ,  or used in the process of treating a disease or injury .
application of an accurately determined and specifically directed manual force to the body ,  in order to improve mobility in areas that are restricted ;  in joints ,  in connective tissues or in skeletal muscles .
a procedure that mobilizes or frees up an abnormally fixed structure .
a stretching technique used to increase range of joint motion .
muscle energy technique is a type of osteopathic manipulative treatment used in osteopathic medicine and physical therapy .
a direct technique that usually involves lateral stretching ,  linear stretching ,  deep pressure ,  traction and / or separation of muscle origin and insertion while monitoring tissue response and motion changes by palpation .
a massage involving direct physical action on soft tissues such as muscles ,  tendons and fascia .
a system of diagnosis and treatment first described by andrew taylor still and his early students ,  which engages continual palpatory feedback to achieve release of myofascial tissues .
a technique developed for pain and inflammation relief in musculoskeletal conditions .
a massage therapy specifically designed to treat trigger points ,  specific locations in the body which when stimulated will give rise to sensations or symptoms elsewhere in the body .
a manual therapy method for treatment of adverse neurodynamics by attempting to restore the dynamic balance between the relative movement of neural tissues and surrounding mechanical interfaces .
a technique in which one is relaxed and makes no contribution to the range of motion .
joint manipulation is the attempt to restore the full joint mobility by a single forceful movement .
a therapeutic modality that delivers a physical agent  ( e .g .
assisting the patient to modify a body function using feedback from instrumentation .
a form of therapy consisting of the local or general use of cold .
cryocuff treatment uses a device that circulates ice cold water to provide cold therapy in the treatment of injuries .
application of an ice pack to an injured area .
the application of heat to appropriate painful areas to improve blood flow and function and to reduce pain .
applying heat to a client's body part or region for therapeutic effect ( s )   ( for example ,  to increase circulation )  .
the therapeutic elevation of temperature in the tissues by means of an oscillating electric current of extremely high frequency .
treatment using irradiation with laser light of low power intensity so that the effects are not due to heat ,  as they are in laser therapy .
therapy using pulsed electromagnetic energy .
application of electric current in treatment without the generation of perceptible heat .
the treatment of disease with certain types of light .
a procedure in which small electric impulses are used to stimulate muscles that are weak or paralyzed .
stimulation of skin and underlying tissues with controlled ,  low - voltage electrical vibration via electrodes .
interferential therapy  ( ift )  is a type of physical therapy .
physical activity as practiced in recreation ,  amateur and professional sports ,  or planned activity to improve physical condition or health .
functional training is a classification of exercise which involves training the body for the activities performed in daily life .
an activity in which the body advances at a slow to moderate pace by moving the feet in a coordinated fashion .
nordic walking is a physical activity and a sport .
hiking is an outdoor activity which consists of walking in natural environments ,  often in mountainous or other scenic terrain .
power walking or speed walking is the act of walking with a speed at the upper end of the natural range for walking gait ,  typically 7 to 9 km / h  ( 4 .5 to 5 .5 mph )  .
running at a low rate of speed .
an activity in which the body is propelled by moving the legs rapidly .
a non - impact form of running performed in a swimming pool .
start position: stand upright with feet shoulder width apart .
start position: stand upright with feet shoulder width apart .
a lunge can refer to any position of the human body where one leg is positioned forward with knee bent and foot flat on the ground while the other leg is positioned behind .
start position: place the affected leg on the step .
the act of propelling the body through water by movement of the arms and / or legs .
use of specific activities ,  postures ,  and movements to maintain ,  enhance ,  or restore balance .
exercises in which muscles are repeatedly and rapidly stretched ,  followed by shortening ,  concentric muscle contraction  ( e .g .
a light springy jump or leap ,  especially on one foot .
moving up off the ground by bending and extending the legs ,  such as jumping on one foot ,  hopping ,  skipping and jumping or diving into water .
a cardiopulmonary exercise in which one jumps over a swinging rope .
bouncing on a trampoline .
actions performed to provide the active or passive exercises to maintain joint function .
an exercise that incorporates muscular contractions to improve muscular strength .
a type of strength - building exercise program that requires the body muscle to exert a force against some form of resistance ,  such as weight ,  stretch bands ,  water ,  or immovable objects .
an exercise designed to improve flexibility or range of motion .
facilitation of systematic slow - stretch - hold muscle exercises to induce relaxation ,  to prepare muscles / joints for more vigorous exercise ,  or to increase or maintain body flexibility .
physical activity that increases the heart rate and the body's use of oxygen .
cycling is the use of bicycles for transport ,  recreation ,  or for sport .
an exercise performed on a rowing machine .
an exercise performed on a stepper .
an exercise performed on an elliptical motion exercise .
mobility aids help you walk or move from place to place if you are disabled or have an injury .
an orthopedic device used to support a moveable body part .
a long thin piece of cloth or paper as used for binding or fastening .
a device applied to a human limb to control or enhance movement or to prevent bone movement or deformity ,  for example ,  a splint or an arch support .
a device for exercising the body .
exerciser designed to facilitate the physical exertion of body muscles by the voluntary contraction and relaxation of large muscle groups  ( i .e . ,  active exercisers )  ,  which are intended primarily for making users breathe more deeply and their hearts work harder ;  activities in aerobic exercises can be usually maintained continuously and are rhythmic in nature .
aerobic exercisers designed to simulate elliptical  ( in an oval plane )  motions ,  a combination of stair - stepping ,  running ,  cross - country skiing ,  and walking .
aerobic cycle exercisers designed to simulate the motions of riding a bicycle ;  the bicycles remain stationary while the wheels move .
a bicycle is a human - powered ,  pedal - driven ,  single - track vehicle ,  having two wheels attached to a frame ,  one behind the other .
aerobic exercisers designed to simulate the motions of rowing  ( i .e . ,  propelling a boat forward using oars )  .
climbing aerobic exercisers designed to simulate the motion of climbing stairs using movable stairs or steppers .
aerobic exercisers designed to allow the user to exercise by walking and / or running on a moving belt .
exercisers designed for the physical exertion of body muscles by voluntary contraction and relaxation of the muscles ,  which are intended primarily to improve the user's ability to maintain proper posture and stability .
a small inflatable cushion ,  strong enough to sit or stand on ,  used to create instability .
a pad made of unstable material used to create instability while exercising .
a multifunctional balance and fitness tool .
board balance exerciser that consists of a round ,  flat ,  wooden or plastic board with a plastic ,  semispherical fulcrum attached underneath ;  they can usually be moved in multiple angular degrees ,  and tile angles are also adjustable .
board balance exerciser that consists of a flat ,  square or rectangular ,  wooden board and a wooden or plastic fulcrum attached underneath .
balance exerciser that consists of a synthetic or rubber ball approximately 65 cm in diamter .
exercisers designed primarily to facilitate the physical exertion of body muscles by voluntary contraction and relaxation of large muscle groups  ( i .e . ,  active exercisers )  that are intended primarily to provide resistance to muscular contraction for development of muscular strength and endurance .
strength exercisers designed to provide elastic resistance to muscular contraction for developing muscular strength and endurance .
muscle strength exercisers designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction using unconstrained weighted plates ;  the resistance is provided by the force of gravity acting on the free weights .
free weight exercisers designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction using two weight plates connected by a short bar  ( i .e . ,  dumbbells and weight )  ;  the resistance is provided by the force of gravity acting on the dumbbells .
the kettlebell is a cast - iron weight  ( resembling a cannonball with a handle )  used to perform ballistic exercises that combine cardiovascular ,  strength and flexibility training .
free weight exercisers designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction .
muscle strength exercisers designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction using a mechanism based on a system of pulleys and cables or levers ;  resistance may be provided by the force of gravity exerted on constrained weight stacks ,  by a hydraulic mechanism in which resistance changes in proportion to the force exerted on it ,  or by any other appropriate means .
muscle strength exercisers designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction when the legs are extended against the resistance using a mechanism based on a system of pulleys and cables or levers .
muscle strength exercisers designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction when the knees are flexed against resistance using equipment based on a system of pulleys and cables or levers .
lower - limb muscle strength exercisers based on a system of levers that are designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction when the user performs hip abduction .
lower - limb muscle strength exercisers based on a system of levers that are designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction when the user performs hip adduction .
muscle strength exercisers designed to provide resistance to muscular contraction when the feet press against resistance using a mechanism based on a system of levers .
an exerciser that is not a machine .
a medicine ball is a weighted ball roughly the diameter of the shoulders .
aerobic exercisers that may consist simply of a rope or cord that users swing over themselves and jump or skip over each time it reaches the feet and the two handles that users hold .
a trampoline is a device consisting of a piece of taut ,  strong fabric stretched over a steel frame using many coiled springs .
a game in which a round inflated ball is advanced by kicking or propelling with any part of the body except the hands or arms .
a support consisting of a place to rest the foot while ascending or descending a stairway .
a short narrow board having a set of four wheels mounted under it .
a common hiking accessory used to assist walkers with their rhythm and provide stability on rough terrain .
the sensation of discomfort ,  distress ,  or agony ,  resulting from the stimulation of specialized nerve endings .
enlargement ;  expansion in size ;  sign of inflammation .
the sensation of a joint  ( e .g .
lack of stability of a joint or joint prosthesis .
a sensation of discomfort and tightness while moving a joint .
care alleviating symptoms without curing the underlying disease  ( stedman ,  25th ed )  .
rice is a first - aid treatment method for soft tissue injuries which is an acronym for rest ,  ice ,  compression and elevation .
deliberate regulation of one's weight through diet ,  exercise ,  or other means .
pathological structure ,  disposition ,  or process .
a disposition  ( i )  to undergo pathological processes that  ( ii )  exists in an organism because of one or more disorders in that organism .
a part of an organism that has undergone a change in structural integrity and has a higher chance of dysfunction or causing dysfunction in another structure .
dislocations are joint injuries that force the ends of your bones out of position .
breaks or rupture in bones or cartilages .
fractures in which there is an external wound communicating with the break of the bone .
a fracture in which the break in bone is not accompanied by an external wound .
forcible tearing or disruption of tissue .
a bucket - handle tear of a meniscus is a longitudinal tear with an attached fragment displaced away from the meniscus .
a type of radial tear which begins at the inner edge ,  but then curves into a longitudinal orientation as the tear extends toward the meniscal periphery .
a tear with a flap displaced to the vertical or horizontal direction .
a tear that reaches the surface of an organ such as meniscus .
a tear that occurs within the substance of an organ and does not reach its surface .
a short tear that extends from the inner edge of the meniscus towards the outer part of the meniscus .
a tear in the meniscus with a vertical direction .
a tear that occurs in the periphery of an organ .
a tear in the meniscus with a longitudinal direction .
a tear in the meniscus with a horizontal direction .
a tear that occurs due to wear and tear  ( degeneration )  of the meniscal cartilage .
a tear with a torn fragment still in place .
a tear with a displaced fragment of an organ .
a tear that does not completely disrupt the tissue .
a tear that splits the tissue into two pieces .
a compression injury of the bone ,  which is usually associated with a bone bruise .
an incomplete dislocation of a joint .
a thrusting or forcing out of a normal position .
a sprain is a stretched or torn ligament .
a sprain is a stretched or torn ligament .
a strain is a stretched or torn muscle or tendon .
an inflammatory process affecting a joint .
bony outgrowth usually found around joints and often seen in conditions such as arthritis .
a noninflammatory degenerative joint disease occurring chiefly in older persons ,  characterised by degeneration of the articular cartilage ,  hypertrophy of bone at the margins and changes in the synovial membrane .
chronic systemic disease ,  primarily of the joints ,  marked by inflammatory changes in the synovial membranes and articular structures ,  widespread fibrinoid degeneration of the collagen fibers in mesenchymal tissues ,  and by atrophy and rarefaction of bony structures ;  etiology is unknown ,  but autoimmune mechanisms have been implicated .
a benign swelling found behind the knee joint .
a degeneration of the articular cartilage of the patella ,  caused by a decrease in sulfated mucopolysaccharides in the ground substance .
a discoid meniscus is an abnormally shaped meniscus in the knee .it is shaped like a half moon or complete circle ,  rather than a crescent moon .
inflammation or irritation of a bursa ,  the fibrous sac that acts as a cushion between moving structures of bones ,  muscles ,  tendons or skin .
inflammation of a synovial membrane .
a type of osteochondritis in which articular cartilage and associated bone becomes partially or totally detached to form joint loose bodies .
death of bone tissue due to traumatic or nontraumatic causes .
clinical syndrome describing overuse tendon injuries characterized by a combination of pain ,  diffuse or localized swelling ,  and impaired performance .
inflammation of tendons .it is characterized by the degeneration of tendons accompanied by an inflammatory repair response ,  fibroblastic proliferation ,  and formation of granulation tissue .
a disorder of tendons characterized by collagen degeneration ,  other changes to tenocytes and the extracellular matrix ,  and a lack of inflammatory cells .
a syndrome characterized by retropatellar or peripatellar pain resulting from physical and biochemical changes in the patellofemoral joint .
an overuse injury causing lateral knee pain that results from repetitive friction of the iliotibial band over the lateral femoral epicondyle .
joint impingement is a painful syndrome caused by the friction of joint tissues ,  which is both the cause and the effect of altered joint biomechanics .
a non specific term used to cover a group of disorders involving disruption of the normal functioning of the knee joint .
a diagnostic or treatment procedure performed by manual and / or instrumental means ,  often involving an incision and the removal or replacement of a diseased organ or tissue ;  of or relating to or involving or used in surgery or requiring or amenable to treatment by surgery .
procedures used to reconstruct ,  restore ,  or improve defective ,  damaged ,  or missing structures .
endoscopic examination ,  therapy and surgery of the joint .
restoring ,  to the extent possible ,  the natural anatomical structure .
surgical cutting or removal of bone .
a biomedical treatment that repairs damages in articular cartilage .
surgical reconstruction or replacement of all or part of a malformed ,  diseased ,  degenerated ,  or otherwise damaged joint .
partial or total replacement of a joint .
the use of metallic devices inserted into or through bone to hold a fracture in a set position and alignment while it heals .
a wooden or metal staff that fits under the armpit and reaches to the ground ,  used as an aid while walking .
a cane is a device intended for medical purposes that is used to provide minimal weight support while walking .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting movement as a result of its own action .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting movement as a result of an externally applied force .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having physical steadiness .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
the distance and direction to which a bone joint can be extended .
condition of moderate contraction produced by stretching a muscle .
force exerted by a muscle ,  as a response parameter  ( e .g .
the ability of a muscle to sustain repeated contractions against a resistance for an extended period of time .
the time span between the beginning of physical activity by an individual and the termination because of exhaustion .
the ability to carry out daily tasks and perform physical activities in a highly functional state ,  often as a result of physical conditioning .
degree of intensity or force in regard to a physical activity .
the ability to change the body's position efficiently .
the resistance offered by various musculoskeletal tissues that surround a skeletal joint .
functions related to the force generated by the contraction of all muscles and muscle groups of the body .
the ability of a msucle to generate as much force as fast as possible .
pathologic processes that affect patients after a surgical procedure .
a localized collection of blood ,  usually clotted ,  in an organ ,  space ,  or tissue ,  due to a break in the wall of a blood vessel .
inflammation of a vein ,  often a vein in the leg .
a rare neurologic syndrome characterized by burning pain ,  tenderness ,  swelling ,  and changes in the skin color and temperature of a body part or extremity .
invasion and growth of microorganisms in body tissues .
a blood clot  ( thrombus )  in a deep vein in the thigh or leg .
health care services provided to patients on an ambulatory basis ,  rather than by admission to a hospital or other health care facility .
improvements in patient motivation could be brought about by the therapist adopting specific qualities and modes of behaviour towards patients .
collaborating with patient to identify and prioritize care goals ,  then developing a plan for achieving those goals .
systematic progression of patient's activity level starting at a baseline level based on the proportion of tolerance followed by incremental increase .
provide patient with clear explanation of the findings .
a professional opinion about what could or should be done about a medical problem .
providing feedback to patient on the outcome of the assessment and treatment progress .
informing or instructing patients on the specifics of their disorder and / or its treatment .
sending a patient from one practitioner to another for health care services .
a finding of development of a new problem at the site of an existing wound .
performance of complex motor acts .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two sides ;  two - sided .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's involvement of only one part or side .
a vocation ,  academic discipline ,  or field of study related to biomedicine .
conceptually broad array term referring both to the science of anatomy and the actual structure or morphology of an organism .
the study of the mechanics of a living body ,  especially of the forces exerted by muscles and gravity on the skeletal structure .
the cause or origin of disease .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's orientation in space .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
refers to muscle ,  fat ,  fibrous tissue ,  blood vessels ,  or other supporting tissue of the body .
a passive oscillatory movement applied to a joint within the control of the patient .
a movement that cannot perform actively by a person ,  but can be carried out on them by an external force .
self stretching techniques that specifically use joint traction or glides that direct the stretch force to the joint capsule .
therapeutic practices which are not currently considered an integral part of conventional allopathic medical practice .
the practice of piercing specific points on the body with very thin sterile needles in order to relieve pain or induce regional anesthesia .
the application of non - invasive finger pressure along energy points throughout the body in order to relieve pain and induce a feeling of well - being .
systematic activities that promote walking with or without assistive devices .
start position: stand with equal body weight on both legs .
an exercise designed to improve physical agility .
start jogging forward ,  plant the foot of the injured leg and push off at a 45 or 90 degree angle .
start position: space two floor markers on the ground .
start position: space floor markers on the ground and stand at one end .
start position: space floor markers on the ground and stand at one end .
start jogging and then alternate between accelerating and decelerating whilst jogging .
start jogging and then accelerate to a running pace then slow down to jog again .
start jogging and then decelerate to a slow jog .
run forward and then stop keeping balance on the injured leg .
an exercise where a person performs a desired movement to the best of their ability with external assistance to complete a full range of motion and reduce resistance to the limb .
movement of a body part as a result of an externally applied force or a voluntary effort to move another part of the body .
therapeutic physical activities such as active / passive range of motion ,  isometrics ,  stretching ,  and weight lifting .
engaging in competitive and informal or formally organized games or athletic events ,  performed alone or in a group ,  such as bowling ,  gymnastics or soccer .
the term air sports covers a range of aerial activities such as: gliding ,  parachuting ,  paragliding ,  etc .
a competitive team sport played on a rectangular court having a raised basket at each end .
a team sport played with a bat and ball by 2 teams of 9 players .
cricket is a bat - and - ball game played between two teams of 11 players on a field ,  at the centre of which is a rectangular 22 - yard long pitch .
bowling refers to a series of sports or leisure activities in which a player rolls or throws a bowling ball .
moving the whole body upwards or downwards ,  over surfaces or objects ,  such as climbing steps ,  rocks ,  ladders or stairs ,  curbs or other objects .
activities in which participants learn self - defense mainly through the use of hand - to - hand combat .
rhythmic and patterned body movements which are usually performed to music .
rugby football is a style of football seen most prominently in two current sports ,  rugby league and rugby union .
a game whose object is to sink a ball into each of 9 or 18 successive holes on a golf course using as few strokes as possible .
systematic physical exercise .this includes calisthenics ,  a system of light gymnastics for promoting strength and grace of carriage .
handball is a team sport in which two teams of seven players each  ( six outfield players and a goalkeeper on each team )  pass a ball to throw it into the goal of the other team .
a team sport in which two teams hit an inflated ball back and forth over a high net using their hands .
any sport where players use racquets to hit a ball or other object .
badminton is a racquet sport played by either two opposing players  ( singles )  or two opposing pairs  ( doubles )  ,  who take positions on opposite halves of a rectangular court that is divided by a net .
squash is a high - speed racquet sport played by two players  ( or in doubles 4 players on court at a time )  in a four - walled court with a small ,  hollow rubber ball .
a game played by two or four players with rackets and an elastic ball on a level court divided by a low net .
olympic weightlifting ,  also called weightlifting ,  is an athletic discipline in the modern olympic programme in which participants attempt a maximum - weight single lift of a barbell loaded with weight plates .
sports performed on a track ,  field ,  or arena and including running events and other competitions ,  such as the pole vault ,  shot put ,  etc .
sprints are short running events in track and field athletics .
middle distance running events are track races longer than sprints ,  up to 3000 metres .
standard long distance running events are races 5000 metres or 10000 metres long .
the marathon is a long - distance running event with an official distance of 42 .195 kilometres .
the long jump is a track and field event in which athletes combine speed ,  strength ,  and agility in an attempt to leap as far as possible from a take off point .
the triple jump ,  sometimes referred to as the hop ,  step and jump or the hop ,  skip and jump ,  is a track and field sport ,  similar to the long jump ,  but involving a 'hop ,  bound and jump': the competitor runs down the track and performs a hop ,  a bound and then a jump into the sand pit .
the high jump is a track and field athletics event in which competitors must jump over a horizontal bar placed at measured heights without the aid of certain devices .
pole vaulting is a track and field event in which a person uses a long ,  flexible pole  ( which today is usually made either of fiberglass or carbon fiber )  as an aid to leap over a bar .
hurdling is a type of track and field race .
the steeplechase is an obstacle race in athletics .
the shot put is a track and field event involving throwing in a pushing motion a heavy spherical object as far as possible .
the discus throw is an event in track and field athletics competition ,  in which an athlete throws a heavy disc in an attempt to mark a farther distance than his or her competitors .
the javelin throw is a track and field event involving throwing a spear approximately 2 .5m in length .
the hammer throw is an athletic throwing event where the goal is to throw a heavy metal spherical object attached to a wire and handle .
using ice skates ,  roller skates ,  or skateboards in racing or other competition or for recreation .
a snow sport which uses skis to glide over the snow .
a motion of the whole body or a portion of the body used in sport - like activities .
a movement in which a player with the ball steps once or more in any direction with the same foot while the other foot  ( pivot foot )  is kept at its point of contact with the floor .
the state of being twisted into a spiral ;  torsional stress or strain .
to stretch one's body or muscles to the point of strain or injury .
to bend to excess .
the sidestep cut is a maneuver in which the swing limb is placed laterally ,  away from the stance limb ,  toward the new plane of progression .
the crossover cut is a maneuver in which the swing limb crosses over the stance limb ,  toward the new plane of progression .
damage inflicted on any part of the body due to overexertion of some part of the musculoskeletal system ,  often resulting from work - related physical activities .
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
loss ,  damage ,  or depreciation resulting from ordinary use and exposure .
an unforeseen and unplanned event or circumstance frequently causing loss or injury .
injuries caused by impact with a blunt object where there is no penetration of the skin .
falls due to slipping or tripping which result in injury .
the act or an instance of slipping or sliding .
a maneuver causing someone to stumble or fall .
unforeseen occurrences ,  especially injuries in the course of work - related activities .
sports activity level specified on the cincinnati sports activity scale as a standard format for analysis of sports participation and knee function .
participates 4 to 7 days / week
participates 1 to 3 days / week
participates 1 to 3 times / month
no sports
participates 4 to 7 days / week: jumping ,  hard pivoting ,  cutting  ( basketball ,  volleyball ,  football ,  soccer ,  gymnastics ) 
participates 4 to 7 days / week: running ,  twisting ,  turning  ( racquet sports ,  baseball ,  hockey ,  skiing ,  wrestling ) 
participates 4 to 7 days / week: no running ,  twisting ,  jumping  ( cycling ,  swimming ) 
participates 1 to 3 days / week: jumping ,  hard pivoting ,  cutting  ( basketball ,  volleyball ,  football ,  soccer ,  gymnastics ) 
participates 1 to 3 days / week: running ,  twisting ,  turning  ( racquet sports ,  baseball ,  hockey ,  skiing ,  wrestling ) 
participates 1 to 3 days / week: no running ,  twisting ,  jumping  ( cycling ,  swimming ) 
participates 1 to 3 times / month: jumping ,  hard pivoting ,  cutting  ( basketball ,  volleyball ,  football ,  soccer ,  gymnastics ) 
participates 1 to 3 times / month: running ,  twisting ,  turning  ( racquet sports ,  baseball ,  hockey ,  skiing ,  wrestling ) 
participates 1 to 3 times / month: no running ,  twisting ,  jumping  ( cycling ,  swimming ) 
no sports: activities of daily living with no problems
no sports: activities of daily living with moderate problems
no sports: activities of daily living with severe problems
an accident that occured while training or playing sport .
introduction of a substance or device to the surface of the body .
bracing an extremity to control ,  guide ,  limit and / or immobilize a joint .
taping an extremity to stabilize and / or reduce inflammation and / or support a fracture ,  injury and / or dislocation .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand with the affected leg forward .
start position: stand with the affected leg on a step .
start position: stand upright with feet shoulder width apart .
start position: stand on uneven or unstable surface  ( e .g .
start position: balance on the affected leg .
start position: balance on the affected leg .
start position: stand on the affected leg .
start position: stand on the affected leg .
start position: stand on the affected leg .
start position: stand on the affected leg .
start position: stand on the affected leg in front of the step .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand upright in front of the step .
start position: stand upright .
sport - specific exercise is an exercise consisting of movements that are specific to a particular sport .
a body conditioning routine that may help build flexibility ,  muscle strength ,  and endurance in the legs ,  abdominals ,  arms ,  hips ,  and back .
exercises designed to tone ,  strengthen and align the body through postures performed to make the spine supple and healthy and to promote blood flow to all the organs ,  glands ,  and tissues .
start position: stand upright with feet shoulder width apart .
start position: stand on the affected leg .
start position: stand upright with the back supported against a wall and feet shoulder width apart .
a procedure ,  method ,  or technique used to determine the nature or identity of a disease or disorder .
patient supine on the examination table .
patient supine on the examination table .
a test for a meniscal injury .
the patient is prone with the knee flexed at 90 degrees .
a test for a meniscal injury .
patient supine with toes pointing upwards .
a test for assessing patellar laxity .
a test for a meniscal injury .
a test for a meniscal injury .
a test for a meniscal injury .
the subject is supine ,  hip flexed to 45 degrees and knee flexed to 90 degrees .
subject is supine with the test hip flexed to 45 degrees ,  knee flexed to 90 degrees ,  and foot in a neutral position .
patient lies supine with the hip flexed to 45 degrees and the knee flexed to 90 degrees .
subject is supine with knee flexed to 90 degrees in the drawer - test position .
patient lies supine .knee held between full extension and 15 degrees of flexion .
a test for posterior instability .
a test for knee posterolateral instability ,  which is a modification of the standard posterolateral rotatory instability test ,  is described .
a test for a synovial plica syndrome .
the patient lies supine on the examination table .
the patient is supine on the table with the knee held at 30 degrees of flexion .
a test for anteromedial rotary instability and anterolateral rotary instability of the knee .
a test for anterolateral rotary instability of knee .
with the patient lying flat ,  the knee is first fully flexed ;  the foot is held by grasping the heel .
the test is performed with the patient supine and the foot cupped in the examiner's hand .
a test for chondromalacia patellae .
a test for a meniscal injury or capsular irritation .
a test for patellar dislocation .
a test used to detect the presence of osteochondritis dissecans of the knee .
the thessaly test is a dynamic reproduction of joint loading in the knee .
a provocative test of the iliotibial band .
the patient is supine .the knee is held flexed at 90 degrees and forced to external rotation ,  then internal rotation .
in steinmann's second test joint line tenderness migrates posteriorly with knee flexion and anteriorly with knee extension ,  following the movements of the meniscus .
a two - phase test for patellofemoral pain syndrome .
leg picked up at the ankle ;  the knee is flexed by placing the heel of the hand behind the fibula .
a test for posterolateral rotary instability .
a term or system of terms denoting an arrangement by class or category .
the osics - 10 is an injury classification system that supports classification of diagnoses for summary studies .
injuries to the knee or the knee joint .
any method that uses a visual display of structural or functional patterns of organs or tissues for diagnostic evaluation .
imaging that uses radiofrequency waves and a strong magnetic field rather than x - rays to provide amazingly clear and detailed pictures of internal organs and tissues .
a radiographic procedure using the emission of x - rays to form an image of the structure penetrated by the radiation .
a technique in which high - frequency sound waves are bounced off internal organs and the echo pattern is converted into a 2 dimensional picture of the structures beneath the transducer .
a method of examining body organs by scanning them with x rays and using a computer to construct a series of cross - sectional scans along a single axis .
a test to determine a patient's ability to voluntarily contract a specific muscle or a group of muscles .
the fitt  ( frequency - intensity - time - type )  activity level is determined by how often ,  how hard ,  how long ,  and what kinds of activity one performs to support health and fitness .
no moderate or vigorous activity of 20 minutes duration .
1 - 4 occasions of a mix of moderate and vigorous activity in 4 weeks .
5 - 11 occasions of a mix of moderate and vigorous activity in 4 weeks .
12 or more occasions of a moderate activity in 4 weeks .
12 or more occasions of a mix of moderate and vigorous activity in 4 weeks .
12 or more occasions of vigorous activity in 4 weeks .
a scale for grading muscle power in stages from 0 to 5 .
no active muscle contraction .
visible muscle contraction only .
movement with gravity eliminated .
movement against gravity .
muscle movement against resistance incomplete .
movement against resistance .
a skeletal muscle whose contraction supports joint movement .
a test for joint effusion in the knee area .
a test for joint effusion in the knee area .
a test for a fat pad impingement .
a test for patellofemoral pain syndrome .
a quality that inheres in a muscle .
an observable or measurable property or state of an organism of clinical interest .
measurement of the structure or forms of the entire body or parts of the body of an organism .
a measurement to assess the morphological or physiological state of the cardiovascular system or portion of the cardiovascular system .
measurement of the pressure ,  or force per area ,  exerted by circulating blood against the walls of the blood vessels .
the minimum arterial pressure within the cardiac cycle ,  usually at the point at which the heart is in a state of relaxation and expansion .
the maximum arterial pressure within the cardiac cycle ,  i .e .
the number of heartbeats per unit of time ,  usually expressed as beats per minute .
the count of the rhythmic contractions and expansions of an artery due to the surge of blood from the beat of the heart .
measurement of the bodily system that consists of the muscles ,  bones ,  joints ,  and related structures ,  such as the tendons and connective tissue and which supports and protects the body ,  functions in the movement of body parts and organs ,  produces blood cells ,  and stores minerals .
measurement of one or more of the articulations between bones which may be immovable ,  slightly movable or freely movable .
any measurement ,  morphological or physiological of a muscle or a group of muscles .
a measurement to assess the morphological or physiological state of the respiratory system or portion of the respiratory system .
fraction of forced vital capacity that is exhaled in a specific number of seconds .
the comparison of forced expiratory volume to forced vital capacity expressed as ratio or percentage .
the volume of air that can be forcibly expelled from a maximally inflated lung .
the rate of elimination of carbon dioxide from the lungs .
maximum capacity of an individual's body to transport and utilize oxygen ,  usually measured during exercise as volume of oxygen per unit of time .
total volume to which lungs can be expanded with greatest inspiratory effort .
the amount of gas remaining in the lung at the end of a maximal exhalation .
maximal rate of air flow through the pulmonary tree during forced expiration .
the q angle is the angle of incidence of the quadriceps muscle relative to the patella .
an abnormal structure ,  or one that is abnormal in size or location .
ligamentous laxity is a term given to describe 'loose ligaments' .
an abnormality of the knee joint or surrounding structures .
a developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood .
abnormality of the patella  ( knee cap )  .
a foot where the 'plantar arch'  ( fma:43942 )  is in contact with the ground or floor when the individual is standing ;  or ,  in a patient lying supine ,  a foot where the arch is in contact with the surface of a flat board pressed against the sole of the foot by the examiner with a pressure similar to that expected from weight bearing ;  or ,  the height of the arch is reduced .
tibial torsion is inward twisting  ( 'medial roation' )   ( pato:0002155 )  of the 'tibia'  ( fma:24476 )  .
femoral retroversion is an excessive external hip rotation .
femoral anteversion is an excessive internal hip rotation .
a positional abnormality marked by outward bowing of the legs in which the knees stay wide apart when a person stands with the feet and ankles together .
the legs angle inward ,  such that the knees are close together and the ankles far apart .
the backward curvature of the knee ;  hyperextension of the knee .
a bent  ( flexed )  knee joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
a muscle strength exercise that uses elastic band as resistance .
a muscle strength exercise that uses weight as resistance .
a muscle strength exercise that uses free weight as resistance .
an exercise performed on a weight machine .
an exercise performed on a knee extension resistance machine .
an exercise performed on a knee flexion resistance machine .
an exercise performed on a hip abduction resistance machine .
an exercise performed on a hip adduction resistance machine .
an exercise performed on a leg press machine .
an observation of the body or a body part using one of the five human senses  ( e .g .
tests requiring nonverbal responses ,  for example ,  the manipulation of objects or the performance of motor skills .
the result of a laboratory ,  radiologic ,  or other clinical test performed to determine the presence ,  absence ,  or degree of a condition .
an observation confirming something ,  such as the presence of a disease ,  condition ,  or microorganism .
a finding of normality following an examination or investigation looking for the presence of a microorganism ,  disease ,  or condition .
used for taxonomic or other systematic or hierarchical classification systems .
an instrument designed to measure outcomes related to one's medical condition .
international knee documentation committee  ( ikdc )  subjective knee evaluation form is a knee - specific measure of symptoms ,  function ,  and sports activity .
a self - administered questionnaire that assesses five outcomes: pain ,  symptoms ,  activities of daily living ,  sport and recreation function ,  and knee - related quality of life .
a 7 - item measure of physical function derived from the function ,  daily living and function ,  sports and recreational activity subscales of the koos .
a patient - reported instrument for the measurement of functional limitations commonly experienced by individuals with various knee conditions .
lysholm knee scoring scale is a scoring scale for knee ligament surgery follow - up emphasizing evaluation of symptoms of instability ,  which is defined as 'giving way' during activity .
oxford knee score is a questionnaire for patients having a total knee replacement that reflects their assessment of knee - related health status and benefits of treatment .
a self administered rating scale to assess an individual's activity level .
tegner activity scale  ( tas )  is an activity grading scale ,  where work and sport activities are graded numerically .
knee injury and osteoarthritis outcome score physical function short form  ( koos - ps )  is questionnaire designed to obtain patients' opinions about the difficulties experienced with physical activities due to knee problems .
a questionnaire that assesses how knee pain has affected one's ability to manage in everyday life .
a rating system for patients undergoing knee arthroplasty that rates only the knee joint itself and a functional score that rates the patient's ability to walk and climb stairs .
the quality of being able to perform ;  a quality that permits or facilitates achievement or accomplishment .
the maintenance of a stable ,  upright body position .
the ability to perform complex motor acts .
the ability to perform gross movements that involve large muscle groups and whole body movement .
the ability to coordinate of small muscle movements which occur in body parts such as the fingers ,  usually in coordination with the eyes .
a measure of how far a joint can move when it is being manipulated by someone other than the patient .
a measure of how far a patient can move a body part against gravity .
generalized swelling in the overall knee area .
swelling localized to a specific area of the knee .
discomfort elicited through touch or pressure .
a symptom occuring in the knee .
sensation felt in the knee .
knee feels like it may slip out of place .
knee locking is where a knee gets stuck in one position .
clinical finding about a knee .
giving way is where the knee suddenly 'gives out' ,  causing one to stumble or fall .
extension lag a lack of normal active extension of a joint for which there is normal passive extension .
a test for patella ligament or quadriceps tendon rupture .
a phenotypic abnormality .
an abnormality of movement .
any disruption of the ability to walk .
a limp is a type of asymmetric abnormality of the gait .
a limp adopted so as to avoid pain on weight - bearing structures ,  characterized by a very short stance phase .
an abnormal gait pattern in which persons stand and walk with their feet spaced widely apart .
a gait in which the foot is moving forward at the time of initial contact ,  with the foot either flat or at heel strike ,  or during midswing .
an exaggerated alteration of lateral trunk movements ,  with an exaggerated elevation of the hip ,  suggesting the gait of a duck .
clinical finding about a joint .
a method of feeling with the hands during a physical examination .
watching something and taking note of what happens .
a physiotherapist will initially conduct a subjective examination  ( interview )  of a patient's medical history ,  life style ,  work requirements ,  etc .
the use of self - assessment questionnaires to examine the social ,  emotional or physical aspects of a health condition .
organ with cavitated organ parts ,  which primarily consists of compact  ( cortical )  and cancellous bone ,  which surround bone marrow cavities ;  together with other bones ,  cartilages and joints ,  it constitutes the skeletal system .
inner and larger bone of the leg below the knee ;  it articulates with the femur and head of the fibula above and the talus below .
the longest and largest bone of the skeleton ,  it is situated between the hip and the knee .
the bone of the lower leg lateral to and smaller than the tibia .
the bone of the foot that connects with the tibia and fibula to form the ankle joint .
a small flat triangular bone in front of the knee that articulates with the femur and protects the knee joint .
synovial tissue is the soft tissue found between the joint capsule and the joint cavity of synovial joints .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ,  with or without the admixture of cells and biological macromolecules ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures .
the clear ,  viscous fluid secreted by the synovial membrane .
a sac containing synovial fluid at sites of friction ,  as between a tendon and a bone .
a layer of connective tissue that lines the cavities of joints ,  tendon sheaths ,  and bursae  ( fluid - filled sacs between tendons and bones )  .
a rounded bony projection at the end of the bone .
a bone prominence to which ligaments and tendons of the joints are attached .
origin: termination of femoral nerve ,  descending first with femoral vessels and then on medial side of leg and foot .
a nerve that arises from the second ,  third ,  and fourth lumbar nerves and enters the thigh through the obturator canal .
a thickened longitudinal band of fascia lata extending from the tensor muscle downward to the lateral condyle of the tibia .
a nodule or small eminence ,  especially one on a bone for attachment of a tendon .
the medial and lateral portions of the tendon of the quadriceps pass down on either side of the patella ,  to be inserted into the upper extremity of the tibia on either side of the tuberosity ;  these portions merge into the capsule ,  forming the medial and lateral patellar retinacula .
the round end of the long bones .
encapsulated adipose tissue .
a specialized form of connective tissue consisting primarily of adipocytes  ( fat cells )  ,  surrounded by a meshwork of collagen fibers .
anatomical structure ,  which has as its direct parts instances of anatomical sets of organs and cardinal organ parts spatially associated with either the skull ,  vertebral column ,  or the skeleton of a limb ;  in their aggregate are surrounded by a part of the skin examples: head ,  body proper ,  right upper limb .
striated muscles that are under voluntary control of the organism .
anatomical structure which has as its direct parts portions of two or more types of tissue or two or more types of cardinal organ part which constitute a maximally connected anatomical structure demarcated predominantly by a bona fide anatomical surface .
anatomical structure which has as its direct parts two or more types of tissue and is continuous with one or more anatomical structures likewise constituted by two or more portions of tissues distinct from those of their complement .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
nonparenchymatous organ that consists of organ parts composed of various types of connective tissue ;  it surrounds and interconnects various organs and body parts ,  and establishes the anatomical integrity of body parts and organ systems .
organ the unshared parts of which surround one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
organ the unshared parts of which do not surround macroscopic anatomical spaces ;  only its shared parts  ( subdivisions of hollow tree organs )  contain anatomical spaces .
serous sac ,  which has as parts a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
synovial capsule of joint ,  which is surrounded by the fibrous capsule of knee joint .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of cartilage tissue .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue aggregated into fasciculi by connective tissue .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of skeletal muscle tissue aggregated into macroscopic fasciculi by connective tissue ;  together with other muscles ,  it constitutes the muscular system .
fat pad that stretches from the posterior superior medial aspect of the tibia to the posterior lateral superior aspect of the tibia .
ligament organ that primarily consists of regular dense connective tissue aggregated into fasciculi ;  connects bone and cartilage organs .
synovial sac which lines the fibrous capsule of a synovial joint .
cardinal organ part which is a fiat subdivision of an organ .
organ region with one or more floating fiat boundaries .
a large oblong elevation at the proximal end of the tibia to which the ligament of the patella attaches .
tibialis is either of two muscles of the calf of the leg .
anatomical structure ,  which is a subdivision of a cardinal body part ;  it may exclude bones ;  is demarcated from other subdivisions of the same cardinal body part by anatomical surfaces or lines or topographical references ;  together with other contiguous subdivisions of the same cardinal body part ,  it constitutes a cardinal body part .
the region of the lower limb between the foot and the leg .
distal portion of the leg upon which one stands and walks .
the region of the lower limb between the leg and the thigh .
the inferior part of the lower extremity between the knee and the ankle .
a part of the lower limb ,  located between hip and knee .
a pair of ligaments which cross over one another ,  as for example the cranial and caudal cruciate ligaments which tie the femur to the tibia .
an extracapsular ligament of the knee .
either of two bands ,  anterior and posterior ,  that extend upward from the lateral meniscus ,  pass before and behind the posterior cruciate ligament ,  and reach the medial condyle of the femur .
a ligament located on either side of a hinge joint such as the knee or wrist that acts as a radius of movement for the joint .
anatomical structure ,  which has as its direct parts instances of one or more organ types which are interconnected with one another by zones of continuity .
the system of muscles ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  bones ,  joints and associated tissues that move the body and maintain its form .
bones and cartilages of the body ,  including the joints .
regular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which consists predominantly of collagen fiber bundles arranged in parallel arrays .
a membrane lining the external walls of the body cavities and reflected over the surfaces of protruding organs .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
regular connective tissue ,  which consists of osteocytes and related cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which is ossified .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
neural tree  ( organ )  which is directly continuous with the neuraxis .
a nerve originating in the lumbar spinal cord  ( usually l2 to l4 )  and traveling through the lumbar plexus to provide motor innervation to extensors of the thigh and sensory innervation to parts of the thigh ,  lower leg ,  and foot ,  and to the hip and knee joints .
tissue which consists of neurons and their processes and neuroglia .
deep fascia in the thigh and gluteal region .
a layer of fascia that closely invests a muscle or ligament .
a complex hinge joint between tibia and femur .
cardinal organ part which is bounded predominantly by bonafide boundaries .
a complete set of joints between bones .
organ system which consists of the heart ,  the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous system ,  the lymphatic and the portal venous system .
the entire nerve apparatus ,  composed of a central part ,  the brain and spinal cord ,  and a peripheral part ,  the cranial and spinal nerves ,  autonomic ganglia ,  and plexuses .
anatomical systems of structures outside the brain and spinal cord composed of neural tissue .
deep fascial system comprises an intricate series of connective sheets and bands that hold the muscles and other structures in place throughout the body ,  wrapping the muscles in gray ,  feltlike membranes .
in sports and particularly exercise testing ,  the borg scale measures perceived exertion .
the original scale introduced by gunnar borg rated exertion on a scale of 6 - 20 .
an updated combined category and ration scale by borg with the ratings between 0  ( nothing at all )  and 10  ( very very hard )  .
the medial patellofemoral ligament  ( mpfl )  is a band of retinacular tissue connecting the femoral medial epicondyle to the medial edge of the patella .
gerdy's tubercle is a lateral tubercle of the tibia ,  located where the iliotibial tract inserts .
the pointed lower end of the patella from which the ligamentum patella passes to insert on the tibial tuberosity .
the superior border of the patella to which the tendon of the rectus femoris attaches .
anatomical surface ,  which is the internal or external surface of an organ .
a small articular surface of the patella .
a bony eminence in the intercondylar region of the tibia .
the use of exercises and physical activities to help condition muscles and restore strength and movement .
a flat pyramidal muscle lying almost parallel to the posterior margin of the gluteus medius .
the most superficial of the three adductor muscles of the thigh and one of five medial femoral muscles .
the long ,  heavy triangular muscle of the medial aspect of the thigh .
a somewhat triangular muscle in the thigh and one of the five medial femoral muscles .
the largest nerve of the body .
origin: sciatic nerve in lower part of thigh .
a terminal division of the sciatic nerve ,  passing through the lateral portion of the popliteal space to opposite the head of the fibula where it divides into the superficial and the deep peroneal nerves .
a nerve that arises from the fourth and fifth lumbar nerves and the first sacral nerve and supplies the gluteus medius and minimus muscles and tensor muscle of the broad fascia .
a nerve that arises from the fifth lumbar nerve and the first and second sacral nerves and supplies the gluteus maximus muscle .
muscle organ which is a part of the trunk .
a muscle with origin from the sacrum ,  the sacroiliac ligament ,  the lumbar vertebrae ,  the thoracic vertebrae ,  and the last four cervical vertebrae ,  with insertion into the spinous processes of all the vertebrae up to and including the axis ,  with nerve supply from the dorsal branches of the spinal nerve ,  and whose action rotates the vertebral column .
the superficial longitudinal muscle mass on either side of the vertebral column .
one of a pair of transverse abdominal muscles that is the anterolateral muscle of the abdomen ,  lying immediately under the internal abdominal oblique .
a muscle with origin from the pubis ,  with insertion into the xiphoid process and the fifth to seventh costal cartilages ,  and whose action flexes the vertebral column and draws the chest downward .
one of a pair of anterolateral muscles of the abdomen ,  lying under the external oblique muscle in the lateral and ventral part of the abdominal wall .
one of a pair of muscles that are the largest and the most superficial of the five anterolateral muscles of the abdomen .
subdivision of body proper ,  which consists of a maximal set of diverse subclasses of organ and organ part spatially associated with the ribcage ,  thoracic and lumbar vertebral column ,  sacrum and coccyx ,  it is partially surrounded by skin of trunk .
start position: stand on the step .
start position: stand upright on the step .
start position: stand on the affected leg on the step .
start position: stand on the affected leg .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand upright with the affected leg slightly behind .
start position: stand and place your affected leg on a step .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand on the affected leg ,  sideways to the step .
start position: stand with the affected leg forward .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand on the affected leg with the unaffected leg extended behind ,  resting on a step .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand upright .
a set of exercises to develop the strength and coordination of core muscles  ( including abdominal ,  lower back and pelvic muscles )  in order to increase core stability .
start position: stand upright .
start position: balance on the affected leg .
a patella alta is an abnormally high lying patella .
a patella baja is an abnormally low lying patella .
an excessive shift of patella toward the outside  ( lateral )  aspect of the knee joint .
an excessive tilt of patella toward the outside  ( lateral )  aspect of the knee joint .
an excessive subluxation of patella toward the outside  ( lateral )  aspect of the knee joint .
an abnormal shape of the patella is ,  which may cause the patella to be unstable .
an abnormally small patella .
an abnormal shape of the trochlea ,  where the trochlea is flattened .
hypoplastic trochlea is a congenital abnormality where trochlea of the femur did not develop fully .
a measurement to related body weight to height in an organisms typically calculated as the weight of an individual divided by the height of that individual squared .
the vertical measurement of a body .
the heaviness or degree to which an entire organism's body is drawn to the earth by gravity .
self - regulated modification and / or maintenance of behavior by self - governing of behavioral consequences .
a hypothesis about the course of a disease .
the representation of a conclusion of a diagnostic process .
the medical science ,  and specialty practice ,  concerned with all aspects of disease ,  but with special reference to the essential nature ,  causes ,  and development of abnormal conditions ,  as well as the structural and functional changes that result from the disease processes .
a form of therapy that employs a coordinated and interdisciplinary approach for easing the suffering and improving the quality of life of those experiencing pain .
in medicine ,  a process to restore mental and / or physical abilities lost to injury or disease ,  in order to function in a normal or near - normal way .
therapy dealing with lifestyle management and includes: behavioral and dietary modifications ,  exercise ,  stress management ,  and addiction control .
the expected function of a member of a particular profession .
a doctor who specializes in the care of the foot and ankle .
a person trained in pharmacy that prepares and dispenses drugs prescribed by physicians and health practitioners .
an orthotist is a healthcare professional who specialises in the use of devices  ( orthoses )  to support weakened joints ,  correct deformities and reduce pain and strain when the affected joints are being used in everyday life .
orthopedic surgeons are healthcare professionals who use both surgical and nonsurgical means to treat musculoskeletal trauma ,  sports injuries ,  degenerative diseases ,  infections ,  tumors ,  and congenital disorders .
a professional trained and qualified to provide nutritional services at individual ,  institutional and community levels in term of assessing nutritional needs and coordinating them with medical ones ,  developing and implementing nutrition programs ,  evaluation and reporting their results ,  as well as to educate people on healthy eating ,  and diseases prevention and treatment by means of dietary modifications .
physicians whose practice is not restricted to a specific field of medicine .
an individual trained and certified to apply knowledge of the concepts ,  principles ,  and practices of physical therapy for the treatment or prevention of physical disability or disease .
a personal trainer is a fitness professional involved in exercise prescription and instruction .
a health professional trained to care for people who are ill or disabled .
administration using positive pressure and a needle or other equipment to drive a therapeutic agent into the body .
a substance used in the treatment or prevention of pathologic disorders .
a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland .
a group of drugs that decrease fever ,  swelling ,  pain ,  and redness .
a drug that reduces pain and fever  ( but not inflammation )  .
chemically modified sodium hyaluronate jelly used in reducing postsurgical tendon adhesions .
amino sugar derivative of glucose ,  substituted at the 2 position ,  occurring in glycosaminoglycans and a variety of complex polysaccharides such as blood group substances .
oil obtained from fresh livers of the cod family ,  gadidae .
a series of statements representing health - relevant qualities of a patient and of a patient's family .
treatment with any substance ,  other than food ,  that is used to prevent ,  diagnose ,  treat ,  or relieve symptoms of a disease or abnormal condition .
the body part defined by the hip joint and surrounding structures ,  including the region from the iliac crest to the thigh .
care over an extended period ,  usually for a chronic condition or disability ,  requiring periodic ,  intermittent ,  or continuous care .
a pharmaceutical preparation for topical application .
the giving of drugs ,  chemicals ,  or other substances by mouth .
eq - 5d is a standardised measure of health status developed by the euroqol group in order to provide a simple ,  generic measure of health for clinical and economic appraisal .
a document with a set of printed or written questions with a choice of answers ,  devised for the purposes of a survey or statistical study .
start position: kneel down on all fours .
start position: lie on back with knees bent and feet on the floor .
start position: lie down on the back with knees bent and feet on the floor .
start position: lie down on back with affected knee bent and foot on the floor ,  the other leg extended out and off the ground .
start position: lie down on the side with the affected side uppermost and knees bent to 90 degrees .
start position: lie down on the back with knees bent and feet on the floor .
start position: stand upright with feet apart .
start position: sit down with legs extended ,  the upper body slightly reclined and the ankle of the affected leg resting on a ball .
start position: sit upright with legs straight out in front .
start position: lie down or sit upright with legs straight out in front .
start position: sit upright in a chair with the foot of the affected leg on the skateboard .
start position: stand with the affected leg behind ,  knee straight ,  heel on the ground and foot pointing forward so that there is a comfortable stretch in the calf .
start position: lie on back with knees bent .
start position: lie on front .
start position: lie on back .
start position: stand upright .
start position: stand upright and balance on the affected leg with the knee bent slightly .
start position: stand upright and balance on the affected leg .
start position: sit down with legs extended and the affected knee slightly bent with support underneath .
start position: sit upright in a chair with the elastic resistance looped around both ankles .
start position: sit upright in a chair with the elastic resistance looped around the ankle of the injured leg .
start position: sit upright in a chair with the injured leg crossed in front of the other leg .
start position: lie down on front with the ankle of the affected leg resting on a ball .
start position: stand with the affected leg forward holding hand weights .
start position: lie on back with knees bent and feet on the floor .
start position: stand upright holding hand weights .
start position: lie down on front .
start position: lie down on front .
start position: lie down on front with the affected knee bent to a right angle .
start position: stand upright and balance on the unaffected leg .
start position: lie on front .
start position: lie on either side with knees bent and the upper body raised off the ground by resting on a flexed elbow and forearm .
start position: sit upright in a chair with feet on floor .
start position: stand in a step with the affected leg behind and equal body weight on both legs .
start position: stand on the affected leg with the unaffected leg extended behind ,  resting on a supporting surface .
start position: balance on the affected leg holding a ball .
start position: stand upright holding hand weights with feet shoulder width apart .
start position: sit down with legs extended and the upper body slightly reclined .
start position: stand upright with feet shoulder width apart holding hand weights .
start position: lie on the side with the unaffected knee bent below and the affected leg straight .
start position: sit down with legs extended and the upper body slightly reclined .
start position: stand with elastic resistance looped around the ankle of the affected leg and under the foot of the unaffected leg .
start position: stand with elastic resistance looped around the ankles .
start position: stand with elastic resistance looped around the ankles .
start position: stand with elastic resistance looped around the ankles .
start position: lie on the side of the affected leg and the unaffected leg bent on top .
a set of aerobic exercises designed to improve the cardiovascular system ,  which consists of stepping on and off a special box of adjustable height .
external application of water for therapeutic purposes .
a joint between the lateral condyle of the tibia and the head of the fibula .
actions performed to provide the active or passive exercises to maintain knee function .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
soft ,  pulpy tissue ;  found in the marrow cavities of all bones and in the larger haversian canal of lamellar bone ;  occurs in two forms ,  yellow and red marrow .
anatomical compartment which has as its parts an articular capsule surrounding the joint cavity  ( or joint compartment space )  and the content of that space which includes the synovial capsule .
organismal continuant entity which is enclosed by the bona fide boundary of an organism or is an attribute of its structural organization .
physical anatomical entity which is a three - dimensional space ,  surface ,  line or point associated with a material anatomical entity .
anatomical boundary entity which has one spatial dimension .
adipose tissue located under the dermis .
osgood - schlatter disease is a traction apophysitis of the anterior tibial tubercle described in active adolescents and characterized by gradual onset of pain and swelling of the anterior knee causing limping that usually disappears at the end of growth .
a fracture in which the line of break forms a right angle with the axis of the bone .
a fracture in which the fragments of bone are at angles to one another .
separation of a small fragment of bone cortex at the site of attachment of a ligament or tendon .
a bone break in which the center fragment contained by two cracks forms a triangle .
a fracture in which the bone is splintered or crushed .
a traumatic bone break in which two ends of a fractured bone are separated and out of their normal positions .
a bone break in which cracks in the bone may radiate in several directions but the bone fragments do not separate .
a fracture involving the epiphyseal plate of a long bone ,  which causes separation or fragmentation of the plate .
a fracture that does not involve a joint space .
a fracture that involves a joint space .
a fracture which does not entirely destroy the continuity of the bone .
a fracture that runs parallel to the long axis of a bone .
a fracture in which the line of break runs obliquely to the axis of the bone .
a fracture involving the articular cartilage and underlying bone .
a fracture below the articular cartilage .
a fracture involving the articular cartilage .
a fracture occurring as a result of disease of a bone or from some undiscoverable cause and not due to trauma .
a fracture of a long bone characterised by a spiral fracture line resulting from a torsional traumatic force .
a fracture in which there are numerous fissures radiating from the central point of impact or injury throughout surrounding bone tissue .
a fracture due to the strain caused by repetitive exercise .
a form of stress fractures that result when normal force is applied to bones with deficient elasticity .
 a fracture along the shaft of a long bone .
a longitudinal fracture of the humerus between its two condyles .
a fracture involving the entire cross section of the bone .
a small piece of bone or cartilage within a joint ,  usually the result of wear and tear and / or trauma .
a condition in which the bone marrow takes on an excessive amount of fluid .
a sac - like closed membranous structure that may be empty or contain fluid or amorphous material .
a bone cyst within the fused epiphysis beneath the articular plate .
a condition which occurs when a synovial plica becomes irritated ,  enlarged or inflamed .
a condition in which there is a deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of cartilage .
articular cartilage does not usually regenerate after injury or disease leading to loss of tissue and formation of a defect .
cartilage separates from the bone and moves .
fissuring represents disruption at right angle to the surface ,  and may extend to partial or full thickness .
marked deviation from normal .
a disease or an abnormality of a joint .
a collection of fluid in a body cavity .
increased fluid in synovial cavity of a joint .
increased fluid in synovial cavity of a knee joint .
a lesion where the distance between a meniscus and the attached ligaments is increased .
anatomical boundary entity which has zero spatial dimension .
anatomical cluster which has as its direct parts all or some members of one or more organ types which are grouped together according to some shared attributes .
a group of tendons involved in the joint extension .
terms used to describe the findings .
the condition in which reasonable knowledge regarding risks ,  benefits or the future is not available .
of uncertain classification ,  characterization or interpretation .
likely to be true .
features that raise a strong possibility of a diagnosis .
widely spread ;  not localized or confined .
limited to a small area or volume .
a mark that is long relative to its width ;  a length  ( straight or curved )  without breadth or thickness .
arising from ,  pertaining to ,  or having many locations .
having uneven or non - uniform distribution .
a weakening in force or intensity .
the result of breaking open or bursting .
in pathology ,  a term that is used to describe a tissue specimen that has a normal appearance .
at least a small amount or number of ,  but not a large amount of ,  or often .
different than the one ( s )  previously specified or mentioned .
the degree of something undesirable .
the first  ( lowest )  level of severity in an ordered list based on a five - level scale of minimal ,  mild ,  moderate ,  marked and severe .
the second level of severity in an ordered list based on a five - level scale of minimal ,  mild ,  moderate ,  marked and severe .
the third level of severity in an ordered list based on a five - level scale of minimal ,  mild ,  moderate ,  marked and severe .
the fourth level of severity in an ordered list based on a five - level scale of minimal ,  mild ,  moderate ,  marked and severe .
the fifth  ( highest )  level of severity in an ordered list based on a five - level scale of minimal ,  mild ,  moderate ,  marked and severe .
lesser or smaller in amount ,  extent or size .
greater or bigger in amount ,  extent ,  or size .
at or near the beginning of a period of time or course of events .
large in quantity ,  range or spatial extent .
being or affecting only a part of something .
subject to little fluctuation ;  showing little if any change .
undamaged in any way ;  whole .
of considerable or relatively great size ,  extent or capacity .
limited in number ,  quantity ,  magnitude or extent .
continuing or permanent .
pertaining to something that remains after an activity that removes the bulk of the substance .
pertaining to a condition that is temporary or of short duration ,  usually not recurring .
referring to events that occur simultaneously ,  but which are regarded as causally unrelated .
immediately noticeable ;  conspicuous .
visible to the naked eye .
restoration of integrity to traumatized tissue .
surgical excision of a meniscus ,  usually from the knee joint .
crumbling or smashing of cancellous bone by forces acting parallel to the long axis of bone .
dissolution of bone that particularly involves the removal or loss of calcium .
a condition that is marked by a decrease in bone mass and density ,  causing bones to become fragile .
traumatic disease occurring at the point of attachment of skeletal muscles to bone ,  where recurring stress causes inflammation and often fibrosis and calcification .
the formation of cartilage .
arthrofibrosis is a complication of injury or trauma where an excessive scar tissue response leads to painful restriction of joint motion .
increased bone density in the subchondral layer .
standing apart from others ;  separate .
out of the usual place or position ,  especially used in reference to a joint .
removed from the normal position or place .
on or near an edge or constituting an outer boundary ;  the outer area .
move or transferred from one place or position to another .
of or pertaining to the exterior surface .
extending relatively far inward .
extending in the direction of the length of a thing ;  lengthwise .
directed along a radius .
swelling caused by excess fluid in body tissues .
a disease in which the function or structure of the affected tissues or organs changes for the worse over time .
change from a higher to a lower form ,  especially change of tissue to a lower or less functionally active form .
the breaking of an entity into smaller parts .
degeneration affecting the skeleton and muscles .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ;  the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
disorders of connective tissue ,  especially the joints and related structures ,  characterized by inflammation ,  degeneration or metabolic derangement .
diseases of the muscles and their associated ligaments and other connective tissue and of the bones and cartilage viewed collectively .
a localized collection of blood within a bone associated with a fracture of the inner ,  spongy layer ,  but not the outer cortical layer of the bone ,  caused by an acute trauma .
of ,  belonging to ,  or occurring at a time immediately before the present .
pivot shift injury is a noncontact injury that occurs when a valgus load is applied to the knee in various states of flexion combined with external rotation of the tibia or internal rotation of the femur ,  which can result in disruption of acl .
injury to a joint due to an extension beyond the normal range of motion .
twisting injury is a noncontact injury  that occurs where the foot remains stuck on the ground and the rest of the body twists ,  causing a rotational stress at the knee .
an injury resulting from a valgus force  ( force from the side )  .
an injury resulting from a varus force  ( force from the inside )  .
pathological process characterized by injury or destruction of tissues caused by a variety of cytologic and chemical reactions ;  usually manifested by typical signs of pain ,  heat ,  redness ,  swelling and loss of function .
in front and below .
in front and away from the middle line .
in front and toward the middle line .
in front and above .
below and to the side .
below and toward the center .
behind and below .
behind and to one side ,  specifically to the outer side .
behind and to the inner side .
behind and above .
above and to the side .
above and toward the midline .
joint space loss is a characteristic radiological feature of osteoarthritis ,  rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory arthropathies of the knees .
a point or area that is approximately central within some larger region or structure .
change in the layer of bone just below the cartilage .
non - neoplastic tumor - like lesions at joints ,  developed from the synovial membrane of a joint through the joint capsule into the periarticular tissues .
anatomical term that represents more than one concept .
something left over after other parts have been taken away .
anatomical connectivity which is established by tissues of different classes of connecting anatomical structures .
anatomical cluster in which parts of two or more anatomical structures establish physical continuity with one another or intermingle their component parts .
an elongatyed anatomical structure which may be a cell ,  e .g .
the tip of a pyramidal or rounded structure ,  such as the lung or the heart .
the bone surface in a joint .
within the tissue substance .
a fracture in which the bone substance of each component is driven into the other resulting in the shortening of bone without loss of alignment .
a localized pathological or traumatic structural change ,  damage ,  deformity or discontinuity of tissue ,  organ or body part .
lipoma arborescens is a benign lesion described as replacement of mature fat cells with sub - synovial tissue ,  which causes the formation of villous projections .
worn away or tattered along the edges .
immaterial anatomical entity which has three spatial dimensions .
popliteal hiatus is the opening defined by the fascicles of the lateral meniscus ,  which permits the popliteal tendon to pursue its course from the tibia to its femoral attachment .
fat pad that fills the space between the suprapatellar recess and the quadriceps tendon .
subdivision of diaphysis which forms the proximal or distal end of diaphysis next to the epiphysis ;  together with diaphysis proper ,  it constitutes the diaphysis .
softening by soaking in a liquid .
toward the tibia .
toward the femur .
toward the patella .
material ,  especially living tissue or an organ ,  surgically attached to or inserted into a body part to replace a damaged part or compensate for a defect .
the area on a surface covered by something .
an intermediate part or section ;  an area that is approximately central within some larger region .
bleeding into the joints .it may arise from trauma or spontaneously in patients with hemophilia .
a cell - substrate junction found at the terminal anchorage site of skeletal muscle cells to tendons .
attachment to femur .
attachment to tibia .
signals that do not faithfully reproduce actual anatomic structures because of distortion or of addition or deletion of information .
an artifact resulting from movement of the object being imaged during the imaging sequence .
an artifact resulting from factors within the object being imaged .
deep recess or groove .
an imaging observation defined by eponym or by reference to nonmedical entities .
a sign on mri of the knee to increase the sensitivity of diagnosing meniscal tears .
the double pcl sign appears on sagittal mri images of the knee when a bucket - handle tear of a meniscus flips medially so that comes to lie anteroinferior to the pcl mimicking a second smaller pcl .
the absent bow tie sign represents the loss of the normal appearance of the menisci on parasagittal mri images ,  and is suggestive of meniscal injury .
contusions of both surfaces of the joint .
happening or arising without apparent external cause .
second or inferior in order of time ,  place or importance .
pes anserinus refers to the conjoined tendons of three muscles that insert onto the anteromedial surface of the proximal extremity of the tibia .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
a lack of occurrence or performance .
the condition of being vascular .
reconversion of bone marrow is a reverse process of natural replacement of red marrow by yellow marrow .
slanting or inclined in direction or course or position ;  neither parallel nor perpendicular nor right - angular .
fibrillation a softening and formation of gaps in the cartilage of a joint .
holding or containing nothing .
the flow of blood from a ruptured blood vessel .
organ region with one or more anchored fiat boundaries .
synovial plicae represent inward folds of the synovial lining of the knee joint capsule .
ascertains or marks the dimensions ,  quantity ,  degree or capacity of .
