the bloodlike fluid of invertebrates having open blood - vascular systems .
differentiated cells with the ability to defend insects against pathogens ,  parasites and other foreign bodies ,  which entered in the hemocoel .
the anterior section  ( tagma )  of the insect body bearing the compound eyes ,  antennae and mouthparts ;  separated from the thorax by the cervix .
the sclerotized skull - like part of the head .
the set of the appednages on the adult head used in feeding .
the membranous tube that attaches the thorax to the margins of the occipital foramen .
the pair of endoskeletal struts of the cranium formed chiefly of the fused anterior and posterior tentorial arms .
one of the paired anterior appendicular organs of the insect head .
the membranous area of the head into which the base of the antenna is set .
the anterior process of the cervical sclerite which articulates with the occipital condyle of the cranium .
the first or basal segment of the antenna .
the second or subbasal segment of the antenna .
the third segment of the antenna .
an individual unit of the antennal flagellum .
a ring of long curved setae borne by each flagellomere of the antenna ;  may be situated basally ,  medially or apically .
a process of the scape which articulates with the pedicel .
an external depression in the cranium at the base of each anterior tentorial arm .
the right or left half of the tentorium comprised mainly of the united anterior and posterior tentorial arms .
the apodeme extending posteriad from the anterior tentorial pit ;  its apex meeting the posterior tentorial arm at a visible fusion point ;  sometimes bearing a small dorsal tentorial arm ;  also sometimes bearing a small ventral tentorial arm .
the apodeme extending anteriad from the posterior tentorial pit ;  its apex meeting the apex of the anterior tentorial arm at a visible fusion point ;  usually with a medial extension which may meet that of the opposite side forming a corpotentorium .
an external depression in the cranium at the base of each posterior tentorial arm ;  occurring at the lower end of the postoccipital suture .
a slender process extending from the dorsal surface near the posterior end of each posterior tentorial arm to the postoccipital ridge .
a short process ,  when present ,  extending anterodorsad from the main part of the anterior tentorial arm .
a line of inflection surrounding the antennal socket .
a light - perceptive organ consisting of an aggregation of optic elements  ( ommatidia )  generally located on each side of the head ;  the cuticular part  ( cornea )  consists of several hundred circular corneal facets  ( lenses )  ;  bounded by the ocular sclerite .
one of the lenslike divisions of the cuticular part  ( cornea )  of the compound eye .
the median longitudinal suture on the dorsal surface of the head  ( vertex )  .
the cuticular ingrowth marked externally by the coronal suture .
the suture marking the anteroventral limit of the frons and terminating laterally in the anterior tentorial pits .
the cranial inflection marked externally by the epistomal suture .
the facial area of the cranium lying between the postfrontal sutures dorsally and the epistomal suture ventrally ;  largely obscured by the convergent antennal sockets .
the anterolateral area of the cranium extending ventroposteriorly from the anterior tentorial pit behind the clypeus and united ventrally with its mate between the compound eyes .
the parts of the genae united ventrally between the compound eyes .
a median longitudinal groove produced by the approximation of the membranous antennal sockets over the narrow middle part of the frons ;  often indistinguishable from the interantennal suture .
the apodeme marked externally by the interantennal suture .
the narrow part of the vertex between the compound eyes and above the postfrontal sutures .
a specialized name applied to a group of erect elongate simple setae and fusiform scales arising from the interocular space and the immediately adjacent portion of the vertex .
one of the ocular setae arising on the interocular space ;  often somewhat longer than other ocular setae .
a projection on either lateral margin of the postocciput to which the cephaliger of a cervical sclerite articulates .
the posterior opening of the head into the cervix .
the region of the cranium corresponding to the occiput but probably including parts of the vertex and postgenae as well .
the posterior dorsal part of the cranium separated from the postocciput by the postoccipital suture .
a simple light - perceptive organ with the cuticular part  ( cornea )  formed into a single lens  ( corneal facet )  ;  occurring singlely or in groups .
the area along the anterior border of the vertex between the margin of the compound eye and the row of ocular setae .
one of the setae occurring in a line on the head near posterior margin of each compound eye .
one of the scales occurring on the ocular line of the head .
one of the ocular setae occurring along the dorsal margin of the compound eye .
one of the ocular setae occurring along the lateral margin of the compound eye .
an extremely narrow cranial area encircling the compound eye within the ocular suture .
a line of inflection encircling the compound eye ;  forming the ocular ridge internally .
the apodeme marked externally by the ocular suture .
one of two sutures diverging from the coronal suture above the ocelli and separating the interocular space from the frons .
the apodeme marked externally by the postfrontal suture .
the lateral and ventral parts of the cranium behind the compound eye .
one of the setae occurring in a group on the postgena at the posteroventral area of the cranium .
the posterior area of the cranium at the dorsal and lateral margins of the occipital foramen ;  separated from the more anterior areas of the cranium by the postoccipital suture ;  bearing a process ,  occipital condyle ,  on each lateral margin to which a cervical sclerite articulates .
a line of inflection extending dorsad from each posterior tentorial pit and separating the postocciput from more anterior areas of the cranium ;  forming the postoccipital ridge internally .
the apodeme marked externally by the postoccipital suture .
a lateral cranial inflection above the bases of the mouthparts .
the apodeme marked externally by the subgenal suture .
the dorsal surface of the head behind the compound eyes and the interocular space ;  its boundaries with the occiput ,  genae and postgenae are not delimited .
the line delimiting the gena from the base of the proboscis ventrally .
a line delimiting the ventral area of the frons from the antennal socket laterally .
a line delimiting the dorsal area of the frons from the antennal socket laterally .
the snoutlike prolongation of the head consisting dorsally of the clypeus and ventrally of the anterior part of each gena ,  the proboscis and the maxillary palpi .
one of the second pair of gnathal appendages .
the inner endite lobe of the maxilla .
one in a series of proximally - directed toothlike processes borne on the outer margin of the distal end of the lacinia .
the teleopodite of the maxilla .
an individual segment of the maxillary palpus .
one of the very minute setae borne in the inner surface of the maxillary palpi of male anopheles .
any one of the setae occurring along the inner and outer margins of the fourth and fifth palpomeres of the maxillary palpi .
the fused cardo and stipes .
the basal subdivision of the maxilla .
the distal subdivision of the maxilla bearing the galea ,  lacinia and maxillary palpus .
the greatly elongated sheathlike labium and the enclosed fascicle .
the fused third or posterior pair of gnathal appendages .
one of two small cuticular plates borne immediately proximal to the prementum ;  receiving the cardino - prementalis from the cardo .
the stipital part of the labium .
one lobe of the partially bilobed structure situated at the apex of the labium .
the unjoined or fused proximal lobes  ( glossae and paraglossae )  of the labium .
a small lobe laterad of the clypeus at the base of the maxillary palpus ;  anatomically a lobe of the maxillary stipes to which the maxillary palpus articulates .
one of several small sclerites occurring ventrally in the membranous articulation between the prementum and the labella of the labium .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove of the prementum which houses the fascicle .
one of two narrow sclerotized stripes borne on the inner surface of each labellum .
in some mosquito larvae ,  the dorsoposterior part or lip of the mandibular lobe .
one in a row of setae occurring ventrally near the base of the labium .
the membranous basal part of the proboscis lying ventrally between the genae .
the closely appressed bundle of six needlike mouthparts  ( stylets )  ,  including the labrum ,  two mandibles ,  two laciniae and the hypopharynx ,  which form the piercing - siphoning apparatus .
each of the structures forming the fascicle .
the median postoral appendage of the head .
the median preoral appendage articulated with the clypeus by the clypeolabral suture .
the part of the palatum formed by the oral surface of the labrum .
a hook - shaped apodeme arising from each side of the dorsal part of the labrum .
one of the first pair of gnathal appendages .
one in a series of small toothlike processes occurring distally along the outer margin of each mandible .
a small internal sclerite articulated with the proximal end of the mandible ventrally and the subgenal ridge dorsally .
the facial area delimited above by the epistomal suture and below by the clypeolabral suture .
the part of palatum formed by the under surface of the clypeus ,  the roof of the cibarium .
a flat ,  sheetlike apodeme extending from the exposed part of the clypeus to the lateral margin of the cibarium .
the transverse suture separating the clypeus and labrum .
the channel formed by the juxtaposition of the mouthparts anterior to the cibarium .
the preoral food cavity between the base of the hypopharynx and the under surface of the clypeus ,  clypeopalatum .
in some female mosquitoes ,  a series of specialized spicules ,  cibarial teeth ,  borne on a transverse ridge ,  cibarial crest ,  and a group of spiculate ridges ,  cibarial ridges ,  lying ventrally at the posterior margin of the cibarium .
the posterior process of the cervical sclerite which articulates with the proepisternum .
a sclerite situated laterally on the cervix ;  anteriorly bearing the cephaliger which articulates with the occipital condyle of the cranium ;  posteriorly bearing a cervical condyle which articulates with the proepisternum .
the membranous tube connecting the thorax to the head at the margins of the occipital foramen ;  laterally supported by the cervical sclerites .
in some female mosquitoes ,  the series of specialized spicules borne on the cibarial crest located ventrally at the posterior margin of the cibarium ;  commonly of two kinds called cones and rods ;  when a single type is present they have more or less the character of cones .
one of the specialized spicules comprising the cibarial teeth ;  having circular ,  oval or elliptical origins between the crests of the cones ;  each rod has a tapered bulbous base and usually has a simple taper ,  rodlike termination ;  bearing small barblike processes laterally .
one of the specialized spicules comprising the cibarial teeth ;  when cones and rods are present ,  they are set alternately ,  the cones anterior to the rods ,  but sending posteriorly a basal extension ,  crest ,  between the bases of the rods ;  consisting of a basal part ,  pediment ,  and a terminal tapered part ,  filament ;  supported in some cases by extra buttresslike ridges ,  roots ,  arising from the flat ventral surface of the cibarium .
the basal part of a cone ;  bearing the filament anteriorly ;  the posterior part ,  crest ,  extends posteriorly and lies between the bases of adjacent rods .
a basal supporting ridge of a cone arising from the flat ventral surface of the cibarium .
the tapered terminal part of a cone borne upon the pediment ;  bearing short lateral processes .
the posterior part of the pediment of the cone extending between the bases of adjacent rods ;  bearing spiculate processes .
the transverse ridge located ventrally at the posterior margin of the cibarium which supports the cibarial teeth .
a hemispherical ,  spiculate structure projecting from the clypeopalatum ;  at the posterior margin of the cibarium ,  presumably the posterior part of the posterior hard palate .
one of the various types of setae borne within the cibarium ;  in groups designated by location as dorsal palatal and ventral setae .
one of the cibarial setae borne lateral and / or posterior to the anterior hard palate of the clypeopalatum ;  the dorsal setae usually consist of two peglike setae located immediately adjacent to the posterolateral margin of the anterior hard palate ,  the more anterior of these is borne within a pit ,  and a linear series of one to six small simple setae borne lateral to the former .
one of four small peglike cibarial setae borne ventrally at the posterior margin of the cibarium .
one of four small peglike cibarial setae borne on the anterior hard palate .
the irregular platelike anterior area of the clypeopalatum ;  bearing one or more palatal seta .
the large platelike posterior area of the clypeopalatum ;  bearing ventral setae near the base of each lateral flange .
in female mosquitoes of some genera ,  one of a series of short spiculate ridges lying just posterior to the cibarial crest and forming part of the cibarial armature .
a small prominence borne on the dorsal  ( internal )  surface of the posterior hard palate .
the lateral expansion of the posterior part of the cibarium .
the floor of the cibarium .
the part of the clypeopalatum between the dorsal and posterior hard palate .
one of a pair of ducts through which saliva passes from the salivary glands ;  fused anteriorly to form the common salivary duct which opens into the salivary pump .
the common median part of the salivary ducts opening into the salivary pump .
the modified salivarium into which the common salivary duct opens at the base of the hypopharynx .
the canal extending the length of the hypopharynx through which saliva passes from the salivary pump .
the anterior opening of the stomodeum located between the cibarium and pharynx ;  not to be confused with the secondary mouth  ( anterior opening of the cibarium )  or the tertiary mouth  ( anterior opening of the food meatus )  .
the part of the stomodeum between the mouth and the oesophagus .
the bulblike posterior expansion of the pharynx behind the brain and the subesophageal ganglion ;  opens posteriorly into the oesophagus .
the part of the stomodeum following the pharynx .
the anterior part of the alimentary canal .
the second or intermediate division  ( tagma )  of the insect body ;  bearing the true legs and wings ;  comprised of the pro -  ,  meso -  and metathoracic segments .
the first or anterior segment of the thorax .
the second or middle segment of the thorax .
the third ,  posterior segment of the thorax .
one of the pair of legs of the mesothorax .
the coxa of the midleg .
the trochanter of one of the midlegs .
the femur of the midleg .
the tibia of one of the midlegs .
the tarsus of one of the midlegs .
the terminal segment of the arthropod midleg distal to the tarsus .
the anterior or posterior unguis of one of the midlegs .
one of the pair of legs of the metathorax .
the coxa of the hindleg .
the trochanter of one of the hindlegs .
the femur of the hindleg .
the tibia of one of the hindlegs .
the tarsus of one of the hindlegs .
the terminal segment of the arthropod hindleg distal to the tarsus .
the anterior or posterior unguis of one of the hindlegs .
one of the pair of legs of the prothorax .
the coxa of the foreleg .
the femur of the foreleg .
the tarsus of one of the forelegs .
the tibia of one of the forelegs .
the trochanter of one of the forelegs .
the terminal segment of the foreleg distal to the tarsus .
the anterior or posterior unguis of one of the forelegs .
in animals ,  one of the paired appendages ordinarily used in locomotion and support .
the basal segment of the leg articulating with the sternum and / or pleuron ;  referred to as fore -  ,  mid -  or hindcoxa as appropriate .
in arthropods ,  one or two short segments between the coxa and femur ;  the usual second segment of the leg in insects ;  referred to as fore -  ,  mid -  or hindtrochanter as appropriate .
in arthropods ,  the usual third segment  ( fourth if two trochanters as present )  of the leg ;  generally the largest leg segment ;  referred to as fore -  ,  mid -  or hindfemur as appropriate .
in arthropods ,  the usual fourth segment of the leg distal to the femur ;  referred to as fore -  mid -  or hindtibia as appropriate .
in arthropods ,  the usual fifth leg segment located distad to the tibia .
an individual subsegment of a tarsus .
the terminal segment of the arthropod leg distal to the tarsus .
an anterior or posterior claw of the arthropod posttarsus ;  either or both may be absent ;  usually both are present on the posttarsus of mosquitoes ;  referred to as fore -  ,  mid -  or hindungues as appropriate .
the ventral sclerite of the posttarsus on which the depressor of the posttarsus is inserted ;  sometimes  ( regularly in mosquitoes )  produced apically as an empodium .
the distal median prolongation of the unguitractor plate .
the modified ,  reduced , drumstick - shaped metathoracic wing of most diptera .
the expanded ,  knoblike distal part of the halter .
the slender ,  stalklike part of the halter bearing the capitellum distally .
the bulbous basal part of the halter supporting the pedicel .
in diptera ,  a notch on the posterior margin of the wing between the alula and distal part .
in many diptera ,  a lobe of the posterior margin of the wing bounded proximally by the upper calypter ,  distally by the axillary incision and anteriorly by the base of the anal vein ;  weakly differentiated in mosquitoes .
the distal calypter of the dipteran wing ;  typically situated above the lower calypter .
in most winged diptera ,  either of two posterior lobes of the posterior margin of the wing proximal of the alula .
the proximal calypter of the dipteran wing ;  typically situated below the upper calypter .
in winged diptera ,  the closely associated ,  though separate ,  bases of the subcosta and of the radius basad of the arculus .
the thickened posterior edge of the upper and lower calypters ;  continuous basally with the posterior scutellar ridge .
the small caudolateral lobe or area of the mesonotum caudad of the posterior notal wing process cephalolaterad of the scutellum ;  usually with one or more setae .
the small angular area located near the center of the parascutellum ;  represented internally by an apodeme which bears the insertion of direct wing muscles .
the external ridge which extends from the lateroposterior angle of the scutellum and unites with the axillary cord of the wing .
the axillary sclerite at the base of the wing articulating with the first and second axillary sclerites and a process on the posterodorsal margin of the posterior mesanepisternum .
the axillary sclerite at the base of the wing articulating with the first and third axillary sclerites and situated at the proximal end and along the caudal margin of the remigium .
the axillary sclerite at the base of the wing articulating with the anterior and postmedian notal wing processes and the second and third axillary sclerites ;  with a muscle attached to it .
the anterior preaxillary sclerite of the wing base supporting the costa ;  the small triangular sclerite in mosquitoes .
a lobe siuated at the base of the costa of the forewing of some insects .
the projection of the lateral scutal margin which articulates with the anterior part of the first axillary sclerite .
a flange of the scutum located caudad and slightly ventrad of the anterior notal wing process which articulates with the posterior part of the first axillary sclerite .
in adult pterygotous insects ,  one of the paired organs of flight occurring on the mesothoracic segment .
in adult pterygotous insects ,  the paired organs of flight occurring on the metathoracic segment .
a crossvein between the radius and cubitus near the wing base in certain insects ,  including mosquitoes .
the crossvein extending between the costa and subcosta near the bas of the wing ;  dividing cell c into a proximal first cell c and a distal second cell c .
the usual third principal longitudinal vein of the wing .
the posterior branch of the radius ;  with a short basal crossveinlike segment between the point of the separation from the radius - two - plus - three and the radiomedial crossvein .
the anterior branch of the radius terminating anteriorly at the apex of the wing .
the posterior branch of radius - two - plus - three extending to the wing apex .
the anterior branch of radius - two - plus - three represented by a short vein near the wing apex .
the stem of radius - one and radius - two ;  branching from the radial sectors with radius - three - plus - four .
the usual second principal longitudinal vein of the wing .
the stem of radius - one - plus - two and radius - three - plus - four ;  splitting from the stem of the radius with radius - one .
the crossvein extending between the radius and media .
the anterior branch of media - one - plus - two which reaches the margin of the wing near the apex .
the anterior branch of the media  ( media posterior )  which splits into media - one and media - two near the wing apex .
the posterior branch of the media  ( media posterior )  ;  with a short basal crossveinlike segment which traditionally has been considered to be the mediocubital crossvein ;  the longer distal part has been considered to be cubitus - one .
the posterior branch of media - one - plus - two .
the crossvein extending between the media and cubitus .
the usual fourth longitudinal vein of the wing ;  primitively with two branches ,  media anterior and media posterior ,  but only the latter occurs in the holometabola in which it is conventionally called the media .
the usual fifth longitudinal vein of the wing ;  usually with two main branches ,  cubitus anterior and cubitus posterior .
the anterior branch of the cubitus .
the posterior branch of the cubitus .
an area of wing membrane delimited by veins or by veins and the wing margin ;  named after the vein immediately anterior to it or after the posterior element if the vein is formed by the  \ "fusion \ " of two vein branches .
the cell occurring between the posterior wing margin and the anal vein .
the cell posterior to the costa ;  subdivided by the humeral crossvein into the proximal first cell c and the large distal second cell c .
the extremely narrow cell posterior to the cubitus anterior ;  usually indistinctly separated from cell cup by the weak and often incomplete cubitus posterior .
the cell posterior to the weakly developed cubitus posterior .
the cell posterior to the stem of the media .
the cell posterior to media - one ;  its length is measured along the longitudinal axis of the stem and media - one - plus - two from the point of separation of media - one and media - two ;  this length is usually compared to the length of media - one - plus - two measured along the same axis .
the cell posterior to media - one - plus - two and media two .
the cell posterior to media - three - plus - four .
the cell posterior to the stem of the radius and the radial sector .
the cell posterior to radius - one .
the cell enclosed between radius - two and radius - three ;  its length is measured along the projection of the longitudinal axis of radius - two - plus - three from the point of separation of radius - two and radius - three ;  this length compared to the length of radius - two - plus - three measured along the same axis .
the cell posterior to radius - two - plus - three and radius - three .
the cell posterior to radius - four - plus - five .
the cell posterior to the stem of the subcosta proximad of the crossveinlike subcosta - two ;  usually applied to the combined cells sc and sc1 .
the cell posterior to sub - costa one ;  usually regarded as part of cell sc .
in arthropods ,  the antenna - bearing membrane covering the antennal socket .
in culicid larvae ,  any labropalatal hair between the inner edges of the lateral palatal penicular areas .
the usual first principal longitudinal vein of the wing typically extending around the wing apex from its articulation with the humeral plate ;  sometimes absent posteriorly and apically ;  sometimes somewhat removed from the margin .
any principal longitudinal vein between the cubitus and the jugum .
in many winged insects ,  one or more rows of setae or scales projecting beyond the wing margin .
in many winged insects ,  any scale in the wing fringe .
one of the small linear scales set in two rows on the wing margin ,  on the dorsal surface just inside the row of fringe scales and the other on the ventral surface just inside the row of secondary fringe scales ;  poorly developed or absent in males .
one of the short fusiform scales  ( shorter than fringe scales )  occurring in a row along the ventral surface of the wing edge .
any decumbent scale .in mosquitoes ,  usually only applied to the generally short broad squame scales on the wing veins .
one of a set of erect and usually long linear scales which together with the wing vein to which they attach somewhat resemble a plume feather .
the notum of the mesothorax .
the part of a tergum cephalad of the antecostal suture .
the principal dorsal area of the thorax belonging to the mesonotum ;  used here for the combined prescutum and scutum because these areas in the mosquito are only separated laterally by an obsolescent prescutal suture .
a longitudinal area of the scutum on each side of the acrostichal area extending from the anterior promontory to the prescutellar area ;  indefinitely divided into anterior and posterior dorsocentral areas at the level of the antealar area ;  bearing the dorsocentral scales and setae .
the part of the dorsocentral area cephalad of about the level of the antealar area ;  with setae and scales .
one of the scales occurring in a more or less distinct line located cephalad of the posterior scutal fossal scales on the anterior dorsocentral area of the scutum .
a dorsocentral seta occurring on the anterior dorsocentral area ;  occurring in one or more rows .
the part of the dorsocentral area caudad of a point near the median corner of the scutal fossa at about the level of the antealar area ;  with scales and setae .
one of the scales occurring in a more or less distinct longitudinal row usually located lateral of the posterior dorsocentral setae on the posterior dosocentral area of the scutum .
a dorsocentral seta occurring on the posterior dorsocentral area ;  occurring in one or more rows which merge posteriorly with the prescutellar setae .
any scale borne on the dorsocentral area of the scutum ;  may occur in more or less distinct anterior ,  posterior ,  inner and / or outer longitudinal rows .
any seta occurring on the dorsocentral area ;  divided into anterior and posterior rows near the median posterior corner of the scutal fossa at about the level of the antealar area .
the posterior area of a notum separated from the scutum by the scutoscutellar suture .
one of the scales occurring in a small group on each lateral lobe of the scutellum .
one of the setae occurring in a small group on each lateral lobe of the scutellum .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the middle lobe of the scutellum .
one of the setae occurring in a group on the middle lobe of the scutellum .
the line of inflection dividing the mesonotum into the scutum and scutellum .
the broad median area of the mesonotum at the anterior end of the acrostichal area which more or less projects cephalad over the cervix .
any seta occurring in a small cluster anteriorly on the midline of the anterior promontory .
one of the scales usually forming a tuft at the middle of the anterior margin of the anterior promontory in anophelinae .
a narrow lateral part of the mesonotum just before the wing root ;  separated from the scutum by the paranotal suture .
the strongly developed suture separating the paratergite from the scutum ;  often appearing to be continuous posteriorly with the supraalar groove .
the furrow lateral to the scutum above the wing base ;  marked internally by a prominent ridge on its mesal side ;  often appearing to be continuous anteriorly with the paranotal suture .
the well developed postnotum of the mesothorax ;  bearing the second phragma along its lateroposterior borders ;  subdivided into a large median area ,  mediotergite ,  and small lateral areas ,  pleurotergites .
the large median area of the mesopostnotum ;  sometimes with scales or setae .
in diptera ,  the lateral area of the mesopostnotum above the metathoracic spiracle .
the upper division of the pleurotergite ;  bearing internally an apodeme along its upper margin ,  upper pleurotergite apodeme .
the lower division of the pleurotergite located immediately above the metathoracic spiracle ;  bearing internally an apodeme ,  lower pleurotergite apodeme along its upper margin .
the somewhat - depressed anterolateral area of the scutum  ( prescutum )  extending caudad to the level of the scutal angle and mesad before the prescutal suture to the dorsocentral area .
one of the setae occurring in a group near the center of the scutal fossa .
one of the setae occurring in a v - shaped group on the midline of the scutum at the posterior end of the row of acrostichal setae and anterior to the prescutellar area .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the central area of the scutal fossa .
the median posterior area of the scutum between the acrostichal area and the scutellum ;  frequently devoid of scales and setae .
any scale occurring in the prescutellar area of the prescutum ;  usually occurring in a curved line on the lateral and anterior margins ;  those extending posteriorly from the dorsocentral scales on the lateral margins may be referred to as lateral prescutellar scales ;  those occurring on the anterior margin and sometimes forming a median longitudinal row may be termed median prescutellar scales .
any seta usually occurring in several rows on the anterior and / or lateral margins of the prescutellar area ;  often difficult to separate anteriorly from the dorsocentral setae .
in many diptera ,  the largely obsolescent suture extending caudomesad from the posterior edge of the scutal angle to the prescutal pit .
a small depression on each side of the anterior part of the scutum from which the obsolescent prescutal suture extends anterolaterally to the scutal margin .
the lateral area of the scutum just above and in front of the wing ;  a line of setae in this area may extend anterior to the posterior end of the paratergite mesad to the antealar setae ;  a line of scales in this area is sometimes continuous with an antealar line .
one of the scales occurring on the supraalar area of the scutum ;  a distinct lateral line of supraalar scales is often present otherwise they are difficult to separate from the antealar scales .
one of the setae occurring in a cluster on the supraalar area of the scutum ;  a row of supraalar setae may extend cephalad above the antealar area or be more or less continuous with the caudal end of a row of antealar setae .
the more or less distinct angular projection of the scutal margin just anterior to the prescutal suture or just in front of prespiracular area when the prescutal suture is not discernible .
the lateral area of the scutum at the level of the paratergite ;  bearing the antealar scales and setae .
one of the scales occurring on the antealar area of the scutum ;  a distinct line of antealar scales may be continuous anteriorly with a lateral scutal fossal scales and posteriorly with a lateral line of supraalar scales .
one of the setae occurring in a longitudinal row on the antealar area of the scutum immediately above to the paratergite ;  sometimes more or less continuous with the supraalar area posteriorly .
the notum of the prothorax .
the pleuron of the prothorax .
the area of the propleuron posterior to the propleural suture .
the area of the propleuron anterior to the propleural suture .
any seta borne on the proepisternum .
any scale borne on the proepisternum .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the proepisternum above the base of the forecoxa ;  sometimes continuous with the lower proepisternal scales mesoventrally .
one of the proepisternal setae occurring in a group above the forecoxa .
one of the proepisternal scales occurring in a group mesad of the forecoxa and below the upper proepisternal scales ;  sometimes continuous with the upper proepisternal scales dorsolaterally .
one of the proepisternal setae occurring in a group mesad of the forecoxa and below the upper proepisternal setae .
the pleuron of the metathorax .
the area of the metapleuron anterior to the metapleural suture .
one of the scales occurring in a small group on the metepisternum just below the metathoracic spiracle .
the area of the metapleuron posterior to the metapleural suture .
the external groove  ( pleural suture )  of the metapleural ridge separating the metepisternum from the metepimeron .
the pleural ridge marked externally by the metapleural suture ;  extending dorsad from the apophyseal pit  ( when present )  along the posterior margin of the metepisternum .
the pleuron of the mesothorax .
the area of the mesopleuron posterior to the mesopleural suture .
the large upper area of the mesepimeron .
the lower division of the mesepimeron .
any scale borne on the mesepimeron .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the ventroposterior quarter of the mesanepimeron .
one of the mesepimeral scales occurring in a group on the cephalodorsal quarter of the mesanepimeron .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the ventroanterior quarter of the mesanepimeron .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the dorsoposterior quarter of the mesanepimeron ;  occupying the same area as the upper mesepimeral setae .
any seta borne on the mesepimeron .
one of the setae occurring in groups on the anterior ,  middle and / or posterior area of the mesanepimeron below the level of the metathoracic spiracle .
one of the setae occurring in a group on the upper posterior area of the mesanepimeron before the metathoracic spiracle .
the epimeral epipleurite giving insertion to the posterior pleural wing muscles .
the episternal epipleurite giving insertion to the anterior pleural wing muscles .
the area of the mesopleuron anterior to the mesopleural suture .
the precoxal sclerite of the mesopleuron .
dark and pale spots on the wings of mosquitoes correspond to areas with dark and pale scales on the veins .
the group of pale scales sometimes occurring on the radius at or just distad of the splitting of radius - one and the radial sector and usually separated by a dark spot from the sector pale .
the group of dark scales on the costa and radius - one distad of the preapical pale and proximad of the apical pale .
the group of pale scales usually occurring at the extreme apex of the wing distad of the apical dark on the costa and radius - one ;  sometimes absent .
the group of dark scales occurring between the basal pale and prehumeral pale on the proximal end of the costa .
the group of pale scales occurring at the extreme base of the costa .
a row of pale fringe scales occurring near the middle of the posterior margin of cell 1a .
the group of dark scales occurring on the costa between the humeral pale and presector pale .
the group of pale scales occurring at or slightly distal to the humeral crossvein on the costa .
a usually large group of dark scales occurring on the costa near the middle of the wing beyond the sector pale .
a row of pale fringe scales named after the vein at the end of which it occurs ;  an exception is the basal pale fringe spot .
the pale fringe spot located at the outer end of the anal vein .
the group of dark scales occurring beyond the subcostal pale ;  frequently interrupted by a small pale spot on radius - one .
the group of pale scales occurring between the preapical dark and apical dark on the costa and radius - one .
the group of dark scales occurring on the costa just before the humeral crossvein .
the group of pale scales occurring on the costa before the humeral crossvein and usually separated from it by the prehumeral dark .
the group of dark scales occurring between the presector pale and sector pale ;  when the presector pale is absent ,  this spot forms part of the subbasal dark .
the group of pale scales often interrupting the subbasal dark to give rise to the humeral dark and presector dark .
the group of pale scales occurring on the costa ,  subcosta and radius before the splitting of radius - one and the radial sector and between the presector dark and median dark .
the large group of dark scales distad of the humeral pale ;  sometimes including the prehumeral dark or even the basal dark ;  often interrupted by a pale spot ,  presector pale ,  to give rise to the humeral dark and presector dark .
the group of pale scales occurring on the costa and radius - one at and beyond the end of subcosta - one between the median dark and preapical dark .
the external groove  ( pleural suture )  of the mesopleural ridge ;  extending from the base of the wing to the midcoxal articulation ;  separating the mesepisternum from the mesepimeron .
the pleural ridge marked externally by the mesopleural suture ;  extending from the pleural apophyseal pit above the midcoxal articulation to the base of the wing .
the line of inflection which separates the mesotrochantin from the mesokatepisternum ;  appears to be continuous ventrally with the mesopleurosternal suture ;  appears to terminate dorsally at the pleural apophyseal pit ;  with an internal apodeme ,  the paracoxal ridge .
the apodeme marked externally by the paracoxal suture ;  extending from the pleural apophysis to the mesopleurosternal ridge .
the lower area of the mesepisternum .
any seta borne on the mesokatepisternum .
one of the setae occurring in a more or less vertical line along the posterior margin of the mesokatepisternum at about the level of the mesotrochantin ;  sometimes continuous with the upper mesokatepisternal setae .
one of the setae occurring in more or less a horizontal line on the upper part of the mesokatepisternum .
any scale borne on the mesokatepisternum .
one of the scales occurring in a group located immediately in front of the lower mesokatepisternal setae .
one of the scales occurring in a group located immediately below the upper mesokatepisternal setae .
the upper area of the mesepisternum separated from the mesokatepisternum by the mesanapleural suture .
in some diptera ,  the somewhat triangular anterior part of the mesanepisternum bearing the mesothoracic spiracle ;  separated from the posterior mesanepisternum and the mesokatepisternum by the anepisternal cleft .
the vertically narrow posterior part of the mesanepisternum ;  separated from the anterior mesanepisternum by the anepisternal cleft .
the suture occurring between the mesanepisternum and the mesokatepisternum .
in many diptera ,  the membranous space separating the anterior and posterior mesanepisterna and extending anteroventrally between the anterior mesanepisternum and the mesokatepisternum .
the external groove  ( pleural suture )  of the propleural ridge ;  separating the proepisternum and proepimeron above the articulation of the forecoxa .
the endopleural apodeme  ( pleural ridge )  marked externally by the propleural suture ;  extending dorsad between the proepisternum and proepimeron from the dorsal limit of the sternal apophysis above the coxal articulation .
a coxal cavity of the prothorax .
one of a pair of apodemes arising from the sternum .
the sternum of the prothorax .
the basisternum of the prothorax .
the area of the prosternum posterior to the sternacostal suture and / or the apophyseal pits .
the external groove extending between the apophyseal pits and separating the basisternum and furcasternum .
the external groove between the proepisternum and probasisternum .
the apodeme marked externally by the propleurosternal suture .
the sternum of the mesothorax .
the basisternum of the mesothorax .
the area of the mesosternum bearing the mesofurca .
the furca of the mesothoracic segment .
an apodeme of the mesothorax arising from the posterior mesanepisternum slightly below the basalare .
the sclerotized area of the anterior anepisternum lying posterior to the mesothoracic spiracle ;  connected or continuous with the subspiracular area ventrally ;  scales and setae are borne on this area .
one of the setae occurring in a group on the postspiracular area of the anterior mesanepisternum .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the postspiracular area of the anterior mesanepisternum ;  sometimes extending posteriorly on to the membrane of the anepisternal cleft .
the rather indefinite area of the anterior mesanepisternum lying below the hypostigmal area between the proepimeron and the postspiracular area ;  usually continuous with or connected to the postspiracular area ventrally ;  scales and rarely setae may be on this area .
one of the setae which rarely occur on the subspiracular area of the anterior mesanepisternum .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the subspiracular area of the anterior mesanepisternum .
the small area of the anterior mesanepisternum just anterior to the mesothoracic spiracle ;  set off from the postpronotum by a strong ridge ;  sometimes bearing scales and setae .
any seta occurring on the prespiracular area of the anterior mesanepisternum .
one of the scales occurring in a small group on the prespiracular area of the anterior mesanepisternum .
the weakly sclerotized or membranous area of the anterior mesanepisternum immediately below the mesothoracic spiracle ;  its boundary with the subspiracular area is usually poorly defined ;  scales sometimes occur on this area .
one of the scales occurring in a small cluster on the hypostigmal area of the anterior mesanepisternum .
the spiracle of the mesothorax .
the convex protuberance borne on the upper part of the posterior mesanepisternum anterior to the wing ;  with scales and setae .
any scale borne anterior to the wing on the posterior mesanepisternum ;  an upper group occurs among and above the prealar setae and a lower group sometimes occurs below them .
one of the setae occurring in a group on the prealar knob of the posterior mesanepisternum .
one of the scales occurring principally on the prealar knob among and above the prealar setae .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the posterior mesanepisternum below the prealar setae .
the line of demarcation extending along the anterodorsal margin of the combined mesokatepisternum and posterior mesanepisternum .
in some diptera ,  the posterior division of the pronotum generally lying between the antepronotum and the scutum cephalad of the scutal angle .
in mosquitoes and some other diptera ,  the anterior division of the pronotum ;  visible as a lateral setose lobe just above the proepisternum .
a transverse suture of a notum .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the proepimeron .
the meron of the mesothorax located slightly above and immediately behind the midcoxa below the mesepimeron .
an apodeme borne along the upper margin of the upper pleurotergite ;  giving support to the walls of the mesopostnotum .
the apodeme borne along the upper margin of the lower pleurotergite ;  lending support to the walls of the mesopostnotum .
the oval flaplike apodemal lobes of the antecosta of the mesopostnotum ;  bearing the attachment of some longitudinal flight muscles .
the external groove of the antecosta .
the platelike  ( usually )  apodemal arms of the antecosta located just under the overhanging anterior promontory and internally connecting the antepronota ;  extending posteriorly from each antepronotum as a thin rod - shaped apodeme  ( phragmal thread )  and attaching to the posterior border of the postpronotum .
the part of a sternum anterior to the antecostal suture ;  absent from the thoracic sterna .
any seta borne on the parascutellum ;  usually one or more in number .
an internal bladelike process projecting ventrad from the parascutellum .
the large ,  posteriorly curved invagination of the mesopleurosternal suture extending laterally along the anterior margin of the mesocoxal cavity ;  reaching posteriorly along the body midline to the base of the mesofurca ;  confluent along the mesal margin with the median longitudinal ridge of the mesosternum .
the external groove between the mesokatepisternum and the mesobasisternum ,  or the mesosternum when the mesobasisternum is not discernible .
the groove produced incidental to the median longitudinal invagination ,  mesosternal ridge ,  of the mesosternum ;  extending from the mesopleurosternal sutures to the intersegmental suture between the meso -  and metathorax ;  bearing the slitlike apophyseal pit between the coxal bases .
the median longitudinal invagination marked externally by the mesosternal suture ;  confluent anteriorly with the mesal margins of the mesopleurosternal ridges and posteriorly with the intersegmental ridge between the meso -  and metathorax ;  bearing the mesofurca between the coxal cavities .
the sternum of the metathorax .
the basisternum of the metathorax .
the area of the metasternum bearing the metafurca ;  usually reduced and not readily discernible .
the furca of the metasternum .
the coxal cavity of the metathorax .
the meron of the metathorax represented by a vertically narrow sclerite above the hindcoxa .
the postnotum of the metathorax .
one of the scales occurring in a small cluster on the metameron .
by definition ,  the notum of the metathorax which include the mesopostnotum ;  for convenience ,  normally applied only to the primary sclerotization of the dorsum lying between the meso -  and metapostnota .
in general ,  a line or groove separating adjacent segments .
the apodeme marked externally by the intersegmental suture .
in diptera ,  the narrow ridge uniting the ventral extremities of the mesokatepisternal between the pro -  and mesosterna .
the anterior ,  internal transverse ridge of a tergum or sternum marked externally by the antecostal suture ,  serving for the attachment of longitudinal muscles ;  bearing the phragmata of the meso -  and metanota .
in culicid and dixid larvae ,  the midpalatal lobe together with the midpalatal brush .
in animals ,  any photoreceptor organ composed of many photoreceptor cells ,  along with accessory parts such as lenses .
in culicid and some other nematocerous larvae ,  any hair in the lateral palatal brush .
a cuplike process borne on the free end of a sternal apophysis ;  receiving the attachment of certain thoracic muscles .
an internal transverse ridge connecting the bases of the sternal apophyses and marked externally by the sternacostal suture .
the tergum of a thoracic segment comprising the primary segmental sclerotization and the preceding intersegmental sclerotization ,  the acrotergite .
the ventral sclerotization of a body segment ,  primary sternum ;  the definitive sternum ,  which in the thorax includes the primary sternum ,  the infracoxal sclerotization of the primitive subcoxal plate and sometimes the intersegmental spinasternum .
a subdivision of the sternum i ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
the sclerotization of the pleural or lateral area of a body segment ;  in the thorax ,  termed pro -  ,  meso -  or metapleuron as appropriate .
the apodeme marked externally by the pleural suture ;  extending dorsad from the coxal articulation and separating the episternum from the epimeron ;  referred to as pro -  ,  meso -  or metapleural ridge as appropriate .
the external groove of the pleural ridge separating the episternum and epimeron ;  referred to as pro -  ,  meso -  or metapleural suture as appropriate .
a process of the pleuron located at the upper end of the pleural suture which serves as a fulcrum for the wing .
the internal arm of the propleural ridge ;  marked externally by the propleural apophyseal pit .
the external depression marking the point of origin of the propleural apophysis ;  usually located at the lower end of the pleural suture .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the antepronotum ;  sometimes forming a tuft .
any seta occurring on the antepronotum .
a fissure separating the metanotum and metapostnotum dorsally and extending ventrad between the metepimeron and metapostnotum on each side to the level of the pleural apophysis  ( when present )  ;  bearing the dorsal part of the intersegmental suture along the caudal margin and the ventral part of the metapleural suture as well as the intersegmental apodeme along its anterior margin .
the spiracle of the metathorax .
the process of the propleuron which articulates with the coxa .
the membrane between the forecoxa and the mesokatepisternum ;  sometimes bearing scales .
one of the scales occurring in a small group on the postprocoxal membrane .
any scale borne on the postpronotum .
one of the scales usually occurring in a large group on the dorsal part of the postpronotum .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the ventral part of the postpronotum .
one of the setae occurring in an arcuate line on the upper posterior margin of the postpronotum .
a small sclerite extending dorsad from the upper anterior edge of the posterior mesanepisternum to the supraalar groove .
a small sclerite of the metapleuron located immediately below the metathoracic spiracle ;  apparently an accessory plate of the mesepisternum .
a coxal cavity of the mesothorax .
the median longitudinal invagination of the metasternum  ( metabasisternum )  marked externally by the metasternal suture ;  extending from the intersegmental suture between the meso -  and metathorax to the metafurca .
the groove produced incidental to the median longitudinal invagination ,  metasternal ridge ,  of the metasternum  ( metabasisternum )  ;  extending from the intersegmental suture between the meso -  and metathorax to the sternacostal suture .
an internal ridge having its origin at the base of the pleural apophysis and extending along the posterior margin of the mesocoxal cavity ;  receiving the attachment of indirect wing muscles .
the projection of the sternum serving from the ventral point of articulation with the coxa .
the area of a thoracic sternum anterior to the sternacostal suture and / or the sternal apophyseal pits .
in apterygote insects ,  the furcasternum is designated as the area of the thoracic sternum separated from the basisternum by the sternacosta .
applied to the internal median longitudinal line formed where the mesopleurosternal ridges of opposite sides meet and are confluent with the mesosternal ridge .
a forked endoskeletal structure of the thoracic sterna of pterygote insects formed of the sternal apophyses supported on a median inflection ;  somewhat poorly developed in the pro -  and metathoracic segments of mosquitoes ;  referred to as pro -  ,  meso -  or metafurca as appropriate .
the furca of the prosternum .
in culicid larvae ,  any hair in the midpalatal brush .
the median longitudinal area of the scutum from the anterior promontory to the prescutellar space ;  bearing the acrostichal setae .
one of the scales usually occurring in one or two lines on the acrostichal area of the scutum ;  when two rows are present they are borne on either side of the acrostichal setae  ( unless present )  ;  sometimes merging posteriorly with the prescutellar scales .
one of the setae occurring in a median longitudinal row on the acrostichal area of the scutum ;  absent in some genera and / or species .
one of the setae occurring in a group on the anterolateral margin of the scutal fossa above the posterior margin of the antepronotum .
the external ridge extending from the anterolateral angle of the scutellum to the base of the posterior notal wing process .
the proximal area of the wing including the basal parts of the costa ,  radius and remigium .
the area between the acrostichal and dorsocentral setae on roughly the anterior half of the scutum .
one of the small articulatory plates located between the lateral margin of the notum and the bases of the wing veins in wing - flexing insects .
a longitudinal proximal extension of the radial sector or radius - four - plus - five when these are sharply bent in the form of a crossvein near their points of origin .
by christophers ;  a line of thickening which occurs from a point anterior to the calypter and proximal to the alula at the axillary incision when the wing is extended or  ( by owen )  a conical area located in the wing membrane posterior to the radius .
a prolongation of the proximal margin of the second axillary sclerite which articulates with the third axillary sclerite .
the opening or space by which the coxa articulates with the thorax ,  acetabulum ;  referred to as pro -  ,  meso -  or metacoxal cavity as appropriate .
any seta occurring on a coxa ;  may be described as inner ,  outer ,  anterior ,  posterior ,  upper and lower fore -  ,  mid -  and hindcoxal setae as appropriate .
a short ,  usually transverse vein between two longitudinal veins .
the thin transparent or translucent tissue of the wing between the veins and / or margins ;  usually with microtrichia .
a faint ridge or convex fold of the wing membrane running parallel to the wing margin across the apex of the cubitus anterior ,  extending anteriorly at least halfway to the apex of media - three - plus - four posteriorly fading away near the anal vein .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the ventral surface of the wing at the base of the cubitus posterior and extending to the base of the anal vein .
one of the scales occurring in a more or less distinct longitudinal row located mesad of the dorsocentral setae on the dorsocentral area of the scutum ;  usually difficult to separate posteriorly from the lateral prescutellar scales .
the line of thickening occurring where folds form in the region of the alula and calypter when the wing is extended .
an often well developed apodeme borne on the anterior margin of the intersegmental cleft and extending dorsad from the metapleural ridge ;  perhaps homologous with the third phragma of certain other insects .
a posterior basal lobe or area of the wing set off from the anal area by the axillary incision .
the joint between the femur and tibia .
a group of pale scales occurring at the terminations of the femur ,  tibia and first tarsomere ;  normally applied to a band of pale scales occurring at the apex of the femur .
the first subsegment of the tarsus .
the second subsegment of the tarsus .
the third subsegment of the tarsus .
the fourth subsegment of the tarsus .
the fifth subsegment of the tarsus .
one of the scales usually forming a tuft on the lateral corner of the anterior promontory in anophelinae .
one of the setae occurring in a small cluster on the lateral corner of the anterior promontory at or near the anterior end of the dorsocentral setae .
one of the prescutellar scales occurring in a line on each lateral margin of the prescutellar area of the scutum ;  difficult to separate anteriorly from the dorsocentral scales .
one of the setae occurring in a small group on the lateral margin of the scutal fossa above the postpronotum .
one of the scales occurring in a more or less distinct line on the lateral margin of the scutal fossa above the ante -  and postpronotum ;  may be continuous posteriorly with the antealar scales .
one of the prescutellar scales occurring in a transverse line on the anterior margin and / or in a median longitudinal line on the prescutellar area of the scutum .
the lateral postarticular area of the coxal base proximal to the basicostal suture .
an internal ridge along the ventral margin of the mesanepimeron serving for the attachment of wing muscles .
the area of the scutum comprising the acrostichal and dorsocentral areas .
one of the scales occurring in a small cluster on the median posterior area of the mediotergite .
one of the setae occurring in a small group on the median posterior area of the mediotergite .
one of the scales occurring in a group on the paratergite .
a strand of cuticle extending from the pleural apophysis to a small projection at the upper end of the mesopleural ridge .
the postcoxal part of the pleuron ,  often united with the sternum .
one of the scales occurring in a more or less distinct line extending diagonally from the scutal angle to the dorsocentral scales along the posterior margin of the scutal fossa .
one of the setae usually occurring in a short row on the posterior margin of the scutal fossa between the scutal angle and the dorsocentral area .
a line of thickening at the wing base associated with the bases of the media ,  cubitus and anal vein ;  resembling a vein without scales which passes to the wing margin at the junction of the alula and calypter .
the area of the scutum posterior to the scutal fossa between the dorsocentral setae and the antealar and supraalar setae .
the phragma - bearing plate in the dorsum of a pterothoracic segment ;  derived from the anterior part  ( acrotergite )  of the following notum .
an apodeme arising internally from the area of the prealar bridge ;  an important flight muscle is attached to this structure .
a more or less distinct crossvein or transverse furrow between the radius and subcosta in line with the arculus .
a dorsal furrow in cell m4 lying near and parallel to the cubitus anterior ;  ending just short of the cubitomarginal ridge distally ;  extending proximally at least halfway to the mediocubital crossvein ;  usually strengthened by a veinlike thickening .
the depression between the forecoxae where the proepisterna are separated by the confluent propleurosternal sutures .
one of two padlike or divided lobes on the prothoracic posttarsus of some insects ;  one arising below the base of each unguis .
in diptera ,  any seta occurring on the remigium  ( the closely associated bases of the subcosta and radius )  .
a sclerotized saber - shaped bar connected to the base of the cubitus .
any scale borne on the scutal fossa ;  often occurring in three more or less distinct groups ,  the lateral ,  posterior and median scutal fossal scales .
any seta borne on the scutal fossa ;  often occurring in four distinct groups ,  the anterior ,  lateral ,  posterior and median scutal fossal setae .
any scale borne on the scutellum ;  frequently separated into distinct median and lateral groups ,  the median and lateral scutellar scales .
any seta occurring on the scutellum .
the external depression marking of origin of the sternal apophysis .
one of the setae occurring in a group on the base of the subcosta on the ventral surface of the wing .
the anterior branch of the subcosta connected distally with the costa .
the short crossveinlike posterior branch of the subcosta connected with the radius .
a line of thickening formed at the proximal end of the alula when the wing is extended .
the median dorsal process of the distal tarsomere with which the ungues articulate .
one of the tubular thickenings of a wing often containing blood ,  tracheae and nerves .
the third ,  posterior division  ( tagma )  of the insect body .
one of the annular subdivisions of the insect abdomen .
the coxopodite ,  i .e . ,  the basal segment or coxa ,  of an appendage of the genital segment ,  abdominal segment ix .
the coxite of the gonocoxopodite .
the stylus of the gonocoxopodite ;  movable and attached at or near the apex of the gonocoxite ;  probably representing the exite lobe of the primitive coxopodite .
the differentiated ,  more or less spiniform seta ( e )  at or near the apex of the gonostylus in some male mosquitoes ;  frequently flattened or variously modified and markedly different from other setae ;  not strictly homologous between all species .
in male mosquitoes ,  a descriptive term applied to a variably - shaped lobe arising mesally at the base of the gonocoxite ;  possibly homologous with the prosophallus or the basal mesal lobe .
in male mosquitoes ,  a specialized apical seta of the claspette ;  usually simple or foliform .
in male mosquitoes ,  the basal part of the claspette ;  bearing the claspette filament apically .
in male anopheles ,  one of usually a pair of prominent setae located near the mesal margin of the dorsal  ( prerotation sense )  surface of the gonocoxite ;  dorsal to the internal seta and distal to the parabasal setae .
a strong subapical seta arising mesally on the gonocoxite of male anopheles .
in some male mosquitoes ,  the unsclerotized mesal surface of the gonocoxite .
in male anophelinae ,  a variably - developed lobe located dorsobasally  ( prerotation sense )  on the gonocoxite ;  bearing one or more strongly developed setae ,  parabasal setae .
in male anophelinae ,  any distinctive seta usually borne on a lobe ,  the parabasal lobe ,  located dorsobasally  ( prerotation sense )  on the gonocoxite .
in some culicine larvae ,  the dorsalmost group of lateral premental teeth occurring on the labiohypopharynx ;  usually connected with the premental dental arch or the prementoligular teeth .
in culicine larvae ,  either of two paired rodlike projections of sensilla situated on the labropalatum between the midpalatal brushes .
defined by snodgrass as  \ "a simple sense organ ,  or one of the structural units of a compound sense organ ,  \ " and by schneider as  \ "a specialized area of the integument ,  consisting of formative cells ,  the sensory nerve cells ,  and ,  in some cases ,  auxiliary cells \ " .
a vague area probably including the lateral palatal plate and perhaps also the lateral palatal penicular area .
in some culicine larvae ,  the ventralmost group of lateral premental teeth occurring on the labiohypopharynx .
one of the small tuberculiform or nodulelike projections sometimes occurring on the sides or at the bases of ventral teeth 1 - 3 .
in certain culicine larvae ,  a lateral sclerite on abdominal segment viii which bears the comb scales ;  sometimes the comb plates of opposite sides are joined dorsally ;  not homologous with the tergal plate of anopheline ,  orthopodomyia ,  or corethrella  ( chaoborid )  larvae ;  also not homologous with the large setal support plate which commonly bears setae 2 - 5 viii in toxorhynchitine larvae .
in mansoniini larvae ,  the tubercle bearing seta 2 - s at the dorsal base of the spiracular apparatus .
in chagasia and dixid larvae ,  one of the setae bordering the outer margins of the posterolateral spiracular lobes of the spiracular apparatus ;  also bordering the anterolateral spiracular lobes of dixid larvae ;  vestiges of the fringing setae appear as a corrugated or undulated membrane in many mosquito larvae .
in mansoniini larvae ,  one in a set of bilaterally paired spicules at the distal end of posterolateral spiracular lobe plate i ;  retracted into the spiracular apparatus when not being used to anchor the structure in plant tissue .
in mansoniini larvae ,  the internal wall of the modified spiracular apparatus largely comprised of the anterior spiracular lobe  ( saw )  ,  spiracular processes and posterolateral spiracular lobe plates i .
in orthopodomyia larvae ,  a small transverse lateral sclerite located cephalad of the saddle and perhaps belonging to embryonic abdominal segment ix ;  the lateral plates of apposite sides may join to form a complete ring ;  probably not homologous with the saddle acus .
in mansoniini larvae ,  the external part of the spiracular apparatus ,  largely comprised of posterolateral spiracular lobe plates ii .
in mansoniini larvae ,  one in a group of two or three spicules belonging to one of two bilaterally paired sets ,  an anterolateral and a posterolateral pair ,  borne on the somewhat membranous cuticle between the apex of posterolateral spiracular lobe plates ii and the inner spiracular teeth ;  capable of being retracted into the apical lumen of the spiracular apparatus when not being used to anchor the structure in plant tissue .
in mansoniini larvae ,  the sclerotized platelike structure closing in the posterior margin of the spiracular apparatus between the posterolateral spiracular lobes ;  probably developed from the membrane connecting the lobes ;  washboardlike in mansonia larvae .
in mansoniini larvae ,  the anterior serrated plate of the spiracular apparatus ;  at least partly homologous with the anterior spiracular lobe of other mosquito larvae .
in culicine ,  toxorhynchitine and certain chaoborid larvae ,  the dorsally - located ,  elongate sclerotized tube  ( incompletely developed in early instars )  of abdominal segment viii ;  bearing the spiracular apparatus at its apex ;  structurally comprising parts of embryonic abdominal segments viii and ix ;  at least partly homologous with the pecten plate and u - shaped band of anopheline larvae .
in male mosquitoes ,  a small lobe or sclerite located basomesally on the gonocoxite ;  usually connected ventrally with its mate ;  possibly homologous with the claspette .
in male mosquitoes ,  a basal lobe on the mesal margin of the dorsal  ( prerotation sense )  surface of the gonocoxite .
in male mosquitoes ,  an apodematous continuation of the proximal mesal dorsal  ( prerotation sense )  corner of the gonocoxite ;  fused or articulated with the basal piece .
in male mosquitoes ,  the most distal area of the ventral  ( prerotation sense )  surface of the gonocoxite ;  an apical ventromesal lobe .
in male mosquitoes ,  the most distal area of the dorsal  ( prerotation sense )  surface of the gonocoxite ;  an apical dorsomesal lobe .
in most female insects ,  the usual sperm storage organ ;  a posteroventral ectodermal caecum of abdominal segment viii located just behind the common oviduct ;  attached to the anterodorsal end of the vagina if the latter is developed ;  usually single but sometimes up to four are present .
any one of the one to four enlarged reservoirs often differentiated at the inner end or ends of the spermathecal ducts ;  usually functional in sperm storage .
in female mosquitoes ,  one of the minute pores locates near the orifice of the spermathecal capsule ;  appearing as small ,  circular ,  clear spots in mounted specimens ;  larger and scattered over most of the surface of the spermathecal capsule in anophelines .
in many female insects ,  the tube between a spermathecal orifice and a spermathecal capsule ;  sometimes one duct or part of one serves more than one spermathecal capsule .
in female mosquitoes ,  a median projection extending into the vagina from its roof and bearing the apertures of the spermathecal ducts and accessory gland duct ;  unpigmented in most genera but strongly sclerotized and pigmented in aedes subgenera neomacleaya and verralina .
in some female mosquitoes ,  one of the outgrowths of the spermathecal eminence ;  usually borne along the cephalic margin ;  of various forms .
a duct of an accessory gland of the insect reproductive system .
in female mosquitoes ,  the usually pigmented part of the accessory gland duct near its opening into the vagina .
an adult head scale ,  either broad or narrow ,  that lies flat or depressed .
an elongate adult head scale ,  narrow at base and gradually widened distally to a forked or toothed apex ,  that stands at least partially erect .
the median longitudinal suture extending ventrally from the postfrontal sutures to a point near the epistomal suture where it may bear arms which diverge laterally ;  may be homologous with the frontal sutures of generalized insects ;  often indistinguishable along the narrow middle part of the frons from the interantennal groove .
a median protuberance occurring posteriorly on the adult head just above the occipital foramen ;  traversed on the longitudinal midline by the coronal suture ;  presumably the dorsal portion of the postocciput .
a thickening located on the upper margin of the occipital foramen of the adult head on either side of the middle line ;  bearing a projection which articulates with the anterior arm of the cervical sclerite .
a subdivision of tergum ii .
a small ventral process on the anterior tentorial arm .
the membrane anterior to the forecoxa ,  between it and the proepisternum ;  sometimes with anteprocoxal scales .
one of the scales occurring in a small group on the anteprocoxal membrane .
in some mosquito larvae ,  a small sclerite often attached posterolaterally to the base of the siphon ;  in mansonia larvae ,  sometimes forming a complete ring .
in its simplest form ,  the aperture or opening into a trachea  ( primary tracheal orifice )  ;  in most insects ,  sunken below the surface of the integument  ( secondary orifice )  thus comprising a chamber ,  the spiracular atrium ,  and the external opening into this chamber ,  the spiracular opening .
single setae may be simple or bear short lateral processes that are not to be considered as branches .
in various insects ,  a pulsatile structure that drives blood into the antennae .
the combined cibarial dome and cibarial armature .
one of the pair of spiracles of an abdominal segment .
the membrane connecting the segments of the body and of the appendages .
in male mosquitoes ,  the complex of structures surrounding the gonopore between the proctiger ,  gonocoxites and sternum ix ;  presumably consisting primitively of the basal pieces ,  parameres ,  prosophallus ,  phallus and opisthophallus .
in most male mosquitoes ,  the central body of the phallosome serving as the intromittent organ .
in most male mosquitoes ,  one of a pair of lateral sclerotizations of the aedeagus .
in some male mosquitoes ,  one of the usually flattened spicules borne at the apex of the aedeagus .
in male mosquitoes ,  the membranous depression or pocket into which the aedeagus is retracted at rest .
in male mosquitoes ,  one of the pair of basal supporting sclerotizations of the phallosome ;  lying within abdominal segment ix and often extending anteriorly into viii ;  articulated with the paramere ,  sometimes articulated with the base of the proctiger and often connected with the apodeme of the mesal margin of the gonocoxite .
in male mosquitoes ,  a lateral sclerite of the phallosome interposed between and articulating with the basal piece and the aedeagus  ( aedeagal sclerite )  .
in general ,  the abdominal structures involved in reproduction .
the membrane occurring between the tergum and sternum of a body segment .
the dorsal sclerotization of a body segment ;  called notum in the thorax .
the tergum of abdominal segment viii .
the tergum of abdominal segment ix .
the ventral sclerotization of a body segment ,  primary sternum ;  the definitive sternum ,  which in the thorax includes the primary sternum ,  the infracoxal sclerotization of the primitive subcoxal plate and sometimes the intersegmental spinasternum .
the sternum of abdominal segment viii .
the sternum of abdominal segment ix .
in insects with poorly defined segmentation behind the genital segments ,  the entire complex formed by the telson and the postgenital segments  ( abdominal segments x and xi )  .
in certain primitive insects ,  a paired lateral sclerite of abdominal segment xi  ( sometimes x )  near the anus ;  sometimes applied in higher insects to sclerites of doubtful homology in a similar position .
one of the pair of appendages of abdominal segment xi ;  often articulating with a more anterior segment ,  particularly when the posterior segments are reduced .
any sclerite forming a part of the cercus .
any seta on a cercus .
in male mosquitoes ,  the transverse sclerotization connecting the aedeagal sclerites nearest the anus .
in male mosquitoes ,  the transverse sclerotization connecting the aedeagal sclerites furthest from the anus .
in arthropods ,  any opening of a meso -  or ectodermal gonoduct .
in most female insects ,  an ectodermal pouch derived from the posteroventral part of abdominal segment viii  ( possibly ix in some insects )  and sometimes adjacent parts of the abdominal venter ;  ending anteriorly at the posterior end of the common oviduct .
the posterior opening of the vagina .
in female mosquitoes ,  the sclerotized and pigmented rim of the roof of the vagina ;  articulating anteriorly with the lower vaginal lip at the hinge ;  the caudal margin is joined to the basoventral margin of the postgenital lobe ;  usually spiculate .
in female mosquitoes ,  a pigmented sclerite of the vaginal roof other than the upper vaginal lip ;  usually attached to the inner median cephalic margin of the upper vaginal lip ;  may be continuous with the lip and distinguishable by position only ;  nonspiculate .
in female mosquitoes ,  the sclerotized and pigmented rim of the floor of the vagina ;  articulated with the upper vaginal lip at the hinge ;  its median area is joined to the insula ;  usually spiculate .
in culicine and toxorhynchitine larvae ,  the usually hollow funnel - shaped ingrowth of the dorsal surface of the spiracular apparatus located between but largely posterior to the postabdominal spiracles ;  receiving the muscles responsible for folding up the spiracular apparatus nad hence closing the spiracles ;  partly homologous with the median plate of anopheline larvae .
in female mosquitoes ,  a pigmented sclerite of the vaginal floor other than the lower vaginal lip ;  usually absent .
in female mosquitoes ,  the point of articulation between the upper and lower vaginal lips .
in some female mosquitoes ,  a median ,  usually enlarged portion of the lower vaginal lip ;  often oriented differently than adjacent parts of the lip and connected with them by weakly sclerotized areas ;  spiculate and usually with setae and tuberculi .
one of the setae borne on the insula of the female genitalia .
in female mosquitoes ,  one or more small ,  rounded ,  pale buttonlike structures situated on the insula ;  occasionally with a minute seta or spicule in the center .
in female mosquitoes ,  the anterior of three paired prominent setae borne on sternum viii ;  usually located near the middle of the anterior margin .
in female mosquitoes ,  the middle of three paired prominent borne on sternum viii ;  position variable but always between seta 1 - s and seta 3 - s .
in female mosquitoes ,  the posterior of three paired prominent setae borne on sternum viii ;  usually located laterally near the posterior margin .
in female mosquitoes ,  a small seta which may be present on either anterolateral corner of tergum viii or sternum viii .
in male mosquitoes ,  a caudally directed lobe of tergum ix ,  usually paired ;  often bearing setae distally .
the tergum of abdominal segment x .
the combined phallosome and proctiger .
in female mosquitoes ,  the weakly to moderately sclerotized median caudal lobe below the anus and above the upper vaginal lip ;  setose and with or without an apical median indentation .
in male mosquitoes ,  the dorsal  ( prerotation sense )  surface of the gonocoxite .
in female mosquitoes ,  the usually cephalad - directed fold of the intersegmental membrane between the posterior margin of sternum viii and the lower vaginal lip ;  the membrane carries the insula on its posterior median area .
in female mosquitoes ,  an apodeme arising on the midline at the base of the ventral surface of the postgenital lobe .
in male mosquitoes ,  a basal lobe on the mesal margin of the ventral  ( prerotation sense )  surface of the gonocoxite .
in male mosquitoes ,  an apodematous basal continuation of the external or lateral sclerotization of the gonocoxite .
in male mosquitoes ,  the distance between the tergum ix lobes .
in male mosquitoes ,  applied to the floor of the space between the base of the gonocoxite and the proctiger ;  variously chitinized and in varying degrees of attachment with the gonocoxite ,  basal piece ,  paramere ,  aedeagus or proctiger .
in male anophelinae ,  one of the elongate leafletlike structures usually occurring at the apex of the aedeagus .
the genitalia of the adult male mosquito .
the genitalia of the adult female mosquito .
the first abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the second abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the ninth abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the fourth abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the eighth abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the sixth abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the seventh abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the fifth abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the third abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the tenth abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
in some uranotaenia larvae ,  a short or elongate filamentous process with an enlarged base borne extremelly on the posterolateral margin of each postabdominal spiracle .
the sternum of abdominal segment i .
the tergum of abdominal segment i .
the sternum of abdominal segment ii .
the tergum of abdominal segment ii .
the sternum of abdominal segment iii .
the tergum of abdominal segment iii .
the sternum of abdominal segment iv .
the tergum of abdominal segment iv .
one of five rounded flaplike projections of the spiracular apparatus ;  highly modified in mansoniini larvae .
the sternum of abdominal segment v .
the tergum of abdominal segment v .
the sternum of abdominal segment vi .
the tergum of abdominal segment vi .
the sternum of abdominal segment vii .
the tergum of abdominal segment vii .
the sternum of abdominal segment x .
the eleventh abdominal segment of the insect abdomen .
the first life stage of an insect .
the end of the egg bearing the micropyle ;  adjacent to the head of the embryo .
the surface of the egg opposite the dorsum of the embryo .
the extremity of the egg opposite the end bearing the micropyle ;  opposed to the hindmost part of the embryo .
the surface of the egg opposite the venter of the embryo .
in male mosquitoes ,  applied to the connecting ventromesal largely - membranous projections of the gonocoxites .
the usually small anterior lidlike part of the chorion which may completely or incompletely separate from the posterior part following oblique spiral or transverse dehiscence .
in insect eggs ,  one or more minute openings in the chorion through which spermatozoa enter .
the outer chorion secreted between the anterior end of the egg and the nurse cells ;  comprising the micropylar disc and micropylar collar .
in many mosquito eggs ,  a thin ,  thick or raised area of outer chorion surrounding the micropyle ;  often encircled by a micropylar collar .
in many mosquito eggs ,  the prominent ,  usually thickened and darkened annular wall or ridge encircling the micropylar disc .
an undefined part of the surface of an egg in the vicinity of the micropyle .
in many anopheline eggs ,  the tuberculate outer chorion of the ventral surface which normally is not covered by water and is completely or incompletely enclosed by the frill ;  sometimes divided so that in effect there are two decks ,  one anterior and one posterior .
in anopheline eggs ,  one of the outer chorionic tubercles which ornament the deck ;  a variable number of large deck tubercles with notched or convoluted margins located at each end of the deck are referred to as loded tubercles .
in anopheline eggs ,  one of the variable number of large deck tubercles with notched margins that are usually located at the anterior and posterior ends of the deck .
in anopheline eggs ,  the area of the ventral surface between the two parts of a divided deck .
the anatomical passage through the chorion which cavity is defined as the micropyle .
the outer covering or cell of the insect egg secreted by the follicular epithelium and consisting of one or more layers .
the innermost of usually two layers of chorion secreted by the follicular epithelium ;  with a smooth outer surface in anophelines ,  toxorhynchitines and many culicines ;  sculptured in most aedines .
the outermost of usually two layers of chorion secreted by the follicular epithelium ;  always sculptured and usually formed into a corolla and / or micropylar collar around a micropyle at the anterior end of an egg .
in many anopheline eggs and eggs of the genera hodgesia and mimomyia ,  a narrow ,  usually ribbed ,  ridgelike formation of the outer chorion located on or near the ventral surface and commonly enclosing an area termed the  \ "deck \ " .
in anopheline eggs where the frill is incomplete in the middle of the ventral surface ,  the right and left sides of both its anterior and posterior parts of an have a free fraplike terminus ,  the tag .
in many mosquito eggs ,  primarily those of aedine species ,  the pattern of impressed and raised markings of the inner chorion ;  usually consisting of cells bounded by a ridgelike reticulum .
in many mosquito eggs ,  mainly those of aedine species ,  an area of the inner chorion bounded by elements of the inner chorionic reticulum ;  differing in shape in different areas of the surface .
in many mosquito eggs ,  particularly those of aedine species ,  a feature of the inner chorionic sculpture consisting of an interconnected system of ridges which separates adjacent inner chorionic cells ;  corresponding exactly with the boundaries of the follicular epithelial cells which secrete the chorion .
first used to designate those parts of the inner chorionic reticulum which enclose a cell ,  but included here are those terms which have been applied to similar parts of the outer chorionic reticulum .
in many mosquito eggs ,  a piece of inner chorion which obstructs or fills in the micropyle .
in certain culex and psorophora eggs ,  perhaps others ,  a dome or lobe of inner chorion lying directly under the micropylar disc ;  pierced at its center by the micropyle .
the pattern of impressed and raised markings of the outer chorion ;  often consisting of cells bounded by a reticulum .
in many mosquito eggs ,  a feature of the outer chorionic sculpture consisting of an interconnected system of ridges and / or tubercles ,  or an interrelated chain of unconnected tubercles ,  which separates adjacent outer chorionic cells ;  corresponding exactly with the boundaries of the follicular epithelial cells which secrete the chorion .
in many mosquito eggs ,  an area of the outer chorion bounded by elements of the outer chorionic reticulum ;  differing in shape and relief in different areas of the surface .
a small rounded or irregularly - shaped prominence of the outer chorion .
in certain mosquito eggs ,  particularly those of the genera trichoprosopon ,  hodgesia and uranotaenia ,  the set - off posterior part of the outer chorion ,  the anterior part being relatively difficult to observe ,  unadorned or absent .
in anopheline eggs ,  a narrow , longitudinal part of the outer chorion containing hollow space and bearing a series of transverse ridges on its outer wall ;  multiple floats occur in chagasia eggs otherwise two is the usual number ,  one on each side and at varying distances from the ventral midline .
in anopheline eggs ,  one of the raised sections of a float ;  appearing membranous in slide preparations as compared to the grooves on each side .
in float - bearing anopheline eggs ,  the flattened terminal compartment  ( float ridge )  at each end of the float .
a component of the inner chorion consisting of an inner chorionic cell and the elements of the reticulum which enclose it .
the system of cells belonging to the outer chorion ;  can also be applied to the inner chorionic system .
the splitting of the chorion of the insect egg in the emergence of the nymph or larva .
the splitting of the chorion of an egg in a plane perpendicular to the longitudinal axis .
the splitting of the chorion in the direction of the long axis of the egg .
the transverse splitting of an egg in constantly changing planes  ( helical )  .
the splitting of the chorion in a plane forming an acute angle to the longitudinal axis of the egg .
a strong subapical spine arising mesally on the gonocoxite of male anopheles .
the lateral part of abdominal tergum i when more or less distinctly separated from the median dorsal part ;  usually not visible from above .
a subdivision of tergum i .
the smallest cells encountered in the hemolymph ,  displaying a spherical profile with 5 - 8 um in diameter .
the sclerotized skull - like part of the head .
the anterior section  ( tagma )  of the insect body bearing the compound eyes ,  antennae and mouthparts ;  separated from the thorax by the cervix .
in many immature insects ,  the cranial area bounded laterally by the frontal ecdysial lines and apically by an imaginary line between the most apical parts of the frontal ecdysial lines ;  there is no necessary homology between the cranial area included in the dorsal apotome of different insects .
in many immature arthropods ,  any part of the dorsal ecdysial line extending onto the cranium ;  usually made up of an unpaired coronal ecdysial line and paired frontal ecdysial lines .
in many immature arthropods ,  one of the arms of the epicranial ecdysial line ;  course varying widely among insects ;  often not homologous between different insects .
the median unpaired posterior part of the epicranial ecdysial line ;  considered absent if the paired frontal ecdysial lines reach the posterior cranial margin separately .
the cranial inflection marked externally by the epistomal suture .
the suture marking the boundary between the frons and clypeus ;  terminating laterally in the anterior tentorial pits ;  often incomplete .
in insects ,  the upper and lateral parts of the cranium ,  indefinitely delimited laterally from the hypocranium when the latter is formed ;  often defined in other ways ,  for example ,  as the entire cranium except the clypeus ,  eyes ,  postmentum and gula .
the larval cranium exclusive of the dorsal apotome .
in many immature insects ,  any ecdysial line extending anteriad from the posteroventral margin of the cranium .
in insects with cranial parts on the ventral aspect of the head ,  the part of the cranium facing ventrad ;  indefinitely delimited laterally and often not homologous among different insects .
in mosquito larvae and certain other prognathous insects ,  a sclerite formed by the fusion of the gula and the submentum .
in many insects ,  the part of the postmentum behind the submentomental suture .
in some insects ,  the sclerotized part of the gular area .
in most insects ,  the midventral rear part of the head and midventral part of the cervix ;  bounded anteriorly by a pregular suture  ( if present )  or by an imaginary line between the front edges of the posterior tentorial pits ,  laterally by the gular suture  ( if present )  and a line projected posteriad from it or  ( if the gular suture is absent )  by a line projected posteriad from the back edge of the posterior tentorial pit ,  and posteriorly by the prosternum ;  may consist entirely of gular membrane or ,  especially in prognathous insects ,  of membrane and one or more sclerites  ( the gula )  .
the unsclerotized part of the gular area .
in most immature insects ,  the lateral and ventral areas of the cranium lateral to the epicranial ecdysial lines ,  excluding any ventral apotomes and the submentum or labiogula if either can be distinguished from the adjacent cranial parts .
in many endopterygotous larvae ,  any one of the one to several paired lateral ocelluslike light - perceptive organs of the lateralia ;  composed of a few large optic elements unlike the ommatidia of compound eyes .
a light - perceptive organ consisting of an aggregation of optic elements  ( ommatidia )  generally located on each side of the head .
one of the paired anterior appendicular organs of the insect head .
the third segment of the antenna .
the second or subbasal segment of the antenna .
the first or basal segment of the antenna .
the thickened rim around the outer margin of the antennal socket ;  presumably not an antennaria or antennal sclerite .
a small puncture located dorsally near the base of the antenna .
the membranous area of the head into which the base of the antenna is set .
the seta occurring on the larval body .
the dorsal seta borne proximal to the other antennal setae ,  except in toxorhynchites in which it arises slightly distal to the setae 2 -  and 3 - a .
the more lateral seta of setae 18 -  and 19 - c ;  when only one of these is present ,  it is interpreted as being 18 - c .
the seta situated on the labiogula ,  usually anteriorly ;  the only seta arising on this cranial area .
the subapical seta on the mesoventral surface between the base of seta 1 - a and the antennal apex ,  except in toxorhynchites as previously noted  ( see seta 1 - a )  ;  sometimes as in mansoniini arising well before the apex ,  or arising apically as in anophelinae ;  in anophelinae and some uranotaeniini ,  flattened and bladelike ;  arises dorsoventral in some taxa due to an apparent antennal rotation .
two small setae borne ventrolaterally on the cervix at the level of the ventromedian cervical sclerite .
the subapical seta borne on the lateroventral surface of the antenna ;  paired with seta 2 - a ;  in some taxa it may occur with seta 2 - a on the mesal surface where it is then ventral to 2 - a ;  flattened and bladelike in anophelinae and some uranotaeniini .
a maximum of 19 pairs of setae are known to occur on the fourth stage larval cranium .
the seta borne on the upper median margin of the antennal apex ;  seemingly lateral in anophelinae but actually occurring in the same relative position ,  the distal part of the antenna having rotated on its axis sufficiently to bring the ventral surface mesad and even somewhat dorsad .
in fourth stage larvae ,  particular seta in the set of six which occur on the antenna ,  individually numbered by their approximate position from the base to apex and bearing the hyphenated suffix  \ "a \ " .
a peglike seta borne at the center of the antennal apex ,  slightly preapical in some culicines ;  distinctive in being opaque basally and hyaline distally ,  the two parts being sharply demarcated .
the seta borne on the dorsolateral margin of the antennal apex ;  not as sharply tapered as setae 2 -  ,  3 -  and 4 - a ;  usually with a transverse transparent part near its base .
the two pairs of setae routinely occurring on the median labral plate ;  in toxorhynchites ,  setae 3 -  and 4 - c also appear to be located on the median labral plate .
the lateral seta on the median labral plate and the most anterolateral seta of the cranium ;  minute ,  usually ventral in position ;  apparently absent in some taxa .
the mesal seta on the median labral plate and the most anteromesal seta of the cranium ;  usually single ,  often spiniform .
the series of setae  ( maximally consisting of seven pairs )  occurring on the dorsal apotome ;  in toxorhynchites setae 3 -  and 4 - c are situated on the median labral plate .
the most anteromesal seta of the dorsal apotome ,  just posterior to the median labral plate ;  interpreted as being absent when only one of the seven pairs of setae of this series is missing ;  usually well developed in anophelines ;  absent in most culicines and toxorhynchitines .
the most anterolateral seta of the dorsal apotome ,  just posterior to the median labral plate ;  well developed in anophelines ;  in culicines ,  sometimes arising from underside the head ;  in sabethini and toxorhynchites ,  associated with seta 0 - c on the median labral plate ;  interpreted as being absent along with seta 2 - c when two of the seven pairs of this series are missing .
generally the most anterior and / or anteromesal seta in the series of setae 4 -  to 8 - c on the dorsal apotome ;  in toxorhynchites ,  occurring on the median labral plate where it is interpreted as being the most mesal seta ;  occasionally lateral to seta 5 - c ,  e .g . ,  in aedes  ( huaedes )  .
the most posteromesal setae 4 -  to 8 - c .
the seta located anterior and / or lateral to seta 5 - c .
the most anterolateral of setae 4 -  to 8 - c .
usually the most posterior  ( always the most posterolateral )  of setae 4 -  to 8 - c ;  in toxorhynchites ,  indistinguishably aligned with setae 5 -  ,  6 -  and 7 - c .
the series of six setae occurring on the lateralia .
the seta situated immediately lateral to the frontal ecdysial line ,  usually more or less opposite seta 8 - c ;  its alveolus is visible from the dorsal aspect .
the seta situated lateroventral to seta 9 - c and near the stemma ;  its alveolus is usually visible from the dorsal aspect .
the seta located dorsolaterally near the base of the antenna ;  may sometimes arise sufficiently dorsad that its alveolus is visible from above .
the seta  ( with seta 13 - c )  borne posterior and ventral to seta 11 - c and ventral to the compound eye ;  usually situated posterior to seta 13 - c ,  when linearly arranged with 13 - c it is interpreted as being the more mesal seta .
the seta  ( with seta 12 - c )  borne posterior to seta 11 - c and ventral to the compound eye ;  usually anterior to seta 12 - c ,  when linearly arranged with 12 - c it is interpreted as being the more lateral seta .
the seta situated immediately posterior to the base of the maxilla ;  the most mesoventral seta of the lateralia .
in certain culex larvae ,  the two small setae borne on the lateralia much closer to the postocciput than any other cranial setae .
the more distant from the postocciput of setae 16 -  and 17 - c ;  if only one of these setae is present ,  it is interpreted as being 16 - c .
the closer to the postocciput of setae 16 -  and 17 - c ;  if only one of these setae is present ,  17 - c is regarded as being absent .
the more ventral or anterior seta of setae 18 -  and 19 - c ;  when only one of these is present ,  19 - c is regarded as being absent .
a total of 29 setae  ( or multiple setae )  are known to occur on the areas and appendages about the mouth .
a small seta borne laterally on the torma .
a small seta borne on the posttorma .
either of two peglike setae situated on the labropalatum between the midpalatal brushes ;  the anterior one is designated seta 3a - lp and the posterior one as seta 3b - lp .
either of two small peglike setae occurring at the lateral margin of the mouth near the cibarial bar ;  the more lateral one is designated seta 1a - mo and the more mesal one as 1b - mo .
in many culicine larvae ,  a long curved spiniform seta arising a short distance lateral to ventral tooth - 4 of the mandible and projecting mesally .
any seta borne in the sella of the mandible ;  there are usually four prominent setae ,  which proceeding dorsoventrally are designated setae 2a -  through 2d - mn ,  and a variable number of fine setae ,  setae 2e - mn ,  which arise mesal to the bases of the former .
the most dorsal seta borne in the sella of the mandible ;  usually the longest of the 2 - mn setae .
a large seta borne in the sella of the mandible immediately adjacent to seta 2a - mn .
a large seta borne in the sella of the mandible immediately adjacent to seta 2a - mn .
the most ventral seta borne in the sella of the mandible ;  often short ,  transparent and saw - shaped .
any one of a variable number of fine setae arising mesal to the bases of the much larger setae 2a -  through 2d - mn in the sella of the mandible .
in anopheline and some aedes larvae ,  perhaps other culicines as well ,  a seta  ( or each of two setae )  borne on the mandible ventrally near the mandibular spiculose area .
known only in a few culicine larvae ,  a small peglike seta located at the base of the mandibular lobe .
a usually paired peglike seta borne on the dorsal surface of the maxillary body ,  or galeastipes when distinguishable ;  usually located near the dorsal maxillary suture but sometimes borne apically  ( extremely so in uranotaenia larvae )  .
a seta borne on the mesodorsal surface of the maxillary body ,  or the laciniastipes when distinguishable ;  usually located between laciniarastra 2 and 3 .
a seta borne dorsally on the maxillary body ,  or the galeastipes when distinguishable ;  occurring near the distolateral margin in most culicines .
a seta borne ventrally on the maxillary body ,  or the galeastipes when distinguishable ;  occurring near the distolateral margin in most culicines .
a seta occurring distomesally on the maxillary body ,  or the galeastipes when distinguishable ,  at the base of the maxillary brush ;  almost always located at the apex of the dorsal maxillary suture .
a prominent seta borne on the cardo or the anterior margin of the lateralia at the base of the maxilla .
in anopheline and mimomyia larvae ,  a seta borne laterally on the maxillary palpus ;  prominent and dendritic in anophelines .
the series of setae  ( maximum of seven )  located at the apex of the maxillary palpus .
the more ventral  ( in culicines and toxorhynchitines )  or more lateral  ( in anophelines )  of a pair of usually pedicel - borne peglike setae located dorsolaterally at the apex of the maxillary palpus .
the more dorsal  ( in culicines and toxorhynchitines )  or the more mesal  ( in anophelines )  of a pair of usually pedicel - borne peglike setae located dorsolaterally at the apex of the maxillary palpus .
in anopheline larvae ,  the most dorsal of three usually foliform setae located mesally at the apex of the maxillary palpus .
in anopheline larvae ,  the middle of the three usually foliform setae located at the apex of the maxillary palpus .
in anopheline larvae ,  the most ventral of the three usually foliform setae located at the apex of the maxillary palpus .
in anopheline larvae ,  a peglike seta located lateroventrally at the apex .
in anopheline larvae ,  a flask -  or conelike seta located laterally at the apex .
in many culicine larvae ,  a tiny pincushion or peglike seta contained in a stalk ,  sack or chamber located centrally at the apex of the maxillary palpus ;  believed to represent the fused setae 10 -  and 11 - mx of anophelines .
the paired ,  usually peglike seta occurring on the premental part of the labiohypopharynx between the salivary meatus and the lateral premental teeth ;  in anopheline larvae ,  quite small and sometimes difficult to distinguish from the denticles of the premental malae .
the series of setae occurring on the vestigial labial palpus ;  four occur in culicines and toxorhynchitines and five in anophelines .
the dorsalmost peglike seta occurring on each labial palpus .
the peglike seta located immediately ventral to seta 2 - lh on each labial palpus .
a peglike seta located immediately dorsal to seta 5 - lh on each labial palpus .
the ventralmost peglike seta located on each labial palpus .
in anopheline larvae ,  in usually foliform or bladelike seta arising from each labial palpus beside the ligula .
in fourth stage larvae ,  maxima of the 15 pairs of setae are known on the prothorax ,  14 on the mesothorax and 13 on the metathorax .
it is formed by a slight involution of the oesophagus into the midgut .
the dorsal seta located in the third position in the circumferential series of mesothoracic setae ;  nearly always closely associated with setae1 and 2 on the prothorax ;  may be anterior to and even widely separated from these setae on the meso -  and metathorax of some taxa ;  in cases where setae 3 and 4 of the latter two setae become more or less longitudinally aligned ,  the anterior seta is interpreted as being seta 3 .
the dorsal seta located in the second position in the circumferential series of mesothoracic setae ;  in some taxa ,  seta 2 may be posterior to seta 3 .
the seta borne nearest the dorsal midline of the metathorax ;  the positions of the setae 1 -  ,  2 -  and 3 - p are usually close - set in a series ,  1 - p is interpreted as having the most posterior and / or mesal position of the three .
the dorsal seta usually arising fourth from the dorsal midline ;  on the mesothorax of some anophelines it is posterior or posterolateral to seta 5 - m and thus fifth from the dorsal midline ;  in cases where setae 3 and 4 of the meso -  and metathorax become more or less longitudinally aligned ,  the posterior seta is interpreted as being seta 4 .
the dorsolateral seta arising fifth from the dorsal midline ;  if occurring more or less longitudinally aligned with either seta 5 or seta 6 ,  it is interpreted as being more anterior .
the dorsolateral seta arising sixth from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of mesothoracic setae ;  if more or less longitudinally aligned with either seta 5 or seta 7 ,  it is interpreted as being the most posterior .
the dorsolateral seta arising seventh from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of mesothoracic setae ,  except that if seta 6 and 7 are nearly equidistant from the dorsal midline ,  the more anterior seta is interpreted as seta 7 even if slightly more mesal .
the lateroventral seta arising eighth from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of mesothoracic setae .
near its posterior end the foregut is extended into three diverticula ,  one ventral and two dorsal ,  the narrow openings to which are situated just anterior to the esophageal invagination .
the small dorsal diverticulla occupy a space at the anterior end of the thorax between the indirect flight muscles .
the large diverticulum is consisted of the crop and the duct and it is situated medially .
it is situated between the midgut and the ventral nerve cord .
the duct joins the crop with the oesophagus of the alimentary canal .
the lateroventral or ventral prothoracic seta borne anterior  ( in anophelines )  or mesal  ( in many sabethines )  to the tubercle bearing setae 9 -  to 12 - p ;  absent in most culicines .
the lateroventral or ventral mesothoracic seta associated with the tubercle - borne setae 9 -  to 12 - m .
the metathoracic seta located closest to the ventral midline .
the seta located closest to the ventral midline on the mesothorax ;  on the prothorax , sometimes aligned longitudinally with seta 13 - p ;  absent from the metathorax .
in fourth stage larvae ,  a maximum of 12 pairs of setae are found on abdominal segment i ,  15 pairs on abdominal segments ii through vii ,  seven pairs on abdominal segment viii ,  13 pairs on the siphon  ( pecten plate in anophelines )  and spiracular apparatus  ( derived from embryonic abdominal segments viii and ix )  ,  and four pairs on abdominal segment x .
in fourth stage larvae ,  a maximum of 12 pairs of setae are found on abdominal segment i ,  with setae 0 ,  8 and 14 presumed to be those which are absent .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segments ii to vii ;  inconspicuous except in some sabethines where it may be prominent and stellate ;  an apparent homolog of this seta occurs on abdominal segment viii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the dorsal seta nearest both the posterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment i ;  seta 3 - vi and sometimes seta 2 - vi may be nearer in some taxa  ( in such cases these setae can be identified through a process of elimination )  ;  usually well developed ,  may be stellate or palmate in some taxa .
the dorsal seta nearest  ( except for the minute seta 0 )  to both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment i ;  occasionally so atypically placed as to be identifiable only through a process of elimination ,  e .g . ,  in aedes  ( alanstonea )  .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 2 on abdominal segment i ,  variable in position on succeeding segments but determinable based on branching ,  development and relative position ,  usually mesal to seta 4 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segments ii to v where it is associated with seta 5 ;  on abdominal segment vi it arises in the vicinity of seta 1 in some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segment i ,  variable in position on succeeding segments ,  usually lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or mesal to seta 3 on abdominal segments ii to v ,  usually located anterior and mesal to seta 5  ( more often lateral on vii )  ;  stellate some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segment i ,  its position relative to seta 4 is variable on succeeding segments but it is identifiable because of its very characteristic dorsal position on the posterolateral angle of the segment ,  usually proximal and dorsal to seta 6 .
the lateral seta borne regularly on the prominent lateral bulge about midway between the dorsal and ventral longitudinal midlines on abdominal segment i ;  well developed on abdominal segments i and ii ,  commonly somewhat less well - developed on iii to vi ,  still smaller on vii .
the lateral seta either directly ventral or slightly posteroventral to seta 6 on abdominal segments i and ii ;  when reduced ,  as is often the case on abdominal segments iii to vii ,  it can be identified by its position relative to seta 6 ;  stellate in some taxa .
any seta occurring on a midcoxa .
the lateral seta associated anteriorly ,  posteriorly or ventrally with seta 7 on abdominal segment i ;  stellate in some taxa .
the seta with setae 11 ,  12 and 13 on abdominal segment i comprising a transverse median or somewhat posterior group of ventral setae so diversely positioned and developed down the line of segments as frequently to obscure the recognition of serial homologies .
seta 11 is stellate in some sabethines ,  usually shorter than seta 10 and ,  on abdominal segment ii ,  is always situated anterior and typically ventral to seta 10 ;  its relationship with seta 10 regarding appearance and relative position closely approximate that found on the pupa .
in male mosquitoes ,  the ventral  ( prerotation sense )  surface of the gonocoxite .
one of the scales occurring in a rather indistinct row located laterad of the dorsocentral area of the scutum ;  usually reaching the posterior margin of the scutum before the lateral lobes of the scutellum .
one of the scales occurring in a small group on the intersegmental membrane immediately behind the metasternum .
in many mosquito eggs ,  notably those of the genera culex ,  toxorhynchites and culliseta ,  a delicate frill - like collar surrounding the micropyle ;  often readily detachable and frequently lost ;  associated with a micropylar collar in some culex eggs .
seta 12 is interpreted as being absent when only three in group of setae 10 to 13 are present on abdominal segment i .
seta 13 is the nearest of the group to the ventral longitudinal midline of abdominal segment ii ;  in many taxa ,  it is the most developed  ( sometimes even stellate )  of the four grouped ventral setae on at least the more posterior segments .
the ventral seta of abdominal segment i located close to the longitudinal midline far forward on the intersegmental membrane ;  minute except in some sabethines ;  typically absent from abdominal segments i and ii ;  an apparent homolog is present on abdominal segment viii .
of the seven pairs of setae which occur on this segment ,  the minute setae 0 and 14 are treated as homologs of those similarly designated on abdominal segment i to vii .
the minute seta borne anteriorly on the dorsal surface of abdominal segment viii in the same relative position as the corresponding seta on the preceding segments .
usually the most dorsal seta borne on abdominal segment viii ;  often almost directly anterior to seta 2 - viii ;  typically branched .
the second seta in the set of setae 1 -  to 5 - viii ; located anteroventral to seta 1 - viii in anophelines ;  located ventral ,  posteroventral or posterior to 1 - viii in culicines and toxorhynchitines ,  often unbranched in these taxa .
the middle seta in the set of setae 1 -  to 5 - viii ;  usually conspicuously branched and typically the most posterior in the set .
the seta located ventral to seta 3 - viii in the set of setae 1 -  to 5 - viii ;  usually branched .
the most ventral of the conspicuous setae of abdominal segment viii ;  usually branched .
the minute ventral seta of abdominal segment viii located anteriorly on the intersegmental membrane in the same relative position as the corresponding seta on the preceding segments .
the siphon  ( pecten plate in anophelines )  and spiracular apparatus possess 13 pairs of setae of uniform occurrence .
in anopheline larvae ,  the seta closely associated with and usually located posterior to the pecten below the posterolateral spiracular lobe ;  in other mosquito larvae ,  borne laterally or ventrally on the siphon ;  in species where more than one seta is borne in a similar position on the siphon ,  they are designed as seta 1a - s ,  seta 1b - s ,  etc .
in anopheline larvae ,  the seta borne on the pecten plate ;  in other mosquito larvae ,  borne on the dorsal preapical area of the siphon or on the membrane just beyond its apex  ( in mansoniini and some sabethini )  .
respectively ,  the minute anterior ,  middle and posterior close - set setae borne laterally on the unpaired anterior spiracular lobe ;  seta 3 - s is usually represented by a puncture .
respectively ,  the proximal and distal setae of the paired anterolateral spiracular lobe .
the proximal seta borne on the outer seta  ( when the postabdominal spiracles are closed )  on the paired posterolateral spiracular lobe .
the distal area borne preapically on the surface  ( when the postabdominal spiracles are closed )  of the paired posterolateral spiracular lobe .
the seta borne basally on the posterior margin of the inner surface  ( when the postabdominal spiracles are closed )  of the paired posterolateral spiracular lobe .
the more proximal of the two setae borne apically on the inner surface  ( when the postabdominal spiracles are closed )  of the paired posterolateral spiracular lobe .
the more distal of the two setae borne apically on the inner surface  ( when the postabdominal spiracles are closed )  of the paired posterolateral spiracular lobe .
the seta borne medially on the anterior margin of the inner surface  ( when the postabdominal spiracles are closed )  of the paired posterolateral spiracular lobe .
four pairs of setae are of uniform occurrence on this segment .
the lateral seta of abdominal segment x borne on the saddle ,  usually near the posterior margin .
the seta located closest to the dorsal longitudinal midline of abdominal segment x and slightly posterior to the saddle ;  along with seta 3 - x ,  referred to as the dorsal brush .
the seta borne on abdominal segment x immediately lateral to seta 2 - x ;  along with seta 2 - x ,  referred to as the dorsal brush .
any seta of the ventral brush ,  the variable number of paired or unpaired setae arising from the ventral longitudinal midline of abdominal segment x ;  the most anterior seta is designated as seta 4a - x ,  the next posterior one as 4b - x ,  etc .
the paired accessory setae located on a side of abdominal segment x on the membranous part or on the saddle ,  seta x - x being the most proximal .
the anterolateral antenna - bearing lobe of the cranium ;  a part of the ocular lobe of certain authors .
an attached or detached pivot on the sclerotized rim of the antennal socket on which the antenna articulates .
the inner supporting ridge of the subantennal suture .
in insects ,  applied to certain sutures ventral to the antennal socket ;  probably used for several sutures not all homologous with each other .
in immature arthropods ,  any preformed line of weakness of the cuticle involved in opening or folding at ecdysis .
in arthropods ,  any dorsal preformed line of weakness along which the cuticle splits  ( usually )  or bends during ecdysis .
in arthropods ,  any ventral preformed line of weakness along which the cuticle splits  ( usually )  or bends during ecdysis .
the set of the appendages on larval head that is used in feeding .
the fused third or posterior pair of gnathal appendages ;  divided into a distal prelabium ,  comprised of the prementum ,  ligula and labial palpi ,  and a proximal postlabium  ( postmentum )  which may be subdivided by a transverse suture into a distal mentum and a proximal submentum .
the distal part of the labium comprising the prementum ,  ligula and labial palpi .
the stipital part of the labium .
the unjoined or fused proximal lobes  ( glossae or paraglossae )  of the labium .
one of the pair of teleopodites of the insect labium .
the basal part of the labium proximal to the prelabium ;  comprised of a single sclerite ,  postmentum ,  or divided by a suture into a distal part ,  mentum ,  and a proximal part ,  submentum .
the sclerite or sclerites collectively on the postlabium .
in many insects ,  the part of the postmentum distal to the submentomental suture .
the puncture which occurs medially on the dorsolateral area of abdominal segment v ;  also present in mosquito pupae .
in many insects ,  the transverse suture dividing the postmentum into a distal part ,  the mentum ,  and a proximal part ,  the submentum ;  often weak or absent ;  probably not homologous among all insects said to have it .
one of the second pair of gnathal appendages .
the basal subdivision of the maxilla .
the distal subdivision of the maxilla bearing the galea ,  lacinia and maxillary palpus .
the principal part of the maxilla consisting of the fused lacinia ,  galea and mesal part of the stipes ;  dorsal and ventral maxillary sutures demarcate the lacinia -  and galeastipes in a number of culicine larvae .
recognizable in mosquito larvae ,  mostly culicines as the mesal half of the maxillary body ;  representing the fused stipes and lacinia which cannot be separately distinguished ;  bearing the laciniarastra and seta 2 - mx mesodorsally ;  the dorsal and ventral maxillary sutures ,  when present ,  serve as boundaries between the laciniastipes and galeastipes .
recognizable in many mosquito larvae ,  mostly culicines ,  as the lateral half of the maxillary body ;  representing the fused stipes and galea which are partly separated in anophelines and dixids ;  usually bearing the maxillary brush and setae 1 -  ,  3 -  ,  4 -  and 5 - mx ,  the maxillary palpus is articulated laterally at its base ;  the dorsal and ventral maxillary sutures ,  when present ,  separate it from the laciniastipes .
in mosquito and dixid larvae ,  a collection of variously - developed spicules arising distally from the maxillary body ,  or the galeastipes when distinguishable .
in mosquito and dixid larvae ,  a grouping or covering of fine filaments located lateral to the dorsal maxillary suture on the membranous dorsal surface of the maxillary body ,  or the galeastipes when distinguishable ;  covering most of the dorsal surface in anophelines and dixids .
the inner endite lobe of the maxilla .
a row of setae or spicules borne on the inner margin of the lacinia .
in mosquito and dixid larvae ,  the most mesal of the laciniarastra borne on the maxillary body ,  or the laciniastipes when distinguishable ;  often consisting of setiforms ,  spinules or blades but varying widely in form .
in mosquito and dixid larvae ,  a row of spicules borne between laciniarastra 1 and 3 on the mesodorsal surface of the maxillary body ,  or the laciniastipes when distinguishable ;  sometimes consisting of divided filaments and extending to a point near the maxillary brush .
in mosquito and dixid larvae ,  the most lateral of the laciniarastra borne on the mesodorsal surface of the maxillary body ,  or the laciniastipes when distinguishable ;  usually consisting of filaments .
the outer endite lobe of the maxilla .
one of the variously - developed spicules of the maxillary brush ;  typically lamellate blades in anopheline larvae .
the variably developed seam occurring on the dorsal surface of the maxillary body ;  extending from the maxillary brush to the base of the maxillary body where it is continuous with the stipital arm ;  serving as a boundary between the laciniastipes and galeastipes .
in some culicine larvae ,  a groove or furrow on the ventral surface of the maxillary body between the galea -  and laciniastipes ;  extending from a point mesal to the maxillary brush to the basal notch ;  often appearing only as line of slightly more heavily sclerotized cuticle .
the apodematous ridge located mesally at the base of the maxillary body ,  or the laciniastipes when distinguishable ;  continuous with the dorsal maxillary suture ;  in culicines ,  usually providing attachment for the stipital adductor muscle and bearing the parartis ventrally ;  in anophelines ,  articulating with the rod of parartis .
spherulocytes shows an oval cell profile with average diameter of 8 - 10 um ,  displaying a round nucleus and a condensed chromatin with a large nucleolus .
the anterior section  ( tagma )  of the insect body bearing the compound eyes ,  antennae and mouthparts ;  separated from the thorax by the cervix .
the third ,  posterior division  ( tagma )  of the insect body .
the second or intermediate division  ( tagma )  of the insect body ;  bearing the true legs and wings ;  comprised of the pro -  ,  meso -  and metathoracic segments .
the membrane connecting the segments of the pupal abdomen and of the appendages .
one of the annular subdivisions of the insect abdomen .
the ninth annular subdivision of the insect abdomen .
the first abdominal segment of mosquito pupa .
the third abdominal segment of mosquito pupa .
the tergum of abdominal segment iii .
the puncture which occurs medially on the dorsolateral area of the tergum of abdominal segment iii  ( occurring anomalously on ii )  ;  associated with setae 4 -  5 -  and 6 - iii - v ;  also present in mosquito larvae .
the fourth abdominal segment of mosquito pupa .
the tergum of abdominal segment iv .
the fifth abdominal segment of mosquito pupa .
the tergum of abdominal segment v .
the sixth abdominal segment of mosquito pupa .
the tergum of abdominal segment vi .
the seventh abdominal segment of mosquito pupa .
a closed ,  non - functional spiracle .
the eighth abdominal segment of mosquito pupa .
the tergum of abdominal segment viii .
the tergum of abdominal segment vii .
the tergum of abdominal segment ix .
the transverse lobe borne caudal to tergum viii and dorsal to the proctiger ;  representing the dorsum of abdominal segment ix and at least a small part of abdominal segment viii .
the movable or immovable paired appendage of abdominal segment ix ;  appearing to arise from the caudolateral part of abdominal segment viii .
the margin from the apex of the midrib ,  or its projection ,  to the base along the inner or mesal part of the paddle .
the part of the paddle mesad of the midrib .
the margin from the apex of the midrib ,  or its projection ,  to the base along the outer or lateral part of the paddle .
the part of the paddle laterad of the midrib .
the serrations ,  aciculae and / or filaments occurring along the inner and outer margins of the paddle .
the serrations of the paddle fringe ,  usually confined to the outer margin .
the aciculae or filaments of the paddle fringe ,  usually confined to the outer margin .
the thickened ,  sclerotized ,  basolateral part of the paddle .
the thickened median veinlike supporting structure of the paddle .
in some culicine larvae ,  the middle group of lateral premental teeth occurring on the labiohypopharynx .
in certain culicine larvae ,  a filamentous projection arising from the posterior margin of the spiracular apodeme  ( forming part of a common spiracular opening when the posterior median process is present )  and protruding caudad between the posterolateral spiracular lobes of the spiracular apparatus .
one of the paired appendicular organs of the insect head .
an external depression in the head at the base of each anterior tentorial arm .
the set of the appendages located on the pupal head used in feeding .
the median facial area usually bounded above by the epistomal suture and below by the clypeolabral suture .
a light - perceptive organ consisting of an aggregation of optic elements  ( ommatidia )  generally located on each side of the head .
in many immature insects ,  the cranial area bounded laterally by the frontal ecdysial lines and apically by an imaginary line between the most apical parts of the frontal ecdysial lines ;  there is no necessary homology between the cranial area included in the dorsal apotome of different insects .
the fused third or posterior pair of gnathal appendages .
the median preoral appendage articulated with the clypeus by the clypeolabral suture .
one of the first pair of gnathal appendages .
one of the second pair of gnathal appendages .
the teleopodite of the maxilla .
in most immature insects ,  the lateral and ventral areas of the cranium lateral to the epicranial ecdysial lines ,  excluding any ventral apotomes and the submentum or labiogula if either can be distinguished from the adjacent cranial parts .
in the pupae of certain insects ,  any one to several paired lateral ocelluslike light - perceptive organs of the lateralia ;  composed of a few large optic elements unlike the ommatidia of compound eyes .
the pair of endoskeletal struts of the cranium formed chiefly of the fused anterior and posterior tentorial arms .
the right or left half of the tentorium comprised mainly of the united anterior and posterior tentorial arms .
in certain culicine larvae ,  a group of nodule -  ,  tooth -  ,  spine -  ,  or hair - like cuticular projections located lateroventral to the lateral prelabial teeth of the labiohypopharynx .
in some dixid and culicine larvae ,  a row or series of tooth - like projections located on either side of the midline of the labiohypopharynx immediately ventral to the salivary slit ;  sometimes borne on a ridge as in certain uranotaenia larvae ;  prelabial sensorium 1 is sometimes closely associated with or lies near the ventral margin of the teeth .
in dixid larvae ,  one of a pair of denticulate tritural surfaces situated on either side of the hypopharyngeal component of the labiohypopharynx ;  functionally but not structurally homologous with the prelabial mala of certain culicids ;  the accessory teeth of the mandibles occlude with the hypopharyngeal malae .
the first or anterior segment of the thorax .
the second segment of the thorax .
the third segment of the thorax .
in animals ,  one of the paired appendages ordinarily used in locomotion and support .
the notum  ( tergum )  of the mesothorax .
the principal dorsal area of the thorax belonging to the mesonotum ;  used here for the combined prescutum and scutum because these areas are not separated in mosquito pupae .
the part of the mesonotum behind the scutum ;  composed of a more or less smooth anterior area ,  scutellum ,  and a smaller ,  sometimes striated posterior area ,  mesopostnotum ,  which bears a variously developed median longitudinal ridge ;  the scutellum and mesopostnotum are usually poorly delimited or otherwise difficult to distinguish from one another .
the crestlike median longitudinal ridge of the scutum ;  bearing the dorsal ecdysial line along its midline .
a more or less smooth anterior area of the postscutal area .
the smal ,  sometimes striated posterior area of the postscutal area .
in adult pterygotous insects ,  the paired organ of flight of the mesothorax ;  in diptera ,  called simply a wing because the metathoracic wings are represented by the halteres ;  present but non - functional in the pupal stage of these insects .
the notum  ( tergum )  of the metathorax .
the tergum of the prothorax .
in adult insects ,  the paired organ of flight of the metathorax ;  represented by the halter in diptera ;  present but non - functional in the pupal stage of these insects .
a prothoracic seta ,  associated with seta 5 - ct to form the more anterior setal group of the pronotum ;  usually interpreted as being the more mesal and / or posterior of the two ;  with seta 5 - ct ,  probably homologous with either larval setae 1 -  and 2 - p ,  1 -  and 3 - p ,  or 2 -  and 3 - p respectively .
a prothoracic seta ,  associated with seta 4 - ct to form the more anterior setal group of the pronotum ;  usually interpreted as being the more lateral and / or anterior of the two ;  with seta 4 - ct ,  probably homologous with either larval setae 1 -  and 2 - p ,  1 -  and 3 - p , or 2 -  and 3 - p respectively .
a prothoracic seta ,  associated with seta 7 - ct to form the more posterior setal group of the pronotum ;  usually interpreted as being the more anterior and / or lateral of the two ;  with seta 7 - ct ,  probably homologous with either larval setae 3 -  and 4 - p ,  and 0 - p ,  or 4 -  and 5 - p respectively .
a prothoracic seta ,  associated with seta 6 - ct to form the more posterior setal group of the pronotum ;  usually interpreted as being the more posterior and / or mesal of the two ;  probably homologous with either larval setae 3 -  and 4 - p ,  4 -  and 0 - p ,  or 4 -  and 5 - p respectively .
the greatly elongate bundle of closely adherent oral appendages curled beneath the cephalothorax ;  the appendages include the labrum ,  mandibles ,  maxillae and the united labium and hypopharynx .
it is a minute conical projection which lies immediately dorsal to the labium .
the combined head and thorax .
the paired ,  usually movable ,  dorsolateral appendage of the cephalothorax containing the mesothoracic spiracle ;  apex cut off obliquely to form the pinna ,  the remainder being the meatus ;  the surface sometimes with a proximal tracheoid and a distal reticulate area or entirely reticulate .
a trumpet having the longest axis vertical more or less in line with the stem ;  narrowly funnel - shaped when closed ;  with a split  ( meatal cleft )  down one side which allows it to open widely at the surface of the water .
a trumpet having the longest axis transverse to the stem ;  often with a secondary cleft in the pinna opposite the meatal cleft ;  sometimes less wide - mouthed but with a more or less elaborate lobe ,  the tragus ,  on the rim of the pinna .
the part of the trumpet from the base to an imaginary line drawn more or less perpendicular to the longitudinal axis at the most proximal margin of the spiracular opening ;  extent expressed as a fraction of the trumpet length .
the wall of the trumpet comprised of the pinna and meatus ;  its inner surface opposes the atrial wall and its outer surface sometimes has tracheoid and reticulate areas or is entirely reticulate .
the part of the trumpet from the apex to an imaginary line drawn more or less perpendicular to the longitudinal axis at the most proximal margin of the spiracular opening ,  the part distal to the meatus ;  extent expressed as a fraction of the trumpet length .
the proximal part of the trumpet meatus when it shows more or less distinct transverse striations on the external surface ;  extent expressed as a fraction of its greatest length to the trumpet length .
the part of the trumpet meatus where the surface has an interconnected system of shallow grooves which separate raised areas of the cuticula .
a more or less elaborate lobe sometimes occurring on the rim of the pinna of a laticorn trumpet .
in some mosquito pupae ,  a more or less distinct slit or line extending into the meatus from the spiracular opening ;  allowing the spiracular opening to enlarge at the surface of the water .
in dixid and culicid larvae ,  the bilaterally paired ,  usually heavily selerotized and thickened ,  toothed or tooth - like processes occurring laterally on the midventral region of the labiohypopharynx ;  in some culicines the lateral prelabial teeth occur in 3 interconnected groups ,  lateral prelabial teeth 1 - 3 .
in insects with poorly defined segmentation behind abdominal segment ix ,  the complex formed of abdominal segments x and xi ,  with its cerci ,  and the telson .
the part of the outer margin of the paddle bearing the paddle marginal serrations ;  refractile to light .
in female nematocera ,  a sclerite of the distal part of the postgenital lobe ,  thus presumably in 11th sternite .
either of the lips forming the rims of the roof and floor of the posterior end of the vagina ;  sclerotized in mosquitoes .
in diptera ,  any sclerite of the vaginal roof other than the upper vaginal lip ,  sometimes a vaginal sclerite and the lip are continuous and are distinguishable by position only .
thirteen pairs of setae occur on the cephalothorax ,  three on the lateralia of the head ,  four on the prothorax , two on the mesothorax and usually three ,  sometimes four ,  on the metathorax .
in some culicine larvae ,  the dorsalmost group of lateral prelabial teeth occurring on the labiohypopharynx ;  usually connected with the median prelabial teeth ,  or homologous structures ,  via the prelabial dental arch .
the dorsal of the three head setae ,  borne on the lateralia of the head ;  homologous with larval seta 10 - c ;  in slide - mounted exuviae ,  the lateralia fold in such a manner that this seta becomes the most mesal and caudal while seta 3 - ct becomes the most lateral and anterior .
the median of the three head setae ,  borne on the lateralia of the head ;  homologous with larval seta 12 - c .
the ventral of the three head setae ,  borne on the lateralia of the head ;  homologous with larval seta 13 - c .
the part of the epistomal ridge posterior to a point just mesad of the antennal socket ,  i .e . ,  the part which parallels the frontal ecdysial line .
a mesothoracic seta ,  associated with seta 9 - ct to form a group close to the dorsal midline and mesal to the trumpets ;  interpreted as being either the more anterior and / or mesal of the two ;  probably homologous with larval seta 1 - m ,  both on position and degree of development .
a mesothoracic seta ,  associated with seta 8 - ct to form a group close to the dorsal midline and mesal to the trumpet ;  interpreted as being either the more posterior and / or lateral of the two ;  homology not clear ,  possibly either homologous with larval seta 4 - m or seta 5 - m .
a metathoracic seta ,  associated with setae 11 -  and 12 - ct to form a group lateroanteriorly on the metanotum ;  interpreted as being the most mesal of the group ;  homologous with larval seta 1 - t .
a metathoracic seta ,  associated with setae 10 -  and 12 - ct to form a group lateroanteriorly on the metanotum ;  interpreted as being the intermediate seta of the group homologous with larval seta 2 - t .
a metathoracic seta ,  associated with setae 10 -  and 11 - ct to form a group lateroanteriorly on the metanotum ;  interpreted as being the most lateral of the group ;  homologous with larval seta 3 - t .
an evanescent metanotal seta reported in uranotaenia by belkin ,  who stated that it bears the same relationship to seta 12 - ct that larval seta 4 - t bears to 3 - t . add reinert  ( 1981 )  recounted the presence of this seta in the culicidae and reported on its occurrence in aedes aurotaeniatus .
the seta occurring on the abdomen of the pupa .
the most anterior part of the adult alimentary canal .
the dorsal seta nearest both the posterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment i ;  usually inserted mesad of a large membranous area ;  typically a large multi - branched dendritic seta ;  in species having non - surface resting pupae ,  simple or sparsely branched ,  e .g . ,  in some mansoniini pupae .
there are two ingluvial ganglia that are situated at the junction of the foregut and midgut .
a seta sometimes present dorsally near the lateral margin of the median caudal lobe ;  arbitrarily named .
a lateral seta of the cercus ;  observed only in toxorhynchites .
one of the two  ( usually noticeably paired with seta 3 - i )  dorsal setae occurring nearest both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment i ;  the shorter of the two except in anophelinae ,  aedeomyiini ,  some mansoniini and uranotaenia pupae .
the hindgut of adult mosquito consists of pyloric chamber ,  anterior intestine ,  rectum ,  anal canal and anus .
one of the two  ( usually noticeably paired with seta 2 - i )  dorsal setae occurring nearest both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment i ;  in most genera ,  interpreted as being the more posterior and / or lateral of the two ;  usually also the longer .
the short anal canal has a thin epithelium with a much folded cuticle and a muscle coat like that of the rectum .
a dorsoanterior seta grouped with seta 5 on abdominal segment i ;  usually posterior to 5 but if at the same level it is regarded as being the mesal one of the pair .
the anterior intestine is a rather narrow looped tube of the adult hindgut .
a dorsoanterior seta grouped with seta 4 on abdominal segment i usually anterior to seta 4 but if at the same level it is regarded as being the lateral one of the pair .
it is a short ,  thin - walled ,  bulbous structure into which the malpighian tubules drain .
the seta interpreted as being the most anterior  ( and often the most mesal )  in the laterodorsal setal group 6 - 7 - 9 on abdominal segment i .
the bladder - like rectum is bounded by a layer of circular muscle fibres and by sparser longitudinal fibres .
the seta closely associated with setae 6 and 9 on abdominal segment i ;  posterior to seta 6 .
the seta usually dorsally associated with setae 6 and 9 on abdominal segment ii ;  identifiable by comparison with seta 7 on abdominal segment i .
the seta lateroventrally associated with seta 8 on abdominal segment vii ;  interpreted as being the more posterior of the two .
the ventral seta nearest both the lateral and the anterior margins of abdominal segment vii ;  associated with seta 7 ;  often absent on segment ii .
a lateral seta closely associated with setae 6 and 7 on abdominal segment i ;  the shortest  ( except in some anophelinae )  and generally the most posterior of the three .
in flattened exuviae ,  the seta inserted on or near the lateral margin of abdominal segment vii ,  generally lateral to seta 6 ;  in most taxa ,  small to minute on segments ii - vi and elongate on vii and viii .
a small ventral seta present on abdominal segment i ;  when seta 11 is also present ,  seta 10 is interpreted as being the one nearer both the longitudinal midline and the posterior margin of the segment .
apart from the small bulbous cardia at its anterior end ,  the adult midgut consists of a narrow tube - like anterior region and the stomach .
a small ventral seta on abdominal segment i .
there are five malpighian tubules that are attached to the alimentary canal posteriorly .
in some culicine larvae ,  the middle group of lateral prelabial teeth occurring on the labiohypopharynx .
a narrow tube - like anterior region through which blood passes .
a flask - shaped posterior region ,  which retains the blood meal ,  and which in culicines is capable of much distension .
a minute ventral seta near the anterior margin at the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment viii .
the terminal or outer seta of the paddle ;  arbitrarily named .
the subterminal or inner seta of the paddle ;  often absent ;  arbitrarily named .
one of the pair of appendages of abdominal segment xi ;  often articulating with a more anterior segment , particularly when the posterior segments are reduced .
the second abdominal segment of mosquito pupa .
the sternum of abdominal segment ix .
the ventral sclerotization of a body segment ,  primary sternum .
in many mosquito pupae with a laticorn trumpet ,  a small slit extending into the pinna from the margin of the spiracular opening opposite the meatal cleft .
the eleventh abdominal segment of the pupal abdomen .
the rounded projection lying ventral to the proctiger ;  in females ,  usually small ,  inconspicuous and spiculate ;  in males ,  large and partially bilobed ,  representing fused gonocoxopodites .
the combined tergum ix and genital lobe in pupae ;  including the cerci in females .
the wall of the spiracular atrium ;  clothed in a network of specialized spicules ,  the filter apparatus .
in arthropods ,  any dorsal preformed line of weakness along which the cuticle splits  ( usually )  or bends during ecdysis .
the network of specialized spicules which covers the atrial wall ;  sometimes forming a perforated plate .
a part of a preformed line of weakness of the cuticle involved in opening or folding at ecdysis that extends onto the cranium .
in many immature arthropods ,  one of the arms of the epicranial ecdysial line ;  course varying widely among insects ;  often not homologous between different insects .
the dorsal sclerotization of a body segment ;  called notum in the thorax .
the tergum of abdominal segment ii .
the tergum of abdominal segment i .
the junction of the maxillary body and the maxillary palpus .
the teleopodite of the maxilla .
in mosquito and dixid larvae ,  one of the spicules occurring on the maxillary palpus ;  located on the dorsal surface in anophelines and near its apex in toxorhynchitines and some culicines  ( primarily predaceous species )  .
in many animals ,  a circular or semicircular strip or band at the back of the head or front of the trunk or thorax ,  the morphological makeup varying with the taxa .
the posterior opening of the head into the cervix .
the posterior area of the cranium at the dorsal and lateral margins of the occipital foramen ;  separated from the more anterior areas of the cranium by the postoccipital suture .
a line of inflection extending dorsad from each posterior tentorial pit and separating the postocciput from more anterior areas of the cranium ;  forming the postoccipital ridge internally .
the apodeme marked externally by the postoccipital suture .
in certain mosquito larvae ,  one of one or more paired protruding vesicular expansions of cephalic articulatory membranes ;  in at least some cases serving as a gill .
in many nematocerous larvae ,  the narrow or broad emargination in the posterodorsal edge of the cranium to which the epicranial ecdysial lines extend .
in insects ,  a loosely defined paired part of the cranium ,  applied in various ways in different insects ,  most commonly to the area between the compound eye and the mandible .
in insects ,  a loosely defined part of the cranium ,  applied in various ways in different insects ,  most commonly for an indefinite ventrolateral part of the lateralia between the gena and the postoccipital suture ;  sometimes considered as part of the gena ,  sometimes as a separated area .
in some insects ,  the ventral portion of the lateralia below the subgenal suture .
in insects ,  applied by some authors to the part of the cranium including the compound eye ,  stemmata and an ill - defined adjacent area .
the pair of endoskeletal struts of the cranium formed chiefly of the fused anterior and posterior tentorial arms .
the apodeme extending posteriad from the anterior tentorial pit ;  ending free  ( in some insects )  or in contact with the posterior tentorial arm  ( in most insects )  ;  sometimes with secondary arms .
an external depression in the cranium at the base of each anterior tentorial arm .
the apodeme extending anteriad from the posterior tentorial pit ;  ending free  ( in some insects )  or in contact with the anterior tentorial arm  ( in most insects )  ;  sometimes with secondary arms .
an external depression in the cranium at the base of each posterior tentorial arm ;  situated at the junction of the hypostomal and postoccipital sutures when they are present .
the second or intermediate division  ( tagma )  of the insect body .
the first or anterior segment of the thorax .
the second or middle segment of the thorax .
the third ,  posterior segment of the thorax .
in anopheline larvae ,  a bilobed membranous structure borne dorsally on each side of the prothorax ;  holds the thorax to the water's surface during feeding ;  retracted into the thorax upon submersion .
in some culicine larvae ,  the ventralmost group of lateral prelabial teeth occurring on the labiohypopharynx .
the elevated and folded lateral fleshy margins of the hypopharynx which occur in anopheles quadrimaculatus and many other culicid larvae .
the central area of the prelabial part of the labiohypopharynx between the salivary slit and the prelabial cusps and / or prelabial sensoria 1 in aedes aegypti .
in anopheline larvae ,  the more expanded membranous part of each lobe of nuttall and shipley's organ .
in anopheline larvae ,  the lateral lobe of the bilobed proximal part of nuttall and shipley's organ .
in anopheline larvae ,  the basal stalk of nuttall and shipley's organ supporting the more membranous bilobed part .
in many culicid larvae ,  a highly variable ,  usually heavily sclerotized toothed or cusped prominence located between the lateral prelabial teeth of the labiohypopharynx ;  comprising the unrecognizably fused prelabial cusps ,  mesal parts of the prelabial dental arches ,  prelabial denticulus ,  and the prelabial crown .
in anopheline larvae ,  the mesal lobe of the bilobed proximal part of nuttall and shipley's organ .
in insects ,  the membranous tube attaching the thorax to the margins of the occipital foramen .
the membranous tube connecting the thorax to the head at the margins of the occipital foramen .
in some mosquito larvae ,  primarily of the genus aedes ,  a small pigmented plate occurring on the ventral median area of the cervix ;  its pigmentation and development is variable .
the transverse suture separating the labrum and clypeus .
in most insects ,  the internal ridge associated with the clypeolabral suture when this suture is not entirely membranous .
in dixid and culicid larvae ,  a variable collection of scale -  ,  hair -  ,  and / or spine - like processes borne on the ventral margin of the labiohypopharynx .
observable in some culicid larvae ,  a small cuticular ingrowth located at the middle of the lateral margins of the prelabial component of the labiohypopharynx ;  receiving the insertion of the cranial adductors .
a paired straplike cranial process comprised of the end of the clypeolabral ridge and the adjacent lateral corners of the paraclypeal lobe and median labral plate ,  articulating distally with the base of the torma .
the part of the preoral cavity between the clypeopalatum and the hypopharynx .
in mosquito and some other nematocerous larvae ,  a paired cranial element of the cibarial wall just anterior to the mouth ,  its dorsolateral part being a narrow process of the clypeus in front and lateralia behind ,  its ventromesal part being an arm of uncertain homology extending dorsolaterad from the labiohypopharynx ;  when present ,  the precoila ,  anterior tentorial pit ,  lateral oral bar and outer end of the epistomal suture are often or always associated with it .
the line formed by the bases of the spicules forming the laciniarastrum 2 .
the median preoral appendage articulated with the clypeus by the clypeolabral suture .
the median facial sclerite basal to the labrum ;  giving origin to the dorsal cibarial muscles ;  usually bounded anteriorly by the clypeolabral suture and posteriorly by the epistomal suture ;  if the transverse part of the epistomal suture is absent ,  the frons and clypeus are continuous and thus form a frontoclypeus .
the oral surfaces of the labrum and clypeus ,  bounded posteriorly by mouth ,  limited arbitrarily laterally by the lateral margins of clypeus and the usual dorsal sclerite ( s )  of the labrum ;  divided into the labropalatum and clypeopalatum .
in nematocerous larvae ,  any brush of close - set filaments of the palatum .
in most mosquito larvae ,  the distal ,  unpaired palatal brush formed by some of the long filaments attached to the anteromedian palatal lobe .
in certain nematocerous larvae ,  the paired palatal brush borne anterolaterally on the labropalatum distal to the median labral plate and the torma ;  sometimes reduced to a few filaments .
in mosquito and some other nematocerous larvae ,  any specialized filament of the lateral palatal brush ;  inserted in holes along the lateral palatal crossbars .
a paired palatal brush of variously developed filaments attached to the midpalatal lobe .
any specialized filament of the midpalatal brush .
in arthropods ,  any specialized cuticular area bearing a brush of regularly - arranged spicules ;  limited peripherally by the attachment points of the marginal elements of the brush .
the part of the palatum formed by the oral surface of the labrum .
the part of the palatum formed by the under surface of the clypeus ,  the roof of the cibarium .
a small triangular sclerite of the clypeopalatum intercalated between the black - spot area of the paraclypeal lobe and a posterior arm of the torma ;  bearing seta 2 - lp .
in those immature insects in which the frontal ecdysial line extends into the clypeus ,  that paired part of the clypeus lateral to the ecdysial line ;  confluent anteriorly with the median area of the clypeus if the ecdysial line does not reach the clypeolabral suture ;  not strictly homologous among insects because of the variable location of the frontal ecdysial line .
the darkly pigmented ,  ventromesally directed middle division of the paraclypeal lobe .
in some insects ,  the proximal sclerite of the clypeus when the clypeus is transversely divided by a suture .
in some insects ,  the distal sclerite of the clypeus when the clypeus is transversely divided by a suture .
the first anterior part of the alimentary canal .
the anterior opening of the stomodeum .
the part of the stomodeum between the mouth and the oesophagus .
the distal ,  unpaired labropalatal lobe ;  usually bearing a brush of filaments .
in many mosquito larvae ,  the specialized cuticular area bearing the brush on the anteromedian palatal lobe .
in certain nematocerous larvae ,  the specialized cuticular area bearing the lateral palatal brush .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of the specialized sclerotized rods extending transversely across the lateral palatal penicular area ;  the bases of the lateral palatal brush filaments are inserted in holes along these rods .
in mosquito and in dixid larvae ,  a sclerite intercalated between the torma and the lateral palatal penicular area .
a labropalatal lobe located between the tormae behind the anterior palatal bar ;  ending posteriorly in the intertorma ;  guarding the entrance of the cibarium ;  bearing the midpalatal brushes .
the specialized cuticular area bearing the midpalatal brush .
the system of pharyngeal fringes borne by the lateral walls of the pharynx which strain food particles from the current produced by the expansion and contraction of the pharynx .
in many mosquito and certain other nematocerous larvae ,  one of a number of rows of filaments situated in the lateral recesses of the pharynx which collectively function to retain food particles in the pharynx .
in many mosquito and certain other nematocerous larvae ,  one of the often branched or branch - tipped spicules comprising a pharyngeal fringe .
in non - predatory mosquito larvae ,  the narrow posterior part of the pharynx which projects dorsally where the various pharyngeal sclerites converge .
observable in some mosquito larvae ,  a small ingrowth located on each lateral margin of the prementum ;  receiving the insertion of a cranial adductor muscle which is probably homologous with one of two pairs of tentorio - premental muscles found in generalized insects .
in mosquito and certain other nematocerous larvae ,  the protruding surface located between the mouth and the dorsomentum ;  comprising the prelabium and hypopharynx which are joined and supported by the cibarial bars from the lateral cranial walls ;  forming the ventroposterior wall of the preoral cavity .
the median postoral appendage of the head .
in some mosquito larvae ,  a sclerotized rodlike internal structure of the hypopharynx ;  sometimes appearing as a complete loop around the salivary meatus ,  e .g . ,  in eretmapodites ,  but the ventral half of the loop is usually not attached to the dorsal half ,  weakly developed and / or absent .
the space or passage between the hypopharynx and the prementum at the inner end of which is the salivary orifice .
the opening of the salivary duct ( s )  into the salivary meatus between the bases of the hypopharynx and prementum .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of a pair of laterally symmetrical ,  often indefinite laminae of the pharynx which articulate with the lateral oral bars anteriorly and bear the insertions of the lateral dialators of the pharynx .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of a pair of laterally symmetrical ,  usually indefinite laminae located immediately ventral to the laterodorsal pharyngeal sclerites in the lateral walls of the pharynx ;  more heavily sclerotized and more clearly delimited posteriorly .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of a pair of prominent ,  dorsoventrally flattened ,  crescentic riblike thickenings located immediately mesal and / or slightly dorsal to the laterodorsal pharyngeal sclerites in the lateral walls of the pharynx ;  bearing the primary dorsal fringes .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of a prominent pair of dorsoventrally flattened ,  crescentic riblike thickenings located immediately mesal and / or slightly ventral to the lateroventral pharyngeal sclerites in the lateral walls of the pharynx ;  bearing the primary ventral fringes .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a prominent row of usually branch - tipped filaments borne on the inner edge of a mediodorsal pharyngeal sclerite .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a prominent row of usually branch - tipped filaments borne on the inner edge of a medioventral pharyngeal sclerite .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of a pair of laterally symmetrical ,  roughly lunulate plates of the dorsal wall of the pharynx .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a narrow band of sometimes lightly sclerotized cuticle extending along the lateroventral margin of the pharynx from the anterior part of the ventral oral sclerite ;  with or without one or two secondary ventral fringes ;  in many cases ,  one or two fringes appear to arise close to each side of the sclerite but not directly from it .
in most anopheline and dixid larvae ,  a strip or wedge of thin and / or weakly sclerotized cuticle which partly separates the stipes and galea on the ventral surface of the maxillary body .
in anopheline larvae ,  a large heart - shaped flap - like structure located dorsal to and closely associated with the prelabial outgrowths ;  the reduced homologous structure in culicines ,  when present ,  is considered as one of the prelabial outgrowths .
in anopheline and some culicine larvae ,  an elevated ,  usually cusped tongue - like structure located between the median prelabial tooth and the prelabial outgrowths of the labiohypopharynx ;  in other culicines it is unrecognizably fused with the prelabial cusps ,  prelabial denticulus ,  and the mesal parts of the prelabial dental arches to form the complex of median prelabial teeth ;  believed to be at least partly homologous with a narrow toothed ridge located ventral to the median prelabial tooth in some dixids .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of the pharyngeal fringes borne ventral to the lateroventral pharyngeal sclerite in the lateral margin of the pharynx ;  a primary ventral fringe is borne on the medioventral pharyngeal sclerite ;  secondary ventral fringes arise from the walls of the pharynx ventral to the primary ventral fringe .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of usually two to four rows of filaments borne by the walls of the pharynx ventral to the medioventral pharyngeal sclerite ;  it is uncertain whether or not two fringes arise directly from  ( in anophelines )  or closely opposed  ( in culicines )  the sides of the ventral pharyngeal sclerite ;  the bases of the filaments are connected by a strip of membranous cuticle which gives the fringe the appearance of arising from a sclerite .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of the pharyngeal fringes borne dorsal to the laterodorsal pharyngeal sclerite in the lateral margin of the pharynx ;  a primary dorsal fringe is borne on the mediodorsal pharyngeal sclerite ;  secondary dorsal fringes arise from the walls of the pharynx dorsal to the primary dorsal fringe .
in many mosquito larvae ,  one of usually one to three rows of filaments borne by the walls of the pharynx between the lateral edge of a dorsal pharyngeal sclerite and a mediodorsal pharyngeal sclerite ;  the bases of the filaments are connected by a strip of membranous cuticle which gives the fringe the appearance of arising from a sclerite .
in some mosquito and chironomid larvae ,  the upper and more distal of the two subdivisions produced when the mentum is completely  ( in mosquito larvae )  or incompletely  ( in chironomid larvae )  divided by a transverse inflection of membrane ;  probably not strictly homologous between mosquito and chironomid larvae .
in nematocerous larvae ,  one of the distal teeth or serrations of the dorsomentum .
in some mosquito and chironomid larvae ,  the lower and more proximal of the two transverse ,  usually projecting ,  specialized subdivisions produced when the mentum is completely  ( in mosquito larvae )  or incompletely  ( in chironomid )  divided by a transverse inflection of membrane ;  in anopheline larvae ,  developed as a well - sclerotized ,  apically dentate projection ;  in culicine larvae ,  hardly distinguishable from the adjacent membranes ,  but somewhat arbitrarily considered to be the narrow or broad ,  transverse apparently lightly sclerotized ,  spiculate area distal to the membrane regarded as the submentomental suture ;  probably not strictly homologous among all mosquito larvae and certainly not from mosquito larvae to chironomid larvae .
in dixid and some culicid larvae ,  a grouping of nodule -  ,  spine -  ,  or tubercle - like processes located centrally on the prelabial part of the labiohypopharynx ;  in dixid and some culicine larvae the cusps are located ventral to the salivary slit and / or between prelabial sensoria 1 and may be homologous with some of the denticles occurring on the prelabial malae of anophelines ;  incorporated ,  at least in part ,  into the complex of median prelabial teeth found in many culicines .
ventrolateral setae 9 - 12 of any thoracic segment ;  borne on a common tubercle .
in mosquito and dixid larvae ,  the bilaterally paired ,  usually heavily sclerotized and thickened toothed processes occurring in three interconnected groups ,  lateral premental teeth 1 - 3 .
in many culicid larvae ,  a heavily sclerotized ,  curved ridge -  or rod - like thickening connecting the lateral and medial prelabial teeth dorsally ;  often grooved and / or bearing small dentiform processes ;  sometimes united with the median prelabial teeth only ;  apparently poorly developed or unrecognizable in most anophelines .
in mosquito and dixid larvae ,  a variable collection of blades ,  filaments ,  spinules or other spicules borne on the ventral margin of the labiohypopharynx .
in anopheline larvae ,  a large - shaped flaplike structure located dorsal to and closely associated with the ventral premental spicules .
in dixid and some mosquito larvae ,  a group of small denticles located centrally on the labiohypopharynx ;  incorporated into the complex of prementoligular teeth in many culicines ;  seemingly homologous for the most part with the anopheline premental ridge teeth .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a heavily sclerotized curved ridge -  or rodlike thickening connecting the lateral premental teeth and the ligula dorsally ;  often grooved and / or bearing small teeth or denticles ;  apparently poorly developed or unrecognizable in anophelines .
in anopheline and certain culicine larvae ,  one of a pair of denticulate tritural surfaces borne on each dorsolateral surface of the labiohypopharynx adjacent to the lateral premental teeth ;  probably homologous with the hypopharyngeal malae of dixid larvae ;  the accessory teeth of the mandibles occlude with the premental malae .
the bilaterally paired assemblage of teeth and denticles located dorsal and lateral to the labial palpi ;  comprising an interconnected group of lateral premental teeth which flank the labial palpi and a premental dental arch which curves around the dorsal margin of each labial palpus and is united with the ligula .
in anopheline larvae ,  several large teeth located along the elevated midline of the prementum between the premental malae ;  seemingly homologous with the culicine premental cusps .
the dorsal sclerite of the labrum ;  separated from the dorsal apotome by the clypeolabral suture .
in most insects ,  a sclerotized area in the posterolateral deflexed part of the main labral sclerite ;  normally bearing the lateral labral retractor muscle insertions ;  often extending well into the palatum ;  sometimes detached from the main labral sclerite .
any apodeme of a torma .
in at least some culicine larvae ,  the darkly pigmented ,  prominent ,  well - sclerotized ,  curved barlike unit of the tormal apodeme ;  connected to the lateral tormal process by a pale flexible part of the tormal apodeme and probably similarly connected to the intertorma ;  serving for the attachment of the lateral labral retractor muscles .
in some insects ,  a labropalatal sclerite at or near the posteroventral boundary of the labrum between the tormae ;  sometimes incomplete laterally or mesally .
in some insects ,  the paired apodeme on which one of the lateral labral retractor muscles is inserted laterally on the intertorma .
in most insects ,  the part of the clypeal surface articulating with the preartis of the mandible ,  along with the adjacent specialized ,  usually thickened cuticle ;  often forming an acetabulum .
in most insects ,  the part of the cranial surface articulating with the postartis of the mandible ,  including the adjacent specialize ,  usually thickened cranial cuticle ;  often forming an acetabulum .
the bossed membranous surface intervening between the median labral plate and the anteromedian palatal and lateral palatal penicular areas .
in most insects ,  the part of the cranium articulating with the parartis of the maxilla ,  specifically the articulating surface and the adjacent specialized ,  usually thickened cranial cuticle ;  usually condyloid .
in mosquito and some other nematocerous larvae ,  a wide cranial inflection extending from near the base of the cibarial bar to behind the antennal socket .
the part of the pharynx lying dorsal to and including the laterodorsal pharyngeal sclerites .
a curved sclerite at each lateral angle of the mouth ,  articulated anteriorly with the cibarial bar just mesal to the precoila and posteriorly with the laterodorsal pharyngeal sclerite ;  possibly homologous with the part of the hypopharyngeal suspensorial bar located at the lateral angle of the mouth in generalized insects .
a transverse labropalatal structure formed of a pair of well - sclerotized lateral parts articulating on the mesal tormal processes and a short ,  pale ,  flexible interposed mesal unit .
in most insects ,  the part of the maxilla articulating with the paracoila ;  often forming a condyle .
the combined epistomal ridge and cibarial bar .
any labropalatal filament between the inner edges of the lateral palatal penicular areas .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a small crescentic plate located just inside the mouth on the midline of the dorsal wall of the pharynx ;  often bearing a fringe covering of filaments ,  the dorsal oral brush ,  on or near its inner  ( posterior )  margin .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a fringe or covering of filaments located on or near the dorsal oral sclerite at the dorsal margin of the mouth .
in some mosquito and dixid larvae ,  a row or series of teeth located on each side of the midline of the labiohypopharynx immediately ventral to the salivary meatus ;  sometimes borne on a ridge as in certain uranotaenia larvae ;  seta 1 - lh is sometimes closely associated with or lies near the ventral margin of the teeth .
in anopheline and dixid larvae ,  a rodlike structure joining the cibarial bars immediately dorsal to the hypopharynx .
when viewed in cross section ,  the pharynx of non - predatory mosquito larvae is crescentic in shape with the lateral arms curving dorsad .
in many insects ,  a specialized structure of the embryonic or first stage larval cuticle thought to aid in opening the egg chorion during hatching .
in anopheline larvae ,  usually a scale -  or leaf - like process arising from the membranous area on either side of the prelabial crown .
in some insects ,  an arm of the parartis ,  a  \ "swelling located at the proximal end of the subcardo or cardo .
the part of the pharynx lying ventral to and including the lateroventral pharyngeal sclerites .
in dixid ,  anopheline ,  and some culicine larvae ,  a cusped process located centrally on the prelabial part of the labiohypopharynx ;  in anopheline larvae ,  located between the lateral prelabial teeth ;  in dixids and culicines ,  located immediately ventral to the prelabial cusps ;  unrecognizably incorporated into the complex of median prelabial teeth found in many culicines .
the dorsal topographic area of the insect head lying behind  ( or  \ "dorsal \ " to )  the clypeus ;  delimited posteriorly and laterally in various ways and in different insects and stages and thus not morphologically equivalent except in limited cases ;  usually bearing the origins of the dorsal pharyngeal muscles and most labral muscles .
the sector of the subgenal suture between the postcoila and the posterior tentorial pit .
the intercranial ridge associated with the hypostomal suture .
a point in the hypostomal suture at or near where the mentum is inflected into the oral surface of the labiogula .
in mosquito larvae and certain other insects ,  the paired suture lateral to the gula ;  a part of the larval postoccipital suture .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a highly variable ,  usually heavily sclerotized toothed or cusped prominence located between the labial palpi ;  comprising the unrecognizably fused premental cusps ,  at least the mesal part of the premental dental arches and the ligula .
the part of the cranium lateral to the hypostomal suture and mesal to a line along the postcoila continued posteriad toward the occipital foramen .
a band of cuticle which corresponds to the membranous cuticle connecting the bases of the filaments of a secondary dorsal fringe ;  having the appearance of a ringlike sclerite under the light microscope .
the basal part of the torma abutting the apex of the clypeolabral strap and including the adjacent swollen area to a point just beyond the insertion of seta 1 - lp ,  though not including any posterior arm of the torma .
the mesal part of the labropalatum from the anteromedian palatal lobe to the intertorma ,  inclusive .
the merostipital process or the basal articulatory part of the maxillary palpus .
in many insects ,  the median part of the hypopharynx ;  united with the lateral superlinguae to form the definitive hypopharynx .
in many mosquito larvae ,  the dorsally located ,  sometimes poorly developed ,  basal expansion of the laciniastipes which extends lateral from a point where the stipital arm and the dorsal maxillary suture merge ;  usually serving for the attachment of the cranial flexor of the lacinia but the stipital adductor is sometimes attached to it as well .
a laterally triangular process born distant to the middle of the torma ;  giving rise to the tormal apodeme or part of it .
in anopheline larvae ,  one of the rounded divisions of the proximal bilobed part of nuttal and shipley's organ supported by the  \ "columella \ " .
a branch of each cibarial arm extending along the dorsal margin of the premental component of the labiohypopharynx usually indistinct and / or completely incorporated into the prementum .
in some mosquito larvae ,  mostly anophelines and toxorhynchitines ,  incorporated into the maxillary palpus but retaining its articulation with a mandible ;  homologous with the merostipital sclerite and merostipital process found in many other mosquito larvae .
in some insects ,  the paired apodeme of the intertorma on which the medial labral retractor muscle is inserted .
a mesally directed process born distant to the middle of the torma .
in larvae of the anopheles minimus species group and the genus orthopodomyia ,  one of a number of small ,  usually paired sclerites occurring on the dorsal surface of the thorax ;  their occurrence ,  size ,  number and location are variable .
in predatory mosquito larvae ,  one of the spines or spinules which line the ventral margin of the mouth and typically project into the pharynx ;  may be homologous in part with the ventral oral brush  ( medially )  and pharyngeal fringes  ( laterally )  found in many non - predatory species ;  apparently aids in securing prey .
the part of the epistomal suture parallel to and just lateral to the frontal ecdysial line .
any one of setae 1 -  to 5 - viii .
in many insects ,  one of a pair of lateral lobes of the hypopharynx ;  united with the median lingua to form the definitive hypopharynx .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a small rounded plate located just inside the mouth on the midline of the ventral wall of the pharynx at about the level of the dorsal oral sclerite ;  usually bearing a covering of filaments ,  the ventral oral brush ,  along its posterior border .
in many culicine and perhaps some anopheline larvae ,  a covering of filaments located on the posterior margin of the ventral oral sclerite ;  apparently functioning to clean the mandibular sweepers and to retain food particles in the pharynx .
in many mosquito larvae ,  usually one or two rows of small flattened filaments located at the ventral margin of the mouth between the ventral oral sclerite and the labiohypopharynx .
a small cuticular process located below the inner basal margin of each labellum ;  serving for the attachment of the labellar abductor muscle .
the area of the prementum lateral to the lateral premental teeth and ventral to the salivary meatus ;  often with rod of spindle - shaped markings when observed under the light microscope ;  often appearing rugose in the scanning electron microscope .
the posterior part of the dorsal apotome behind the ends of the epistomal suture along with a vaguely defined dorsolateral part of the cranium .
a tiny conical ,  rounded or ridgelike elevation of the cuticula ;  commonly occurring in rows or arranged to produce a polygonal pattern on the cranium .
in most mosquito larvae and other insects ,  the junction line along which the parartis and paracoila come into contact during maxillary movements ;  in anopheline and dixid larvae ,  between the rod of parartis and the paracoila .
in dixid ,  anopheline and certain culicine larvae ,  a small sclerotized rod located between and articulating with the paracoila and the stipital arm and the maxillary body mesoventrally ;  the stipital adductor muscle is inserted on it in anophelines .
in many nematocerous and brachycerous larvae ,  a secondary point of articulation formed between the maxilla and mandible basally .
the third ,  posterior division  ( tagma )  of the insect body .
one of the annular subdivisions of the insect abdomen .
the first abdominal segment of the larval body .
the third abdominal segment of the larval body .
the fifth abdominal segment of the larval body .
the fourth abdominal segment of the larval body .
the sixth abdominal segment of the larval body .
in most nematocerous larvae ,  the ultimate or apparent ninth abdominal segment ;  largely comprising embryonic abdominal segment x but probably including parts of the true ninth and eleventh segments and the telson .
the ninth abdominal segment of the larval body .
in most nematocerous larvae ,  the apparent eighth segment of the abdomen ;  structurally comprising embryonic abdominal segments viii and ix .
the seventh abdominal segment of the larval body .
the second abdominal segment of the larval body .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of the small median or submedian dorsal sclerites located posterior to the tergal plates of abdominal segment vii .
the puncture which occurs medially on the dorsolateral area of abdominal segment iii ;  also present in mosquito pupae .
in mosquito and other dipterous larvae ,  one of a pair of functional spiracles belonging to embryonic abdominal segment viii .
in mosquito and other dipterous larvae ,  one of usually four soft elongate processes borne posteriorly around the anus of abdominal segment x .
in mosquito and certain other dipterous larvae ,  a five - lobed valvular structure  ( including the spiracular apodeme or equivalent )  encompassing the postabdominal spiracles ;  structurally comprising parts of embryonic abdominal segments viii and ix ;  borne at the apex of a siphon in culicine ,  toxorhynchitine and certain other nematocerous larvae .
the anterior ,  unpaired flaplike projection of the spiracular apparatus .
the inner sclerite  ( that nearest the spiracular openings )  of the anterior spiracular lobe of the spiracular apparatus .
the somewhat weakly developed outer sclerite  ( that nearest abdominal segment viii or the distal margin of the siphon )  of the anterior spiracular lobe of the spiracular apparatus .
one of the anterior of two bilateral pairs of flaplike projections of the spiracular apparatus .
the inner sclerite  ( that nearest the spiracular openings )  of one of the anterolateral spiracular lobes of the spiracular apparatus .
the often poorly delimited outer sclerite  ( that nearest abdominal segment viii or the distal margin of the siphon )  of one of the anterolateral spiracular lobes of the spiracular apparatus .
one of the posterior of two bilateral pairs of flaplike projections of the spiracular apparatus .
in culicine and toxorhynchitine larvae ,  the inner sclerite  ( that nearest the spiracular openings )  of one of the posterolateral spiracular lobes of the spiracular apparatus ;  apparently part of the median plate in anopheline larvae .
the often poorly delimited outer sclerite  ( that nearest abdominal segment viii or the distal margin of the siphon )  of one of the posterolateral spiracular lobes of the spiracular apparatus .
in anopheline larvae ,  a large sclerite located centrally on the dorsal surface of the spiracular apparatus which receives the attachment of the muscles which close the latter ;  homologous with the spiracular apodeme ,  posterolateral lobe plates i and the posterior median plate found in culicine and toxorhynchitine larvae .
in anopheline larvae ,  an elevated dome -  or knoblike membranous area situated posteriorly on the midline of the anterior spiracular lobe of the spiracular apparatus .
in culicine and toxorhynchitine larvae ,  a small sclerite located between posterolateral spiracular lobe plates i immediately posterior to the spiracular apodeme ;  in anopheline larvae ,  apparently part of the median plate .
in anopheline and dixid larvae ,  a more or less lateral sclerite bearing the pecten along its posterior margin ;  in some anopheline larvae ,  connected with its mate posteriorly via the u - shaped band ;  partly homologous with the siphon of other mosquito larvae .
in culicine larvae ,  a comblike row of variously developed spicules borne posterolaterally on the basal part of the siphon ;  in anopheline and dixid larvae ,  borne on the posterior margin of the pecten plate .
one of the specialized spicules comprising the pecten ;  of various forms but usually spinelike with a denticulate margin .
in insects ,  the secondary orifice of a functional spiracle .
in culicine and perhaps toxorhynchitine larvae ,  a median arm of the spiracular apodeme extending around the posterior margin of each postabdominal spiracle ;  in anopheline larvae ,  a poorly or well developed crescentic sclerotization along the posterior margin of each postabdominal spiracle ;  that in anophelines is not strictly homologous with its counterpart in other taxa .
in some anopheline larvae ,  a sclerotized strip of cuticle located posteriorly at the base of the spiracular apparatus and connecting the pecten plates of opposite sides of abdominal segment viii ;  partly homologous with the siphon of other mosquito larvae .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a semicircular or linear band of cuticle which represents the rim of the depression in which the mandibular rake is borne .
in most culicine and first anopheline larvae ,  a row or patch of specialized spicules cantered on each side of abdominal segment viii ;  sometimes arising from a sclerite ,  the comb plate .
in most culicine and first stage anopheline larvae ,  one of the specialized spicules forming the comb ;  of variable form but usually scale -  or spinelike ;  often bearing a fringe of spinules or denticles .
one of the pointed projections located at or near the apex of the dorsal teeth and the auxiliary ventral tooth of the mandible ;  rarely are at the ventral teeth cusped .
seta 2 -  and 3 - x ;  arising in a group from the dorsocaudal angle of abdominal segment x .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a small spine arising immediately dorsal to the base of the dorsal mandibular seta .
setae 4 - x ;  usually a more or less linear series of irregularly paired setae borne posteroventrally on the midline of abdominal segment x ;  often divided into two groups ,  a posterior group of cratal setae borne on a grid and an anterior group of precratal setae borne cephalad of the grid .
in mosquito and some other nematocerous larvae ,  a large sclerite usually covering most of the dorsal and lateral surfaces of abdominal segment x ;  sometimes continuous ventrally to form a girdle .
the network of sclerotized ridges which bear the cratal setae of the ventral brush ;  with transverse grid bars at the base of individual setae ;  sometimes with lateral grid bars which may be confluent with the ventroposterior margin of the saddle .
in anopheline larvae ,  a convex area of the body wall located between the spiracular apparatus and the pecten plate on each side of abdominal segment viii ;  continuous anteriorly with the  \ "presiphonic fold \ " ;  partly homologous with the  \ "basal supporting plate \ " .
in anopheline and certain culicine larvae ,  one of a pair of denticulate tritural surfaces situated on either side of the midline of the labiohypopharynx between the salivary slit and the lateral prelabial teeth ;  functionally but not structurally homologous with the hypopharyngeal malae of dixids ;  the accessory teeth of the mandibles occlude with the prelabial malae .
in anopheline larvae ,  a  \ "chitinized sclerite \ " located anteriorly at the base of the spiracular apparatus and extending laterally to the pecten plate on each side of abdominal segment viii .
a part of the midgut ,  located at its anterior end .
the anus is situated in a small area of membrane between the bases of the cerci .
in dixid and culicid larvae ,  a poorly sclerotized membrane - like zone of cuticle located between the median prelabial teeth ,  or homologous structures ,  and the lateral prelabial teeth of the labiohypopharynx ;  bearing prelabial sensoria 2 - 5 ;  unpaired in some dixids .
in some mosquito larvae ,  a small median dorsal process of the caudal margin of the saddle which extends to the base of the dorsal brush .
one of the ventral brush setae borne on the grid .
one of the ventral brush setae borne anterior to the grid .
in anopheline larvae ,  a poorly delimited foldlike modification of the body wall located anteriorly at the base of the spiracular apparatus ;  believed to be partly homologous with the  \ "basal supporting plate \ " .
in anopheline larvae ,  the depression conforming to the sunken or concave dorsal surface of the spiracular apparatus .
in insects ,  a closed ,  nonfunctional spiracle .
in some mosquito larvae ,  a small sclerite often attached anterolaterally to the saddle .
in certain mosquito larvae ,  one in a row of posteriorly projecting spicules borne along the caudolateral margin of the saddle .
in certain anopheline larvae ,  and larvae of the chaoborid genus corethella ,  a small sclerite borne cephalad on the ventral margin of abdominal segment viii .
in anopheline larvae ,  a small sclerite occurring anteriorly on the dorsal midline of abdominal segment viii .
a partial or complete looplike band of cuticle extending anteriorly from the dorsal part of the u - shaped rod of the mandible ;  representing the rim of the depression in which is borne mandibular sweeper 2 .
in certain mosquito larvae ,  a more or less sclerotized elevated area without a grid at the base of the ventral brush .
the space enclosed by the palatum ,  hypopharynx and gnathal appendages .
one of the inner sclerites  ( those nearest the spiracular openings )  of the spiracular lobes of the spiracular apparatus ;  termed herein the anterior ,  anterolateral or posterolateral spiracular lobe plates i .
in anopheline larvae ,  several large tooth - like processes located along the elevated midline of the prelabial component of the labiohypopharynx between the prelabial malae .
one of the outer sclerites  ( those nearest abdominal segment viii all the distal margin of the siphon )  of the spiracular lobes of the spiracular apparatus ;  termed herein the anterior ,  anterolateral and posterolateral spiracular lobe plates ii .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a ridge of thickened cuticle extending anteriorly outward from the u - shaped rod near the postartis of the mandible ;  the mandibular abductor apodeme is attached under this ridge external to the u - shaped rod .
one of the transverse sclerotizations supporting the bases of individual cratal setae ;  sometimes joined laterally by lateral grid bars .
in some mosquito larvae ,  one of the more or less strongly developed longitudinal sclerotizations forming the lateral margins of the grid ;  sometimes confluent with the ventroposterior margin of the saddle .
one of the first pair of gnathal appendages .
an apodeme of the mandible which provides attachment for the mandibular abductor muscle .
an apodeme of the mandible which provides attachment for the mandibular adductor muscle .
a group of prominent ,  curved ,  acute spicules linearly arranged and varying in position from the dorsoanterior  ( in most species )  to the dorsomesal margin  ( in predaceous species )  of the mandible ;  the number of spicules is reduced in predaceous species ;  the most lateral spicules may be flattened and plumose in anophelines .
one of the elements of the mandibular brush ;  commonly bearing villi in suspension feeders and serrations in predators ;  the lateralmost spicules may be flattened and plumose in anophelines .
a linearly - arranged group of variously developed spicules borne on the ventroanterior margin of the mandible ;  extending mesally from a point near the sella to a point close to mandibular rake blade 1 .
one of the elements of the mandibular comb ;  often in the form of dendrites or echinoids ;  a single mandibular comb spicule is present in some anophelines .
a lightly sclerotized ,  rounded protuberance on the mesal margin of the mandible just posterior to the mandibular teeth ;  bearing as many as five groups of spicules ,  mandibular lobe spicules 1 - 5 ;  highly reduced or absent in predaceous species .
one of the projections borne on the mandibular lobe ;  in as many as five groups ,  mandibular lobe spicules 1 - 5 .
a cluster of spicules borne apically on the labula of the mandibular lobe ;  usually in the form of spinules .
a cluster of small spicules borne apically on the anterior lip of the mandibular lobe ;  often in the form of spinules .
a cluster of spicules situated on the anterodorsal margin of the labula of the mandibular lobe ;  often in the form of spinules or simple filaments .
an often linearly - arranged group of spicules situated lateral to mandibular lobe spicules 2 on the anterior or anteroventral surface of the mandibular lobe ;  usually in the form of simple filaments .
a linearly - arranged group of spicules beginning dorsally at either the base of the labula or the mandibular lobe proper and extending either anteriorly along the base of the lobe or laterally onto the body of the mandible ;  often in the form of flattened simple filaments .
in some mosquito larvae ,  one of several minute tubercles or spinelike projections located posteriorly at the base of the mandibular lobe .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a group or covering of fine filaments located anterodorsally on the mandible ;  extending from the rim of the sella along the base of the mandibular brush ;  in anophelines ,  the filaments at the rim of the sella are sometimes long and easily confused with setae 2e - mn .
a saddle - shaped depression in the laterodistal margin of the mandible ;  bearing setae 2 - mn .
a small puncture occurring lateroposteriorly on the dorsal surface of the mandible near the preartis ;  bearing a small dorne - shaped projection or conical peg .
the u - shaped thickened basal rim of the mandible ;  appearing as a rodlike structure in the light microscope with the base of the u being lateral and its arms extending mesad ;  the arms sometimes meet or are fused mesally to give the rod the appearance of being a narrow ellipse ;  the pre -  and postartis are projections of the rod .
in most insects ,  the part of the mandible articulating with the precoila ;  often forming a condyle .
in most insects ,  the part of the mandible articulating with the postcoila ;  often forming a condyle .
a serried rank of variably - shaped spicules arising ventral and posterior to the ventral teeth of the mandible ;  the anterior spicules are typical blades ,  mandibular rake blades ;  the posterior spicules are usually plumose ,  pectinate or serrate and are referred to simply as mandibular rake spicules .
one of the flattened ,  elongate anterior spicules of the mandibular rake ;  usually one to three in number ,  mandibular rake blades 1 - 3 ,  they are extremely variable in size and form ;  often bearing aciculae or toothlike processes .
the most anterior and largest of the mandibular rake blades ;  usually pectunculate .
the spicule located immediately posterior to mandibular rake blade 1 ;  the middle of the three mandibular rake blades presently known .
the most posterior of the three mandibular rake blades presently known ;  similar in size and shape to mandibular rake blade 2 .
one of the posterior elements of the mandibular rake ;  usually in the form of filaments of various size and type .
a grouping of various types of small spicules located laterodorsally on the mandible ;  sometimes extending onto the ventral surface ;  in anophelines ,  commonly bearing a row of filaments ,  the mandibular spiculose area brush .
in anopheline larvae ,  a linearly - arranged group of variously developed filaments occurring dorsally within the mandibular spiculose area .
a linear group of filaments arising along the dorsal margin of the mandible ;  often divided into two groups ,  an adoral group ,  mandibular sweeper 1 ,  and an oral group ,  mandibular sweeper 2 ;  in many species ,  mandibular sweeper 2 is borne within the arcuate thickening .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a group of filaments situated on the dorsal basal margin of the mandible and arising along the u - shaped rod ;  located lateral to mandibular sweeper 2 when the latter is present .
in many mosquito larvae ,  a group of filaments situated mesal to mandibular sweeper 1 on the dorsal basal margin of the mandible ;  often located above the basal margin and borne within the arcuate thickening .
an element of the mandibular sweeper ;  often branch - tipped or barbed .
a cluster of heavily sclerotized projections occurring on the mesodistal margin of the mandible ;  including the dorsal teeth ,  ventral teeth ,  accessory teeth and an auxiliary ventral tooth ;  the auxiliary ventral tooth and the accessory teeth are often absent .
two usually small broadened teeth situated dorsally to the ventral teeth of the mandible ;  identified as the anterior dorsal tooth and the posterior dorsal tooth .
a row of closely associated teeth located ventrally on the mesodistal margin of the mandible ;  consisting of a principal tooth ,  ventral tooth 0 ,  with three teeth ,  ventral teeth 1 - 3 ,  on its posterior side and as many as four teeth ,  ventral teeth - 1 to  - 4 ,  on its anterior side .
the principal tooth of the complex of ventral teeth of the mandible ;  the largest and most prominent of the ventral teeth .
a tooth located immediately posterior to ventral tooth 0 on the mandible ;  usually smaller than ventral teeth 0 and 3 and occasionally bearing subdental tubercles .
a tooth located between and usually larger than ventral teeth 1 and 3 of the mandible ;  occasionally bearing subdental tubercles .
the posteriormost ventral tooth of the mandible ;  usually smaller than ventral tooth 2 and occasionally bearing subdental tubercles .
in some culicine larvae ,  a small tooth located immediately anterior to the base of ventral tooth 0 of the mandible .
in some aedine larvae ,  a small curved tooth occurring at the base of ventral tooth  - 4 of the mandible .
known only in some larvae of the atra section of the genus uranotaenia ,  a small tooth located between ventral tooth  - 2 and ventral tooth  - 4 of the mandible .
in many mosquito larvae ,  the most anterior of the ventral teeth of the mandible ;  characteristically spinelike when present .
in anopheline larvae ,  a group of peglike teeth borne on the mesodorsal margin of the mandible ;  located immediately posterior to and closely associated with the base of the posterior dorsal tooth ;  in some culicine larvae ,  a smaller group of similar structures are closely associated with the posterior dorsal tooth .
in some mosquito larvae ,  a small tooth located posterior to and in line with the ventral teeth of the mandible ;  usually bearing two or three cusps .
in mosquito larvae and most other insects ,  the junction line along which the preartis and precoila come into contact during mandibular movements ;  the mandibular articulation associated with the clypeus .
the more anterior of the two dorsal teeth of the mandible ;  usually bearing one or two cusps .
the more posterior of the two dorsal teeth of the mandible ;  usually bearing two or more cusps .
in most insects ,  the junction line along which the postartis and postcoila come into contact during mandibular movements .
in general ,  any innervated cuticular structure occurring on the insect prelabium .
in dixid and culicid larvae ,  the ventralmost innervated peg - like cuticular structure located on the prelabial membranous area of the labiohypopharynx .
in dixid and culicid larvae ,  the dorsalmost innervated peg - like cuticular structure occurring on the prelabial membranous area of the labiohypopharynx ;  in many culicines prelabial sensorium 2 is paired with prelabial sensorium 3 and prelabial sensorium 2 is the more mesal of the two .
in culicid and certain dixid larvae ,  an innervated peg - like cuticular structure located immediately dorsal to prelabial sensorium 5 on the prelabial membranous area of the labiohypopharynx .
in dixid and culicid larvae ,  an innervated peg - like cuticular structure located immediately ventral to prelabial sensorium 2 on the prelabial membranous area of the labiohypopharynx ;  in many culicines prelabial sensorium 3 is paired with prelabial sensorium 2 and prelabial sensorium 3 is the more lateral of the two .
in dixid and culicid larvae ,  one of the dorsalmost pair of innervated cone or peg - like cuticular structures occurring on the prelabial part of the labiohypopharynx ;  in anopheline larvae ,  located between the salivary slit and the prelabial malae ;  in dixid and some culicine larvae ,  located near or closely associated with the dorsal prelabial teeth ;  in most culicine larvae ,  located in various positions between the salivary slit and the prelabial dental arches .
in culicid ,  dixid and certain other nematocerous larvae ,  the slit - like space or channel located between the hypopharynx and prelabium ;  the salivary duct terminates in the floor of the salivary slit .
a branch of each cibarial bar extending along the lateral margin of the labiohypopharynx ;  well selerotized and easily observed in most anophelfnes ,  but usually weakly developed or unrecognizable in culicines .
in larvae of the aedes varipalpus complex ,  a spine on the posterior border of the labula  ( of the mandibular lobe )  .
in culicid larvae ,  any setal element of the mandibular brush ;  commonly bearing villiform processes in filter - feeders and serrations in predators ;  the most lateral setae may be flattened plumose structures in anophelines .
in culicine larvae ,  one of the setae or echinate tubercles of the mandibular comb .
the general surface covering of insects comprised of cuticular projections ,  i .e . ,  setae ,  scales and spicules .
a non - articulated cuticular projection ,  directly continuous with the cuticula .
a cuticular projection which arises from a basal alveolus .
a small ,  slender ,  rigid ,  needle -  or thornlike spicule .
one of the microtrichiumlike spicules comprising the tomentum which covers the cuticula  ( except the wing membrane )  ;  aculeae usually form a dense covering in adults but are normally sparse or absent in immature .
an elongate ,  flattened ,  usually stiff spicule ;  may lie in a single plane or be wavy ,  curved and / or twisted ;  sometimes movable .
any blade with two rows of acicula -  or toothlike processes .
any blade with long branches of relatively equal diameter arising below the distal third .
any blade with a few short branches arising apically or subapically .
any blade with apical or subapical notches ;  the notches are usually rounded as are the toothlike processes between them .
any blade with a row of acicula -  or toothlike processes ariseng along one side .
any blade without lateral or apical processes .
a spicule branched to resemble a tree in form ;  having a basal stem bearing irregular or dichotomous branches which may be repeatedly branched in turn .
a small toothlike spicule .
a long ,  slender ,  flexible spicule which gradually tapers to a point or is of equal diameter throughout .
any filament with minute ,  short ,  pointed processes projecting obliquely from the surface .
any filament with a few subdivisions arising apically ;  the subdivisions may be short and thick or long and slender .
any filament with a short row of small rigid processes located at the side near the apex .
any filament with long branches of equal diameter usually arising within the basal two - thirds .
any filament with long or short branches arising at regular intervals along one side .
any filament without lateral or distal processes ,  usually sharply pointed .
a spicule consisting of numerous spinelike rays projecting at various angles from a tuberclelike base .
one of the minute ,  slender ,  tapered ,  flexible spicules closely covering the wing membrane ;  characteristically bent so that they extend more or less parallel to the longitudinal veins with their apices pointed toward the wing margin .
a recurved denticlelike process ;  a series of such processes is termed serrations .
a spicule which resembles a single seta ;  usually stiff with a diameter greater than a filament ;  may be simple or bear short lateral or apical processes .
a very large ,  sturby ,  immovable spicule ;  with a sharp or narrowly rounded tip .
a minute spinelike spicule ;  always stiff ;  commonly occurring in short rows on the saddle and siphon as well as in the pharynx of toxorhynchitine larvae .
a movable spinelike spicule ;  with a ring of unsclerotized cuticle at the base .
a very stout heavy spicule with a blunt apex .
a minute ,  slender ,  flexible ,  filamentlike spicule ;  usually with a blunt tip .
any seta furnished with slender needlelike processes along the stem ;  the processes are somewhat flexible but often appear to be rigid .
any seta with minute ,  short ,  heavy ,  pointed processes projecting obliquely from the surface .
any seta with numerous moderately long ,  slender processes arising apically .
any seta flattened and leaflike ;  similar to some scales but lacking longitudinal ridges .
any seta oblong or spear - shaped ;  tapering distally to a point .
any seta with a row of short rigid processes resembling the teeth of a comb .
a small cylindrical ,  usually blunt - tipped simple seta .
any seta without lateral or apical processes .
any thick ,  spinelike ,  and usually not markedly attenuate or sharply pointed seta .
any seta beset with small spinelike processes .
branched setae have branches radiating from the base ,  oiginating as divisions of the main stem or arising along the length of the main stem .
any seta branched to resemble a tree in form ;  having a stemlike part bearing irregular or dichotomous branches which may be repeatedly forked or branched in term .
any seta with branches spreading out in a single plane from a short stem ;  in the case of some ventral brush setae the branches successively arise on one side of the stem ;  branches may be simple ,  barbed ,  aciculate or dendritic .
any seta with a few branches arising beyond the basal third of the main stem .
any seta with flattened ,  movable ,  usually horizontal branches radiating from a common point on a short stem .
any seta with long branches arising at regular intervals from one side of the main stem ;  a few small sparsely - arranged branches may arise from the opposite side .
any seta with numerous usually regularly - arranged branches arising on either side of the main stem ;  the branches on either side may be directly opposite one another or allternate .
any tufted ,  with numerous stiff branches seta ,  projecting at various angles from a single base ;  branches may be simple ,  barbed or aciculate .
any elongate process jutting from the outer surface of the cuticula .
in some culicine larvae ,  a small gap or slit between the galeastipital stem an the laciniastipes on the ventrobasal margin of the maxilla .
one of a class of maxillary brush setae located ventrally at the base of the maxillary brush in aedes vexans ;  having long branches which arise primarily on the lateral margins of the setae .
one of a medially located class of maxillary brush setae in aedes vexans which have serrated tips .
a class of dorsally located maxillary brush setae in aedes communis de geer which have branched tips .
a modified seta comprised of a slender basal stalk ,  pedicel ,  and an expanded and / or flattened distal part ,  squame ;  all scales have longitudinal ridges and arise from alveoli which are usually minute .
the slender basal stalk of a scale which supports the squame ;  with or without longitudinal ridges .
the expanded and / or flattened distal part of a scale supported by the pedicel ;  invariably with longitudinal ridges .
any scale of which the squame is circular or elliptical in cross section ;  normally narrow ,  curved and pointed ;  setalike .
a lamellar scale which is obviously unevenly developed on opposite sides of a plane which is parallel to the plane of the squame .
a sickle - shaped lamellar scale ;  the squame narrow and curved with a sharp or narrowly rounded apex .
a lamellar scale which is cuneate or gently flared distally ;  with a long thick pedicel which gradually merges into the squame ;  distal margin of squame cut off squarely or notched .
any scale widest at the middle and tapered toward the ends ;  apex sharply pointed or narrowly rounded ;  ranging from short and broad to long slender .
a straplike lamellar scale ;  much longer than broad with parallel sides ;  always truncate .
a lamellar scale which is very broad distally ,  attenuate at base ;  top rounded or truncate ,  rarely emarginate  ( heart - shaped )  ;  the squame may be parallel - sided ,  obovate or accrescent .
a curled lamellar scale with a spiral or winding form ;  the squameis usually accrescent .
a cuplike depression  ( socket )  bearing a seta or scale ;  its floor is formed by the membrane which supports the seta or scale ;  its wall is formed by a ringlike swelling of the cuticula  ( collar )  .
an alveoluslike depression not bearing a seta or scale .
one of the minute ,  pointed processes occurring on some of the maxillary brush filaments of aedes communis de geer .
in addition to being applied to a seta in a broad sense ,  belkin used the term  \ "hair \ " for a specific type of seta  \ "a seta with long ,  slender stem and attenuate apex \ " .
in diptera ,  a covering of aculeae on the body and its appendages ,  except the wings .
a translucent flattened lateral expansion of the basal part of a seta or spicule ,  especially on the ventral margin of the basal part of some mandibular comb spicules .
in male culex mosquitoes ,  a laterally directed basal process of the paraproct ;  may bend in caudal and / or ventral directions .
in culex males ,  one of the pair of variously developed lateral sclerotizations of the phallosome located between the aedeagus and proctiger ;  often consisting of inner and outer divisions which may also be subdivided ;  conceivably homologous with the opisthophallic sclerite .
in culex males ,  the dorsal and lateral part of the lateral plate of the phallosome in the normal resting position ;  variously developed .
in culex males ,  the dorsal process  ( in the normal resting position )  of the outer division of the lateral plate .
in some culex males ,  applied to the main part of the lateral plate where an internal process is distinguishable ;  the lateral plate is oterwise simple and undivided .
in culex males ,  the sternal and most mesal part of the lateral plate of the phallosome in the normal resting position .
the puncture which occurs medially on the dorsolateral area of the tergum of abdominal segment iv  ( occurring anomalously on ii )  ;  associated with setae 4 -  5 -  and 6 - iii - v ;  also present in mosquito larvae .
in some culex males ,  a more or less prominent projection arising from the inner surface  ( in the normal resting position )  of the lateral plate when the latter is otherwise simple and undivided .
in culex males ,  the variously developed lateral process  ( in the normal resting position )  of the outer division of the lateral plate of the phallosome .
in male culex mosquitoes ,  a lateral projection at the base of the outer division of the lateral plate .
a small tuft of spicules occurring on the midline of the vaginal floor just inside the lower vaginal lip of aedes aegypti .
in dixid and some culicid males ,  a transverse lobiform element of the phallosome located between the phallus and proctiger ;  supported on either side by a sclerite ,  opisthophallic sclerite .
in dixid and some culicid males ,  a supporting sclerite on each side of the opisthophallus ;  in aedes subgenus verrallina ,  fused with its mate to form a dorsal  ( prerotation sense )  transverse bridge between the basal pieces ;  perhaps homologous with the lateral plate of culex .
in male culex mosquitoes ,  a collection of spicules borne at or near the apex of the paraproct .
in dixid and some culicid males  ( aedes subgenus verrallina )  ,  the median lobe of the phallosome located between the prosophallus and opisthophallus ;  supported by a sclerite ,  aedeagal sclerite ,  on either side which connects with the basal piece  ( in dixids )  or the base of the prosophallic sclerite  ( in mosquitoes )  ;  bearing the aedeagus distally .
in male dixids ,  the transverse sclerite supporting the prosophallus .
in dixid and some culicid males ,  a ventral  ( prerotation sense )  lobelike element of the phallosome located between the bases of the gonocoxites ;  embodied by a pair of sclerites ,  prosophallic sclerites ,  which are fused in dixids ;  in mosquitoes ,  known only in aedes subgenus verrallina ;  possibly homologous with the claspettes .
in culex males ,  a mesal or dorsomesal  ( prerotation sense )  lobe located near or distal to the middle of the gonocoxite ;  bearing setae a - h .
in culex males ,  a small peglike structure arising ventrally just above the basal lateral arm of the paraproct ;  articulating with the lateral basal process of the outer division of the lateral plate .
in mosquitoes of the genus mansonia ,  a row of spiniform setae along and near the posterior margin of tergum viii .
in culex males ,  the lateral pointed process  ( in normal resting position )  of the inner division of the lateral plate of the phallosome ;  homologous with the leaflets of aedeagus in anopheles .
in culicine and toxorhynchitine larvae ,  the apodematous ridge located mesally at the base of the maxillary body ,  or the laciniastipes when distinguishable ;  usually providing attachment for the stipital adductor muscle ;  continuous with the dorsal maxillary suture ;  and bearing the parartis ventrally .
in some culicine larvae ,  a slender mesoventral extension of the galeastipes ;  usually separated from the laciniastipes basally by the basal notch ;  sometimes more directly articulated with the paracoila than the parartis and / or often narrowly fused to the lateralia ;  in some species where the stem is undeveloped ,  this area of the galeastipes is contiguous with the parartis and articulates with the paracoila ,  e .g . ,  in eretmapodites .
in dixid ,  anopheline ,  and many culicine larvae ,  a small sclerite located between the base of the maxillary palpus and the hypostomal ridge ;  bearing seta 18 - c .
the medial setae of laciniarastrum 1 in aedes cormunis de geer which bear short fork - like branches apically .
the junction of the maxillar body and the maxillary palpus .
a subdivision of tergum iii .
in some culicine larvae ,  a grouping of minute spicules located on the lateral surface of the maxillary body ,  or the galeastipes when distinguishable .
the transparent cuticle located at the base of setae 1 - mx in aedes vexans ;  probably homologous with the transparent ,  membranous cuticle which surrounds and / or forms the pedicel ( s )  that bear ( s )  the seta ( e )  in other mosquito larvae .
in many culicine larvae ,  a small ,  strongly sclerotized band or strip of cuticle which is attached to the base of the maxillary palpus ;  articulated to the base of the mandible just mesal to the postartis ;  homologous with the merostipes of dixids and the merostipital sclerite of some other culicines ;  completely incorporated into the maxillary palpus in toxorhynchitines ,  anophelines and some culicines permitting the maxillary palpus to articulate directly with the base of the mandible ,  as well as with the postartis in anophelines .
in many culicine larvae ,  a small band of cuticle located below the base of the maxillary palpus ;  articulated with the base of the mandible just mesal to the postartis ;  homologous with the merostipes of dixids and the merostipital process of some other culicines .
in some uranotaenia and perhaps other culicid larvae ,  a lightly sclerotized ,  setose sclerite located ventrally between the maxillary body and the hypostomal ridge ;  forming part of the membrane which connects the base of the maxilla and the hypostomal ridge .
in the mosquito pupa represented in both sexes principally by the anal lobe .
in mosquito larvae and other soft - bodied insects ,  one of the small sclerites from which arise one or more setae ;  these may or may not cover an elevation or tubercle .
a spinelike process of a setal support plate .
applied to a group of fine hairlike structures situated mesal to setae 2e - mn in uranotaenia sapphirina .
a subdivision of tergum iv .
in culex eggs ,  that part of the outer chorion surrounding the micropyle ,  actually surrounding the base of the corolla ,  which appears to be highly ornamented because of the presence of numerous geometrically - arranged outer chorionic tubercles .
in mansonia eggs ,  the slender anterior part of the egg giving it a flashlike appearance .
in some culicine eggs ,  a tiny impressed or elevated subdivision of an inner chorionic cell bounded by minute ridges or shallow grooves ,  the cellule wall .
in some culicine eggs ,  a tiny ridge or shallow groove completely or incompletely enclosing a cellule of an inner chorionic cell .
the  \ "sticky \ " outer chorion of the egg of aedes aegypti when in water before becoming affixed to a solid substratum .
in the eggs of mansonia species ,  one of the tiny toothlike projections of the inner chorion located inside the micropylar collar .
in orthopodomyia eggs ,  one of the flattened longitudinal ribs borne on each side of the egg ;  bearing a series of holes ,  lacunae ,  transversed by little bars ,  transverse trabeculae .
in the eggs of mansonia humeralis ,  perhaps other mansonia eggs as well ,  one of the elongate pointed projections arising at the anterior end .
in unlaid and newly laid culex eggs ,  the channel or passage extending through the degenerating nurse cells enclosed by the corolla ;  continuous with the micropylar funnel ;  its cavity is by nature a part of the micropyle .
in culex eggs ,  a circular area of the outer chorion at the posterior end which bears tubercles of larger size and different shape than those borne on lateral areas .
a subdivision of tergum ix .
a subdivision of tergum v . often incorrectly applied to an entire tergum .
a subdivision of tergum vi .
a subdivision of tergum vii .
a subdivision of tergum viii .
a subdivision of tergum x .
the puncture which occurs medially on the dorsolateral area of the tergum of abdominal segment v  ( occurring anomalously on ii )  ;  associated with setae 4 -  5 -  and 6 - iii - v ;  also present in mosquito larvae .
any seta occurring on a hindleg .
any seta occurring on a forecoxa .
a long slender part of the maxilla .
a subdivision of the sternum ii ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
a subdivision of the sternum iii ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
a subdivision of the sternum iv ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
a subdivision of the sternum v ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
a subdivision of the sternum vi ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
a subdivision of the sternum ix ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
a subdivision of the sternum vii ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
a subdivision of the sternum viii ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
a subdivision of the sternum x ;  often incorrectly applied to an entire sternum .
any seta occurring on the abdominal segment i of the larval body .
the puncture which occurs medially on the dorsolateral area of abdominal segment iv ;  also present in mosquito pupae .
in mosquito pupae ,  the non - functional and folded in loop against the side of the prothorax leg ;  comprised of the usual parts .
in mosquito pupae ,  the non - functional and folded in loop against the side of the mesothorax leg ;  comprised of the usual parts .
in mosquito pupae ,  the non - functional and folded in loop against the side of the metathorax leg ;  comprised of the usual parts .
any seta occurring on the abdominal segment ii .
any seta occurring on the abdominal segment iii of the larval body .
any seta occurring on the abdominal segment iv of the larval body .
any seta occurring on the abdominal segment v of the larval body .
any seta occurring on the abdominal segment vi of the larval body .
any seta occurring on the abdominal segment vii of the larval body .
one of the pair of spiracles of an abdominal segment .
one of the pair of spiracles of an abdominal segment .
one of the pair of spiracles of an abdominal segment .
one of the pair of spiracles of an abdominal segment .
one of the pair of spiracles of an abdominal segment .
one of the pair of spiracles of an abdominal segment .
the external depression marking the point of origin of the mesopleural apophysis ;  usually located at the lower end of the mesopleural suture .
the internal arm of the mesopleural ridge ;  marked externally by the mesopleural apophyseal pit .
the process of the pleuron which articulates with the coxa .
a process of the mesopleuron located at the upper end of the pleural suture which serves as a fulcrum for the wing .
the external depression marking the point of origin of the metapleural apophysis ;  usually located at the lower end of the metapleural suture .
the internal arm of the metapleural ridge ;  marked externally by the metapleural apophyseal pit .
the process of the metapleuron which articulates with the coxa .
a process of the metapleuron located at the upper end of the metapleural suture which serves as a fulcrum for the wing .
the external depression marking the point of origin of the pleural apophysis ;  usually located at the lower end of the pleural suture .
the internal arm of the pleural ridge ;  marked externally by the pleural apophyseal pit .
the process of the pleuron which articulates with the coxa .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of the small median or submedian dorsal sclerite located posterior to the tergal plate of abdominal segment i .
in some anopheline larvae ,  a small dorsal sclerite located immediately posterior to the tergal plate on the midline of abdominal segment i .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of usually a pair of small dorsal sclerites borne on each side of the midline immediately posterior to the median accessory tergal plates of abdominal segment i .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of the small median or submedian dorsal sclerites located posterior to the tergal plates of abdominal segment ii .
one of two padlike or divided lobes on the mesothoracic posttarsus of some insects ;  one arising below the base of each unguis .
the ventral sclerite of the mesothoracic posttarsus on which the depressor of the posttarsus is inserted ;  sometimes  ( regularly in mosquitoes )  produced apically as an empodium .
the distal median prolongation of the prothoracic unguitractor plate .
the ventral sclerite of the prothoracic posttarsus on which the depressor of the posttarsus is inserted ;  sometimes  ( regularly in mosquitoes )  produced apically as an empodium .
the ventral sclerite of the metathoracic posttarsus on which the depressor of the posttarsus is inserted ;  sometimes  ( regularly in mosquitoes )  produced apically as an empodium .
the distal median prolongation of the metathoracic unguitractor plate .
one of two padlike or divided lobes on the metathoracic posttarsus of some insects ;  one arising below the base of each unguis .
the distal median prolongation of the mesothoracic unguitractor plate .
one of two padlike or divided lobes on the thoracic posttarsus of some insects ;  one arising below the base of each unguis .
in some anopheline larvae ,  a small dorsal sclerite located immediately posterior to the tergal plate on the midline of abdominal segment ii .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of usually a pair of small dorsal sclerites borne on each side of the midline immediately posterior to the median accessory tergal plates of abdominal segment ii .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of the small median or submedian dorsal sclerites located posterior to the tergal plates of abdominal segment iii .
in some anopheline larvae ,  a small dorsal sclerite located immediately posterior to the tergal plate on the midline of abdominal segment iii .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of usually a pair of small dorsal sclerites borne on each side of the midline immediately posterior to the median accessory tergal plates of abdominal segment iii .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of the small median or submedian dorsal sclerites located posterior to the tergal plates of abdominal segment iv .
in some anopheline larvae ,  a small dorsal sclerite located immediately posterior to the tergal plate on the midline of abdominal segment iv .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of usually a pair of small dorsal sclerites borne on each side of the midline immediately posterior to the median accessory tergal plates of abdominal segment iv .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of the small median or submedian dorsal sclerites located posterior to the tergal plates of abdominal segment v .
in some anopheline larvae ,  a small dorsal sclerite located immediately posterior to the tergal plate on the midline of abdominal segment v .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of usually a pair of small dorsal sclerites borne on each side of the midline immediately posterior to the median accessory tergal plates of abdominal segment v .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of the small median or submedian dorsal sclerites located posterior to the tergal plates of abdominal segment vi .
in some anopheline larvae ,  a small dorsal sclerite located immediately posterior to the tergal plate on the midline of abdominal segment vi .
in some anopheline larvae ,  one of usually a pair of small dorsal sclerites borne on each side of the midline immediately posterior to the median accessory tergal plates of abdominal segment vi .
in some anopheline larvae ,  a small dorsal sclerite located immediately posterior to the tergal plate on the midline of abdominal segment vii .
in some anopheline larvae ,  usually one pair of small dorsal sclerites borne on each side of the midline immediately posterior to the median accessory tergal plates of abdominal segment vii .
in anopheline larvae ,  a small sclerite occurring anteriorly on the dorsal midline of abdominal segment i .
in anopheline larvae ,  a small sclerite occurring anteriorly on the dorsal midline of abdominal segment ii .
in anopheline larvae ,  a small sclerite occurring anteriorly on the dorsal midline of abdominal segment iii .
in anopheline larvae ,  a small sclerite occurring anteriorly on the dorsal midline of abdominal segment iv .
in anopheline larvae ,  a small sclerite occurring anteriorly on the dorsal midline of abdominal segment v .
in anopheline larvae ,  a small sclerite occurring anteriorly on the dorsal midline of abdominal segment vi .
in anopheline larvae ,  a small sclerite occurring anteriorly on the dorsal midline of abdominal segment vii .
in insects ,  a closed ,  nonfunctional spiracle .
in insects ,  a closed ,  nonfunctional spiracle .
in insects ,  a closed ,  nonfunctional spiracle .
in insects ,  a closed ,  nonfunctional spiracle .
in insects ,  a closed ,  nonfunctional spiracle .
the rectal papillae are composed of a thick single - layered epithelium ,  which is continuous with that of the rectal wall and similarly covered with cuticle .
in insects ,  a closed ,  nonfunctional spiracle .
in insects ,  a closed ,  nonfunctional spiracle .
in larvae of the anopheles minimus species group and the genus orthopodomyia ,  one of a number of small ,  usually paired sclerites occurring on the dorsal surface of the thorax ;  their occurrence ,  size ,  number and location are variable .
in larvae of the anopheles minimus species group and the genus orthopodomyia ,  one of a number of small ,  usually paired sclerites occurring on the dorsal surface of the thorax ;  their occurrence ,  size ,  number and location are variable .
ventrolateral setae 9 - 12 of the mesothoracic segment ;  borne on a common tubercle .
in mosquito larvae and other soft - bodied insects ,  one of the small sclerites from which arise one or more setae ;  these may or may not cover an elevation or tubercle .
in mosquito larvae and other soft - bodied insects ,  one of the small sclerites from which arise one or more setae ;  these may or may not cover an elevation or tubercle .
ventrolateral setae 9 - 12 of the metathoracic segment ;  borne on a common tubercle .
ventrolateral setae 9 - 12 of the prothoracic segment ;  borne on a common tubercle .
the organ of digestion and food uptake of the mosquito larva ,  which has also functions of ionic and osmotic regulation and of excretion .
in culex ,  aedes and anopheles larvae the midgut has four regions: cardia ,  gastric caeca ,  anterior stomach and posterior stomach .
a closed ,  non - functional spiracle .
a closed ,  non - functional spiracle .
a closed ,  non - functional spiracle .
a closed ,  non - functional spiracle .
a closed ,  non - functional spiracle .
a closed ,  non - functional spiracle .
it is the most anterior part of the alimentary canal and starts at the point where the preoral cavity opens ,  through the mouth .
the four  ( three in early instars of some species )  setae borne on a common ,  usually partially sclerotized ,  lateroventral tubercle of each thoracic segment just external to the outer end of the epidermal invagination of the imaginal leg rudiment .
the four  ( three in early instars of some species )  setae borne on a common ,  usually partially sclerotized ,  lateroventral tubercle of each thoracic segment just external to the outer end of the epidermal invagination of the imaginal leg rudiment .
the four  ( three in early instars of some species )  setae borne on a common ,  usually partially sclerotized ,  lateroventral tubercle of each thoracic segment just external to the outer end of the epidermal invagination of the imaginal leg rudiment .
the ventral  ( when viewed laterally )  or mesal  ( when viewed ventrally )  seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  usually the longest seta in the group .
the dorsal  ( when viewed laterally )  or external  ( when viewed ventrally )  posterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  usually reduced in size .
the ventral  ( when viewed laterally )  or mesal  ( when viewed ventrally )  posterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 .
the dorsal  ( when viewed laterally )  or external  ( when viewed ventrally )  anterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  elongate and usually branched .
the dorsal  ( when viewed laterally )  or external  ( when viewed ventrally )  anterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  elongate and usually branched .
the ventral  ( when viewed laterally )  or mesal  ( when viewed ventrally )  seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  usually the longest seta in the group .
the ventral  ( when viewed laterally )  or mesal  ( when viewed ventrally )  posterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 .
the dorsal  ( when viewed laterally )  or external  ( when viewed ventrally )  posterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  usually reduced in size .
the ventral  ( when viewed laterally )  or mesal  ( when viewed ventrally )  posterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 .
the ventral  ( when viewed laterally )  or mesal  ( when viewed ventrally )  seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  usually the longest seta in the group .
the dorsal  ( when viewed laterally )  or external  ( when viewed ventrally )  posterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  usually reduced in size .
the dorsal  ( when viewed laterally )  or external  ( when viewed ventrally )  anterior seta in the group of setae 9 to 12 ;  elongate and usually branched .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment ii ;  minute except in some anophelinae .
the mesodorsal seta nearest the posterior margin of abdominal segment ii ;  if seta 2 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also usually nearer the longitudinal midline and typically shorter than seta 1 ;  if seta 3 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also nearer the lateral margin ,  mesad of seta 1 in anopheles ,  however .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 11 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment ii ;  usually longer than seta 11 .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 10 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment ii ;  usually shorter than seta 10 ;  occurring in any relationship to 10 except immediately posterior .
in the pupae of some sabethine genera ,  a ventral puncture present approximately midway between the longitudinal midline and lateral margin and between the anterior and posterior margins of abdominal segment ii ;  sometimes with a minute seta as an anomaly .
the mesodorsal seta on abdominal segment ii associated with setae 1 and 3 and occurring anywhere along an anterior arc extending from lateral to mesal of seta 1 ;  sometimes distinguishable from seta 3 on one or more segments only because of a serial resemblance down the line of segments ;  nearly always the shortest of the three mesodorsal setae .
a mesodorsal seta variously associated either with setae 1 and 2 or 4 and 5 or standing alone on abdominal segment ii ;  sometimes exhibiting sufficient lack of serial resemblance in form and position on one or more segments as to be difficult to name ;  usually determinable by process of elimination ;  at least on abdominal segments iv and v ,  believed to be a homolog of larval seta 4 .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 5 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment ii ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  on viii arbitrarily applied to the inner posterior seta .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 4 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment ii ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  seta 5 is interpreted as being absent from abdominal segment viii .
a dorsoposterior seta generally inserted lateral to setae 4 and 5 and mesal to seta 9 on abdominal segment ii .
the ventral seta nearest both the lateral and the anterior margins of abdominal segment ii ;  associated with seta 7 ;  often absent on segment ii .
in flattened exuviae ,  the seta inserted on or near the lateral margin of abdominal segment ii ,  generally lateral to seta 6 ;  in most taxa ,  small to minute on segments ii - vi and elongate on vii and viii .
the larval hindgut ,  or proctodaeum ,  consists of malpighian tubules ,  posterior imaginal ring ,  pylorous ,  anterior intestine ,  rectum and anal canal .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment iii ;  minute except in some anophelinae .
the mesodorsal seta nearest the posterior margin of abdominal segment iii ;  if seta 2 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also usually nearer the longitudinal midline and typically shorter than seta 1 ;  if seta 3 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also nearer the lateral margin ,  mesad of seta 1 in anopheles ,  however .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 11 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment iii ;  usually longer than seta 11 .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 10 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment iii ;  usually shorter than seta 10 ;  occurring in any relationship to 10 except immediately posterior .
in the pupae of some sabethine genera ,  a ventral puncture present approximately midway between the longitudinal midline and lateral margin and between the anterior and posterior margins of abdominal segment iii ;  sometimes with a minute seta as an anomaly .
a minute ventral seta near the anterior margin at the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment iii .
the mesodorsal seta on abdominal segment iii associated with setae 1 and 3 and occurring anywhere along an anterior arc extending from lateral to mesal of seta 1 ;  sometimes distinguishable from seta 3 on one or more segments only because of a serial resemblance down the line of segments ;  nearly always the shortest of the three mesodorsal setae .
a mesodorsal seta variously associated either with setae 1 and 2 or 4 and 5 or standing alone on abdominal segment iii ;  sometimes exhibiting sufficient lack of serial resemblance in form and position on one or more segments as to be difficult to name ;  usually determinable by process of elimination ;  at least on abdominal segments iv and v ,  believed to be a homolog of larval seta 4 .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 5 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment iii ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  on viii arbitrarily applied to the inner posterior seta .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 4 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment iii ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  seta 5 is interpreted as being absent from abdominal segment viii .
a dorsoposterior seta generally inserted lateral to setae 4 and 5 and mesal to seta 9 on abdominal segment iii .
the seta lateroventrally associated with seta 8 on abdominal segment iii ;  interpreted as being the more posterior of the two .
the ventral seta nearest both the lateral and the anterior margins of abdominal segment iii ;  associated with seta 7 ;  often absent on segment ii .
in flattened exuviae ,  the seta inserted on or near the lateral margin of abdominal segment iii ,  generally lateral to seta 6 ;  in most taxa ,  small to minute on segments ii - vi and elongate on vii and viii .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment iv ;  minute except in some anophelinae .
the mesodorsal seta nearest the posterior margin of abdominal segment iv ;  if seta 2 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also usually nearer the longitudinal midline and typically shorter than seta 1 ;  if seta 3 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also nearer the lateral margin ,  mesad of seta 1 in anopheles ,  however .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 11 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment iv ;  usually longer than seta 11 .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 10 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment iv ;  usually shorter than seta 10 ;  occurring in any relationship to 10 except immediately posterior .
in the pupae of some sabethine genera ,  a ventral puncture present approximately midway between the longitudinal midline and lateral margin and between the anterior and posterior margins of abdominal segment iv ;  sometimes with a minute seta as an anomaly .
a minute ventral seta near the anterior margin at the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment iv .
the mesodorsal seta on abdominal segment iv associated with setae 1 and 3 and occurring anywhere along an anterior arc extending from lateral to mesal of seta 1 ;  sometimes distinguishable from seta 3 on one or more segments only because of a serial resemblance down the line of segments ;  nearly always the shortest of the three mesodorsal setae .
a mesodorsal seta variously associated either with setae 1 and 2 or 4 and 5 or standing alone on abdominal segment iv ;  sometimes exhibiting sufficient lack of serial resemblance in form and position on one or more segments as to be difficult to name ;  usually determinable by process of elimination ;  at least on abdominal segments iv and v ,  believed to be a homolog of larval seta 4 .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 5 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment iv ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  on viii arbitrarily applied to the inner posterior seta .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 4 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment iv ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  seta 5 is interpreted as being absent from abdominal segment viii .
a dorsoposterior seta generally inserted lateral to setae 4 and 5 and mesal to seta 9 on abdominal segment iv .
the seta lateroventrally associated with seta 8 on abdominal segment iv ;  interpreted as being the more posterior of the two .
the ventral seta nearest both the lateral and the anterior margins of abdominal segment iv ;  associated with seta 7 ;  often absent on segment ii .
in flattened exuviae ,  the seta inserted on or near the lateral margin of abdominal segment iv ,  generally lateral to seta 6 ;  in most taxa ,  small to minute on segments ii - vi and elongate on vii and viii .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment v ;  minute except in some anophelinae .
the mesodorsal seta nearest the posterior margin of abdominal segment v ;  if seta 2 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also usually nearer the longitudinal midline and typically shorter than seta 1 ;  if seta 3 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also nearer the lateral margin ,  mesad of seta 1 in anopheles ,  however .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 11 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment v ;  usually longer than seta 11 .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 10 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment v ;  usually shorter than seta 10 ;  occurring in any relationship to 10 except immediately posterior .
a transitory ventral seta of abdominal segment v reported from anopheles freeborni ;  regarded as being homologous with larval seta 12 .
in the pupae of some sabethine genera ,  a ventral puncture present approximately midway between the longitudinal midline and lateral margin and between the anterior and posterior margins of abdominal segment v ;  sometimes with a minute seta as an anomaly .
a minute ventral seta near the anterior margin at the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment v .
the mesodorsal seta on abdominal segment v associated with setae 1 and 3 and occurring anywhere along an anterior arc extending from lateral to mesal of seta 1 ;  sometimes distinguishable from seta 3 on one or more segments only because of a serial resemblance down the line of segments ;  nearly always the shortest of the three mesodorsal setae .
a mesodorsal seta variously associated either with setae 1 and 2 or 4 and 5 or standing alone on abdominal segment v ;  sometimes exhibiting sufficient lack of serial resemblance in form and position on one or more segments as to be difficult to name ;  usually determinable by process of elimination ;  at least on abdominal segments iv and v ,  believed to be a homolog of larval seta 4 .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 5 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment v ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  on viii arbitrarily applied to the inner posterior seta .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 4 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment v ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  seta 5 is interpreted as being absent from abdominal segment viii .
a dorsoposterior seta generally inserted lateral to setae 4 and 5 and mesal to seta 9 on abdominal segment v . seta 6 is absent from abdominal segment viii .
the seta lateroventrally associated with seta 8 on abdominal segment v ;  interpreted as being the more posterior of the two .
the ventral seta nearest both the lateral and the anterior margins of abdominal segment v ;  associated with seta 7 ;  often absent on segment ii .
in flattened exuviae ,  the seta inserted on or near the lateral margin of abdominal segment v ,  generally lateral to seta 6 ;  in most taxa ,  small to minute on segments ii - vi and elongate on vii and viii .
in flattened exuviae ,  the seta inserted on or near the lateral margin of abdominal segment vi ,  generally lateral to seta 6 ;  in most taxa ,  small to minute on segments ii - vi and elongate on vii and viii .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 10 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment vi ;  usually shorter than seta 10 ;  occurring in any relationship to 10 except immediately posterior .
in the pupae of some sabethine genera ,  a ventral puncture present approximately midway between the longitudinal midline and lateral margin and between the anterior and posterior margins of abdominal segment vi ;  sometimes with a minute seta as an anomaly .
the ventral seta nearest both the lateral and the anterior margins of abdominal segment vi ;  associated with seta 7 ;  often absent on segment ii .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 5 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment vi ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  on viii arbitrarily applied to the inner posterior seta .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 11 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment vi ;  usually longer than seta 11 .
a dorsoposterior seta generally inserted lateral to setae 4 and 5 and mesal to seta 9 on abdominal segment vi .
the seta lateroventrally associated with seta 8 on abdominal segment vi ;  interpreted as being the more posterior of the two .
the mesodorsal seta on abdominal segment vi associated with setae 1 and 3 and occurring anywhere along an anterior arc extending from lateral to mesal of seta 1 ;  sometimes distinguishable from seta 3 on one or more segments only because of a serial resemblance down the line of segments ;  nearly always the shortest of the three mesodorsal setae .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 4 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment vi ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  seta 5 is interpreted as being absent from abdominal segment viii .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment iv ;  minute except in some anophelinae .
a mesodorsal seta variously associated either with setae 1 and 2 or 4 and 5 or standing alone on abdominal segment vi ;  sometimes exhibiting sufficient lack of serial resemblance in form and position on one or more segments as to be difficult to name ;  usually determinable by process of elimination ;  at least on abdominal segments iv and v ,  believed to be a homolog of larval seta 4 .
the mesodorsal seta nearest the posterior margin of abdominal segment vi ;  if seta 2 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also usually nearer the longitudinal midline and typically shorter than seta 1 ;  if seta 3 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also nearer the lateral margin ,  mesad of seta 1 in anopheles ,  however .
a transitory ventral seta of abdominal segment vi reported from anopheles freeborni ;  regarded as being homologous with larval seta 12 .
a minute ventral seta near the anterior margin at the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment vi .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment viii ;  minute except in some anophelinae .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 11 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment vii ;  usually longer than seta 11 .
the rectum is a wide ,  quite distinct from the anterior intestine ,  and is the most densely tracheated region of the alimentary canal .
in the pupae of some sabethine genera ,  a ventral puncture present approximately midway between the longitudinal midline and lateral margin and between the anterior and posterior margins of abdominal segment vii ;  sometimes with a minute seta as an anomaly .
it is a narrow muscular tube .
the mesodorsal seta nearest the posterior margin of abdominal segment vii ;  if seta 2 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also usually nearer the longitudinal midline and typically shorter than seta 1 ;  if seta 3 is equally near or nearer ,  it is also nearer the lateral margin ,  mesad of seta 1 in anopheles ,  however .
a ventroposterior seta associated with seta 10 in a position mesal to setal group 7 - 8 on abdominal segment vii ;  usually shorter than seta 10 ;  occurring in any relationship to 10 except immediately posterior .
a mesodorsal seta variously associated either with setae 1 and 2 or 4 and 5 or standing alone on abdominal segment vii ;  sometimes exhibiting sufficient lack of serial resemblance in form and position on one or more segments as to be difficult to name ;  usually determinable by process of elimination ;  at least on abdominal segments iv and v ,  believed to be a homolog of larval seta 4 .
the mesodorsal seta on abdominal segment vii associated with setae 1 and 3 and occurring anywhere along an anterior arc extending from lateral to mesal of seta 1 ;  sometimes distinguishable from seta 3 on one or more segments only because of a serial resemblance down the line of segments ;  nearly always the shortest of the three mesodorsal setae .
a dorsoposterior seta generally inserted lateral to setae 4 and 5 and mesal to seta 9 on abdominal segment vii .
it is the short length of larval midgut that surrounds the esophageal invagination .
a minute ventral seta near the anterior margin at the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment vii .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 5 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment vii ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  on viii arbitrarily applied to the inner posterior seta .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 4 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment vii ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  seta 5 is interpreted as being absent from abdominal segment viii .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment vii ;  minute except in some anophelinae .
they are blind exspansions of the midgut sitauted immediately behind the cardia .
a dorsoposterior seta which along with seta 5 arises mesal to setal groups 1 - 2 - 3 and 6 - 9 on abdominal segment viii ;  in some cases ,  seta 4 and / or 5 are distinguishably grouped with one or more of the 1 - 2 - 3 group ;  seta 4 is usually shorter than 5 ;  on segment ii ,  4 is relatively stable in position with 5 occurring on any side of it ;  on segments iii - v ,  4 is generally nearer the puncture than 5 ;  on iii ,  4 is usually anterior and lateral to 5 ;  on iv - vi ,  4 is anterior to 5 ;  on vii ,  4 is nearly always more anterior and lateral than 5 ;  on viii arbitrarily applied to the inner posterior seta .
in flattened exuviae ,  the seta inserted on or near the lateral margin of abdominal segment viii ,  generally lateral to seta 6 ;  in most taxa ,  small to minute on segments ii - vi and elongate on vii and viii .
the larval stomach consists of two parts ,  the anterior and the posterior .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment ii ;  inconspicuous except in some sabethines where it may be prominent and stellate ;  an apparent homolog of this seta occurs on abdominal segment viii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the dorsal seta nearest both the posterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment ii ;  seta 3 - vi and sometimes seta 2 - vi may be nearer in some taxa  ( in such cases these setae can be identified through a process of elimination )  ;  usually well developed ,  may be stellate or palmate in some taxa .
the seta with setae 11 ,  12 and 13 on abdominal segment ii comprising a transverse median or somewhat posterior group of ventral setae so diversely positioned and developed down the line of segments as frequently to obscure the recognition of serial homologies .
seta 11 is stellate in some sabethines ,  usually shorter than seta 10 and ,  on abdominal segment ii ,  is always situated anterior and typically ventral to seta 10 ;  its relationship with seta 10 regarding appearance and relative position closely approximate that found on the pupa .
seta 12 is interpreted as being absent when only three in group of setae 10 to 13 are present on abdominal segment i .
seta 13 is the nearest of the group to the ventral longitudinal midline of abdominal segment ii ;  in many taxa ,  it is the most developed  ( sometimes even stellate )  of the four grouped ventral setae on at least the more posterior segments .
the ventral seta of abdominal segment ii located close to the longitudinal midline far forward on the intersegmental membrane ;  minute except in some sabethines ;  typically absent from abdominal segments i and ii ;  an apparent homolog is present on abdominal segment viii .
the dorsal seta nearest  ( except for the minute seta 0 )  to both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment ii ;  occasionally so atypically placed as to be identifiable only through a process of elimination ,  e .g . ,  in aedes  ( alanstonea )  .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 2 on abdominal segment ii ,  variable in position on succeeding segments but determinable based on branching ,  development and relative position ,  usually mesal to seta 4 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segments ii to v where it is associated with seta 5 ;  on abdominal segment vi it arises in the vicinity of seta 1 in some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segment ii ,  variable in position on succeeding segments ,  usually lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or mesal to seta 3 on abdominal segments ii to v ,  usually located anterior and mesal to seta 5  ( more often lateral on vii )  ;  stellate some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segment ii ,  its position relative to seta 4 is variable on succeeding segments but it is identifiable because of its very characteristic dorsal position on the posterolateral angle of the segment ,  usually proximal and dorsal to seta 6 .
the lateral seta borne regularly on the prominent lateral bulge about midway between the dorsal and ventral longitudinal midlines on abdominal segment ii ;  well developed on abdominal segments i and ii ,  commonly somewhat less well - developed on iii to vi ,  still smaller on vii .
the lateral seta either directly ventral or slightly posteroventral to seta 6 on abdominal segments i and ii ;  when reduced ,  as is often the case on abdominal segments iii to vii ,  it can be identified by its position relative to seta 6 ;  stellate in some taxa .
the lateral seta nearest the anterior margin of abdominal segment ii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the lateral seta associated anteriorly ,  posteriorly or ventrally with seta 7 on abdominal segment ii ;  stellate in some taxa .
five malpighian tubules open into the alimentary canal behind the stomach .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment iii ;  inconspicuous except in some sabethines where it may be prominent and stellate ;  an apparent homolog of this seta occurs on abdominal segment viii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the dorsal seta nearest both the posterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment iii ;  seta 3 - vi and sometimes seta 2 - vi may be nearer in some taxa  ( in such cases these setae can be identified through a process of elimination )  ;  usually well developed ,  may be stellate or palmate in some taxa .
the dorsal seta nearest  ( except for the minute seta 0 )  to both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment iii ;  occasionally so atypically placed as to be identifiable only through a process of elimination ,  e .g . ,  in aedes  ( alanstonea )  .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 2 on abdominal segment iii ,  variable in position on succeeding segments but determinable based on branching ,  development and relative position ,  usually mesal to seta 4 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segments ii to v where it is associated with seta 5 ;  on abdominal segment vi it arises in the vicinity of seta 1 in some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segment iii ,  variable in position on succeeding segments ,  usually lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or mesal to seta 3 on abdominal segments ii to v ,  usually located anterior and mesal to seta 5  ( more often lateral on vii )  ;  stellate some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segment iii ,  its position relative to seta 4 is variable on succeeding segments but it is identifiable because of its very characteristic dorsal position on the posterolateral angle of the segment ,  usually proximal and dorsal to seta 6 .
the lateral seta borne regularly on the prominent lateral bulge about midway between the dorsal and ventral longitudinal midlines on abdominal segment iii ;  well developed on abdominal segments i and ii ,  commonly somewhat less well - developed on iii to vi ,  still smaller on vii .
the lateral seta either directly ventral or slightly posteroventral to seta 6 on abdominal segments i and ii ;  when reduced ,  as is often the case on abdominal segments iii to vii ,  it can be identified by its position relative to seta 6 ;  stellate in some taxa .
the lateral seta nearest the anterior margin of abdominal segment iii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the lateral seta associated anteriorly ,  posteriorly or ventrally with seta 7 on abdominal segment iii ;  stellate in some taxa .
the seta with setae 11 ,  12 and 13 on abdominal segment iii comprising a transverse median or somewhat posterior group of ventral setae so diversely positioned and developed down the line of segments as frequently to obscure the recognition of serial homologies .
seta 11 is stellate in some sabethines ,  usually shorter than seta 10 and ,  on abdominal segment ii ,  is always situated anterior and typically ventral to seta 10 ;  its relationship with seta 10 regarding appearance and relative position closely approximate that found on the pupa .
seta 12 is interpreted as being absent when only three in group of setae 10 to 13 are present on abdominal segment i .
seta 13 is the nearest of the group to the ventral longitudinal midline of abdominal segment iii ;  in many taxa ,  it is the most developed  ( sometimes even stellate )  of the four grouped ventral setae on at least the more posterior segments .
the ventral seta of abdominal segment iii located close to the longitudinal midline far forward on the intersegmental membrane ;  minute except in some sabethines ;  typically absent from abdominal segments i and ii ;  an apparent homolog is present on abdominal segment viii .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment iv ;  inconspicuous except in some sabethines where it may be prominent and stellate ;  an apparent homolog of this seta occurs on abdominal segment viii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the dorsal seta nearest both the posterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment iv ;  seta 3 - vi and sometimes seta 2 - vi may be nearer in some taxa  ( in such cases these setae can be identified through a process of elimination )  ;  usually well developed ,  may be stellate or palmate in some taxa .
the dorsal seta nearest  ( except for the minute seta 0 )  to both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment iv ;  occasionally so atypically placed as to be identifiable only through a process of elimination ,  e .g . ,  in aedes  ( alanstonea )  .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 2 on abdominal segment iv ,  variable in position on succeeding segments but determinable based on branching ,  development and relative position ,  usually mesal to seta 4 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segments ii to v where it is associated with seta 5 ;  on abdominal segment vi it arises in the vicinity of seta 1 in some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segment iv ,  variable in position on succeeding segments ,  usually lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or mesal to seta 3 on abdominal segments ii to v ,  usually located anterior and mesal to seta 5  ( more often lateral on vii )  ;  stellate some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segment iv ,  its position relative to seta 4 is variable on succeeding segments but it is identifiable because of its very characteristic dorsal position on the posterolateral angle of the segment ,  usually proximal and dorsal to seta 6 .
the lateral seta borne regularly on the prominent lateral bulge about midway between the dorsal and ventral longitudinal midlines on abdominal segment iv ;  well developed on abdominal segments i and ii ,  commonly somewhat less well - developed on iii to vi ,  still smaller on vii .
the lateral seta either directly ventral or slightly posteroventral to seta 6 on abdominal segments i and ii ;  when reduced ,  as is often the case on abdominal segments iii to vii ,  it can be identified by its position relative to seta 6 ;  stellate in some taxa .
the lateral seta nearest the anterior margin of abdominal segment iv ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the lateral seta associated anteriorly ,  posteriorly or ventrally with seta 7 on abdominal segment iv ;  stellate in some taxa .
the seta with setae 11 ,  12 and 13 on abdominal segment iv comprising a transverse median or somewhat posterior group of ventral setae so diversely positioned and developed down the line of segments as frequently to obscure the recognition of serial homologies .
seta 11 is stellate in some sabethines ,  usually shorter than seta 10 and ,  on abdominal segment ii ,  is always situated anterior and typically ventral to seta 10 ;  its relationship with seta 10 regarding appearance and relative position closely approximate that found on the pupa .
seta 12 is interpreted as being absent when only three in group of setae 10 to 13 are present on abdominal segment i .
seta 13 is the nearest of the group to the ventral longitudinal midline of abdominal segment iv ;  in many taxa ,  it is the most developed  ( sometimes even stellate )  of the four grouped ventral setae on at least the more posterior segments .
the ventral seta of abdominal segment iv located close to the longitudinal midline far forward on the intersegmental membrane ;  minute except in some sabethines ;  typically absent from abdominal segments i and ii ;  an apparent homolog is present on abdominal segment viii .
the ventral seta of abdominal segment v located close to the longitudinal midline far forward on the intersegmental membrane ;  minute except in some sabethines ;  typically absent from abdominal segments i and ii ;  an apparent homolog is present on abdominal segment viii .
seta 13 is the nearest of the group to the ventral longitudinal midline of abdominal segment v ;  in many taxa ,  it is the most developed  ( sometimes even stellate )  of the four grouped ventral setae on at least the more posterior segments .
seta 12 is interpreted as being absent when only three in group of setae 10 to 13 are present on abdominal segment i .
seta 11 is stellate in some sabethines ,  usually shorter than seta 10 and ,  on abdominal segment ii ,  is always situated anterior and typically ventral to seta 10 ;  its relationship with seta 10 regarding appearance and relative position closely approximate that found on the pupa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segment v ,  variable in position on succeeding segments ,  usually lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or mesal to seta 3 on abdominal segments ii to v ,  usually located anterior and mesal to seta 5  ( more often lateral on vii )  ;  stellate some taxa .
the seta with setae 11 ,  12 and 13 on abdominal segment v comprising a transverse median or somewhat posterior group of ventral setae so diversely positioned and developed down the line of segments as frequently to obscure the recognition of serial homologies .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segment v ,  its position relative to seta 4 is variable on succeeding segments but it is identifiable because of its very characteristic dorsal position on the posterolateral angle of the segment ,  usually proximal and dorsal to seta 6 .
the lateral seta borne regularly on the prominent lateral bulge about midway between the dorsal and ventral longitudinal midlines on abdominal segment v ;  well developed on abdominal segments i and ii ,  commonly somewhat less well - developed on iii to vi ,  still smaller on vii .
the lateral seta either directly ventral or slightly posteroventral to seta 6 on abdominal segments i and ii ;  when reduced ,  as is often the case on abdominal segments iii to vii ,  it can be identified by its position relative to seta 6 ;  stellate in some taxa .
the lateral seta associated anteriorly ,  posteriorly or ventrally with seta 7 on abdominal segment v ;  stellate in some taxa .
the lateral seta nearest the anterior margin of abdominal segment v ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 2 on abdominal segment v ,  variable in position on succeeding segments but determinable based on branching ,  development and relative position ,  usually mesal to seta 4 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segments ii to v where it is associated with seta 5 ;  on abdominal segment vi it arises in the vicinity of seta 1 in some taxa .
the dorsal seta nearest  ( except for the minute seta 0 )  to both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment v ;  occasionally so atypically placed as to be identifiable only through a process of elimination ,  e .g . ,  in aedes  ( alanstonea )  .
the dorsal seta nearest both the posterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment v ;  seta 3 - vi and sometimes seta 2 - vi may be nearer in some taxa  ( in such cases these setae can be identified through a process of elimination )  ;  usually well developed ,  may be stellate or palmate in some taxa .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment v ;  inconspicuous except in some sabethines where it may be prominent and stellate ;  an apparent homolog of this seta occurs on abdominal segment viii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment iv ;  inconspicuous except in some sabethines where it may be prominent and stellate ;  an apparent homolog of this seta occurs on abdominal segment viii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the dorsal seta nearest both the posterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment vi ;  seta 3 - vi and sometimes seta 2 - vi may be nearer in some taxa  ( in such cases these setae can be identified through a process of elimination )  ;  usually well developed ,  may be stellate or palmate in some taxa .
the dorsal seta nearest  ( except for the minute seta 0 )  to both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment vi ;  occasionally so atypically placed as to be identifiable only through a process of elimination ,  e .g . ,  in aedes  ( alanstonea )  .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 2 on abdominal segment vi ,  variable in position on succeeding segments but determinable based on branching ,  development and relative position ,  usually mesal to seta 4 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segments ii to v where it is associated with seta 5 ;  on abdominal segment vi it arises in the vicinity of seta 1 in some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segment vi ,  variable in position on succeeding segments ,  usually lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or mesal to seta 3 on abdominal segments ii to v ,  usually located anterior and mesal to seta 5  ( more often lateral on vii )  ;  stellate some taxa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segment vi ,  its position relative to seta 4 is variable on succeeding segments but it is identifiable because of its very characteristic dorsal position on the posterolateral angle of the segment ,  usually proximal and dorsal to seta 6 .
the lateral seta borne regularly on the prominent lateral bulge about midway between the dorsal and ventral longitudinal midlines on abdominal segment vi ;  well developed on abdominal segments i and ii ,  commonly somewhat less well - developed on iii to vi ,  still smaller on vii .
the lateral seta either directly ventral or slightly posteroventral to seta 6 on abdominal segments i and ii ;  when reduced ,  as is often the case on abdominal segments iii to vii ,  it can be identified by its position relative to seta 6 ;  stellate in some taxa .
the lateral seta nearest the anterior margin of abdominal segment vi ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the lateral seta associated anteriorly ,  posteriorly or ventrally with seta 7 on abdominal segment vi ;  stellate in some taxa .
the seta with setae 11 ,  12 and 13 on abdominal segment vi comprising a transverse median or somewhat posterior group of ventral setae so diversely positioned and developed down the line of segments as frequently to obscure the recognition of serial homologies .
seta 11 is stellate in some sabethines ,  usually shorter than seta 10 and ,  on abdominal segment ii ,  is always situated anterior and typically ventral to seta 10 ;  its relationship with seta 10 regarding appearance and relative position closely approximate that found on the pupa .
seta 12 is interpreted as being absent when only three in group of setae 10 to 13 are present on abdominal segment i .
seta 13 is the nearest of the group to the ventral longitudinal midline of abdominal segment vi ;  in many taxa ,  it is the most developed  ( sometimes even stellate )  of the four grouped ventral setae on at least the more posterior segments .
the ventral seta of abdominal segment vi located close to the longitudinal midline far forward on the intersegmental membrane ;  minute except in some sabethines ;  typically absent from abdominal segments i and ii ;  an apparent homolog is present on abdominal segment viii .
the ventral seta of abdominal segment vii located close to the longitudinal midline far forward on the intersegmental membrane ;  minute except in some sabethines ;  typically absent from abdominal segments i and ii ;  an apparent homolog is present on abdominal segment viii .
seta 13 is the nearest of the group to the ventral longitudinal midline of abdominal segment vii ;  in many taxa ,  it is the most developed  ( sometimes even stellate )  of the four grouped ventral setae on at least the more posterior segments .
seta 12 is interpreted as being absent when only three in group of setae 10 to 13 are present on abdominal segment i .
seta 11 is stellate in some sabethines ,  usually shorter than seta 10 and ,  on abdominal segment ii ,  is always situated anterior and typically ventral to seta 10 ;  its relationship with seta 10 regarding appearance and relative position closely approximate that found on the pupa .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segment vii ,  variable in position on succeeding segments ,  usually lateral to seta 3 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or mesal to seta 3 on abdominal segments ii to v ,  usually located anterior and mesal to seta 5  ( more often lateral on vii )  ;  stellate some taxa .
the seta with setae 11 ,  12 and 13 on abdominal segment vii comprising a transverse median or somewhat posterior group of ventral setae so diversely positioned and developed down the line of segments as frequently to obscure the recognition of serial homologies .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segment vii ,  its position relative to seta 4 is variable on succeeding segments but it is identifiable because of its very characteristic dorsal position on the posterolateral angle of the segment ,  usually proximal and dorsal to seta 6 .
the lateral seta borne regularly on the prominent lateral bulge about midway between the dorsal and ventral longitudinal midlines on abdominal segment vii ;  well developed on abdominal segments i and ii ,  commonly somewhat less well - developed on iii to vi ,  still smaller on vii .
the lateral seta either directly ventral or slightly posteroventral to seta 6 on abdominal segments i and ii ;  when reduced ,  as is often the case on abdominal segments iii to vii ,  it can be identified by its position relative to seta 6 ;  stellate in some taxa .
the lateral seta associated anteriorly ,  posteriorly or ventrally with seta 7 on abdominal segment vii ;  stellate in some taxa .
the lateral seta nearest the anterior margin of abdominal segment vii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the dorsal seta sequentially in line lateral to seta 2 on abdominal segment vii ,  variable in position on succeeding segments but determinable based on branching ,  development and relative position ,  usually mesal to seta 4 on abdominal segments i ,  vi and vii ,  even with or lateral to seta 4 on abdominal segments ii to v where it is associated with seta 5 ;  on abdominal segment vi it arises in the vicinity of seta 1 in some taxa .
the dorsal seta nearest  ( except for the minute seta 0 )  to both the anterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment vii ;  occasionally so atypically placed as to be identifiable only through a process of elimination ,  e .g . ,  in aedes  ( alanstonea )  .
the dorsal seta nearest both the posterior margin and the longitudinal midline of abdominal segment vii ;  seta 3 - vi and sometimes seta 2 - vi may be nearer in some taxa  ( in such cases these setae can be identified through a process of elimination )  ;  usually well developed ,  may be stellate or palmate in some taxa .
the most anterior of the dorsal setae on abdominal segment vii ;  inconspicuous except in some sabethines where it may be prominent and stellate ;  an apparent homolog of this seta occurs on abdominal segment viii ;  absent from abdominal segment i .
the seta borne nearest the dorsal midline of the prothorax ;  the positions of the setae 1 -  ,  2 -  and 3 - p are usually close - set in a series ,  1 - p is interpreted as having the most posterior and / or mesal position of the three .
the dorsal seta located in the second position in the circumferential series of prothoracic setae ;  in some taxa ,  seta 2 may be posterior to seta 3 .
the dorsal seta located in the third position in the circumferential series of prothoracic setae ;  nearly always closely associated with setae 1 and 2 on the prothorax ;  may be anterior to and even widely separated from these setae on the meso -  and metathorax of some taxa ;  in cases where setae 3 and 4 of the latter two setae become more or less longitudinally aligned ,  the anterior seta is interpreted as being seta 3 .
the dorsal seta usually arising fourth from the dorsal midline ;  on the mesothorax of some anophelines it is posterior or posterolateral to seta 5 - m and thus fifth from the dorsal midline ;  in cases where setae 3 and 4 of the meso -  and metathorax become more or less longitudinally aligned ,  the posterior seta is interpreted as being seta 4 .
the dorsolateral seta arising fifth from the dorsal midline ;  if occurring more or less longitudinally aligned with either seta 5 or seta 6 ,  it is interpreted as being more anterior .
the lateroventral seta arising eighth from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of prothoracic setae .
the dorsolateral seta arising seventh from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of prothoracic setae ,  except that if seta 6 and 7 are nearly equidistant from the dorsal midline ,  the more anterior seta is interpreted as seta 7 even if slightly more mesal .
the dorsolateral seta arising sixth from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of prothoracic setae ;  if more or less longitudinally aligned with either seta 5 or seta 7 ,  it is interpreted as being the most posterior .
the seta located closest to the ventral midline on the prothorax ;  on the prothorax ,  sometimes aligned longitudinally with seta 13 - p ;  absent from the metathorax .
the lateroventral seta arising eighth from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of metathoracic setae .
the dorsolateral seta arising seventh from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of metathoracic setae ,  except that if seta 6 and 7 are nearly equidistant from the dorsal midline ,  the more anterior seta is interpreted as seta 7 even if slightly more mesal .
the dorsal seta usually arising fourth from the dorsal midline ;  on the mesothorax of some anophelines it is posterior or posterolateral to seta 5 - m and thus fifth from the dorsal midline ;  in cases where setae 3 and 4 of the meso -  and metathorax become more or less longitudinally aligned ,  the posterior seta is interpreted as being seta 4 .
the dorsolateral seta arising sixth from the dorsal midline in the circumferential series of metathoracic setae ;  if more or less longitudinally aligned with either seta 5 or seta 7 ,  it is interpreted as being the most posterior .
the dorsal seta located in the second position in the circumferential series of metathoracic setae ;  in some taxa ,  seta 2 may be posterior to seta 3 .
the dorsolateral seta arising fifth from the dorsal midline ;  if occurring more or less longitudinally aligned with either seta 5 or seta 6 ,  it is interpreted as being more anterior .
the dorsal seta located in the third position in the circumferential series of prothoracic setae ;  nearly always closely associated with setae 1 and 2 on the prothorax ;  may be anterior to and even widely separated from these setae on the meso -  and metathorax of some taxa ;  in cases where setae 3 and 4 of the latter two setae become more or less longitudinally aligned ,  the anterior seta is interpreted as being seta 3 .
the seta borne nearest the dorsal midline of the metathorax ;  the positions of the setae 1 -  ,  2 -  and 3 - p are usually close - set in a series ,  1 - p is interpreted as having the most posterior and / or mesal position of the three .
behind the openings of the malpighian tubules ,  is found the posterior imaginal ring ,  a band of small closely packed undifferentiated cells which become active at metamorphosis .
the pylorus is a funnel - shaped length of epithilium with a cuticular lining which bears backward - pointing spines .
the anterior intestine ,  or ileum ,  is a narrow muscular tube .
the cells of the anterior region of the stomach bear short tightly packed microvilli and the apical cytoplasm contains abundant mitochondria .
the cells of the posterior region have longer microvilli and abundant mitochondria in the apical cytoplasm .
the posterior end of the rectum tapers to join the anal canal which resembles the anterior intestine in ultrastructure .
a pair of salivary glands is present in the thorax ,  just above the forelegs and flanking the oesophagus .
the part of the salivary gland that is formed of three distinct regions ,  proximal ,  intermediate and distal .
the part of the adult salivary gland that consists of a distal region and a short neck region .
the cells of the proximal region of the lateral lobe are radially distributed around a narrow duct from which they are separated by a periductal space .
the intermediate region of the lateral lobe is short and narrow ,  and can be recognized by the constriction it makes in the lobe .
in the distal region of the lateral lobe ,  the extracellular cavities are much larger than in the proximal region and the openings that connect them to the central canal are much wider .
this region resembles the distal region of the lateral lobes .
the short neck region is the part of the median lobe that connects the median lobe with the two lateral lobes .
the salivary glands of mosquito larva .
the one part of the larval salivary gland that has spherical shape and consists of 12 - 15 cells .
the larger part of larval salivary gland that consists of 50 - 60 cells .
there are two salivary ducts ,  that conect each duct with the larval alimentary canal .
the organs of the adult mosquito that take part in the excretion of saliva and the transport of saliva to the mouthparts .
it is situated at the base of the hypopharynx .
adipohemocytes are rare small and elongated cells measuring 8 - 15 um in length .
the fluid - feeding habit of adult mosquitoes is reflected in the structure and ultrastructure of the alimentary canal .
the cavity of the malpighian tubules that contains numerous irridescent ,  spherical and subspherical guanine crystals of varying size .
the cavity of the malpighian tubules that contains numerous irridescent ,  spherical and subspherical guanine crystals of varying size .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organisation of an individual member of a biological species .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
anatomical structure that is a direct part of the cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
multi - cellular organism that has male and female sexes .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
a narrow tube - like anterior region through which blood passes .
oenocytoids present a round shape ,  approximatelly 6 - 13 um in diameter ,  with small and eccentric nucleus or oval with chromatin showing lumps of condensation .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
plasmatocytes are very polymorphic ,  varying from spindle - shaped to round cells ,  6 - 22 um in diameter .
agranular plasmatocytes presented in electron micrographs ,  a lobated nucleus with evident nucleoli in a pericentral position .
the granular plasmatocytes showed elongated or circular nucleus displaying a scattered mass of heterochomatin ,  and in some cells a large nucleolus could be observed .
granulocytes present a circular to fusiform profile 8 - 13 um in diameter .
the main body cavity .
a fat body is an insect gland dorsal to the insect gut ,  with a function analogous to that of the vertebrate liver .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
the oral surfaces of the labrum and clypeus ,  bounded posteriorly by mouth ,  limited arbitrarily laterally by the lateral margins of clypeus and the usual dorsal sclerite ( s )  of the labrum ;  divided into the labropalatum and clypeopalatum .
large elongated secretory sac which is about 260 micrometers long and 70 micrometers at its widest diameter .
