an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
unfixed fully hydrated tissue ,  typically employed to monitor dynamic changes in the living state .
staining with an aqueous or alcoholic solution of eosin y , colors eosinophilic structures in various shades of red ,  pink and orange .
the staining method involves application of hemalum ,  which is a complex formed from aluminium ions and oxidized haematoxylin .
visualization of the connected regions of a cell by filling with a label
fully hydrated tissue rapidly frozen to produce vitrified water ,  and maintained continuously below the glass transition temperature of water  ( approximately  - 137 deg c
tissue treated to make cell membranes permeable ,  typically for the purpose of allowing access by exogenous stains or substrates .
tissue made permeable by the action of glycerol
methods for imaging objects large enough to be observed by the unaided eye
methods for forming images of objects too small to be observed with the unaided eye
imaging with rejection of the unscattered illumination  ( removal of the zero order component of the diffracted wave ) 
image is formed by scanning the surface of the specimen with a beam of electrons in a raster pattern
the scanning probe is maintained at a fixed distance above the surface e of the specimen by van der waals forces
membrane permeabilization by the action of ionic or non - ionic detergents
permeabilization due to extraction of lipid from membranes by an organic solvent such as acetone or methanol .
saponin ,  a detergent - like molecule ,  preferentially forms holes in membranes that contain cholesterol .
methods and devices used for capturing an image of a real object ;  distinct from images created by artwork
methods and devices used for creating images by some form of artwork ,  as distinct from capturing images by means of some recording device
a form of graphical illustration that changes with time to give a sense of motion or represent dynamic changes in the portrayal .
sources and methods for illumination
media and devices employed for recording the alterations in the illumination that result from its interaction with the sample
the physical property of the specimen that leads to the modifications of the illumination that are recorded in the image .
illumination that covers the entire field of view of the image - forming lens
illumination restricted to a small portion of the field of view of the imaging lens ;  often one or more diffraction limited spots
illumination that varies with time ;  often achieved with pulsed lasers for the purpose of generating very - high peak illumination power
illumination by a single spot of light that is scanned across the field of view
illumination by multiple points of light simultaneously
scanning by multiple points of light arising from pinholes in a spinning disk that is illuminated by a widefield source
multiple points of illumination generated by a fixed array of sources .
illumination parallel or at small angles to the optical axis is attenuated or blocked by a stop
illumination is distributed asymmetrically around the optic axis ,  typically achieved by a non - circular stop placed below the lower lens element and aperture of the condenser .
illumination restricted to angles that exceed the acceptance angle of the image - forming lens
illumination at angles less than the acceptance angle of the image - forming lens is attenuated by a filter to give a colored background of unscattered light ;  higher angle illumination may be filtered to give a contrasting color
methods for increasing the resolution beyond the classical abbe diffraction limit
a birefringent optical element typically used to split polarized illumination into two sets of parallel but displaced rays
structured illumination used at sufficiently high power to cause significant ground - state depletion of the imaged fluorophore ,  thus allowing for non - linear resolution enhancement
imaging by means of a physical probe that passes over the sample
aperture - less nsom .
uses an objective with extra components to manipulate the wave front in the plane of the objective aperture .
a computational method that is linear in the mathematical sense ,  meaning that image intensity is conserved and the data remain suitable for all quantitative analyses
computational method that are mathematically non - linear ;  image intensity is not conserved ,  and the data are in general not suitable for quantitative analyses of pixel values
illumination in the form of a thin sheet of light directed perpendicular to the optic axis
fluorescence loss in photobleaching ;  a method of determining whether two populations of fluorophore are in diffusive communication with one another by observing the decrease in brightness of one population when the other population is subjected to continuous photobleaching .
fluorescence loss in photobleaching ;  a method of determining the rate and extent of exchange between a localized population of fluorophore and a non - localized diffusible pool ,  by observing the rate of recovery of brightness of the localized population after photobleaching .
fluorescence  ( or forster )  resonance energy transfer ;  a method of estimating the distance between two fluorophores by measuring the extent of non - radiative energy transfer between the two .
single  ( or selective )  plane illumination .
coherent raman anti - stokes microscopy
optical coherence tomography ;  an interferometric method of imaging using back - scattered photons  ( elastic scattering ) 
image created using the electrons generated by ionization of a sample due to inelastic scattering of the primary beam of radiation
imaged formed using electrons undergoing elastic scattering at very high angles ,  with emission of characteristic x - rays
illumination used for the purpose of inducing some observable change in the specimen during the course of an imaging session .
illumination in the shape of a thin line that is swept over the field of view
illumination and detection via a thin slit
fixed array of sources focused to an array of spots that is swept over the specimen in raster fashion
methods of visualization that differentiate between different regions or surfaces of the specimen based on contiguity
methods of visualization that differentiate regions of the specimen on the basis of their chemical properties
visualization by depositing a label on the surface of a specimen uniformly  ( plating )  ,  or from a particular direction so that surface topography becomes visible  ( shadowing ) 
visualization by exclusion of a stain in which the specimen is immersed ;  compare with  \ "positive staining .
fluorophore with ex / em 589 / 615
fluorophore derivative of rhodamine with ex / em 547 / 572
a fragment of a cell ,  subcellular organelle ,  or macromolecular complex .
electrons generated by inelastic scattering of other radiation ,  the primary radiation .
specimen from which water has been removed by a process that avoids liquid - gas and solid - gas phase transitions .
data as acquired ,  with no alterations that change the pixel values .
specimen from which water has been removed by evaporation under vacuum at a temperature below freezing .
fluorophore derivative of rhodamine with ex / em 580 / 605
a method of reconstructing 3d structure by combining serial sectioning with scanning em .
the source of the variation in the imaged parameter across the field of view .
an imaging technique that uses high energy electromagnetic radiation ,  typically x - rays ,  as a source of illumination .
radiography using x - rays
tomography using x - ray illumination .
an imaging technique that creates virtual sections through the use of any kind of penetrating wave .
tomography in which virtual sections are taken from multiple angles and the results are processed via tomographic reconstruction software to produce 2 or 3d images .
a method of reconstructing 3d structure by combining focussed ion beam milling to remove sucessive layers from a sample block with scanning em to image the exposed surface between each milling step .
the entity a has an activity that regulates an activity of the entity b .
