an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
anatomical structure that is a natural outgrowth ,  projection ,  or appendage .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
an intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least a mapk ,  a mapkk and a map3k .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a chromosome that encodes the nuclear genome and is found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell during the cell cycle phases when the nucleus is intact .
a chromosome found in the cytoplasm .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
a cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after mitosis ,  resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome in the cytoplasm .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome in the nucleus .
the developmental process in which the size or shape of a cell is generated and organized .
the change in form  ( cell shape and size )  that occurs when relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
the division of the cytoplasm and the plasma membrane of a cell and its partitioning into two daughter cells .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
a process that results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules .
cell migration that is accomplished by extension and retraction of a pseudopodium .
the formation of the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm during gastrulation .
the formation of ectoderm during gastrulation .
the formation of the endoderm during gastrulation .
the process that gives rise to the mesoderm .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an epithelium ,  such that they all orient to similar coordinates .
the morphogenetic process in which the anatomical structures of a polarized epithelium are generated and organized .
the formation of mesodermal clusters that are arranged segmentally along the anterior posterior axis of an embryo .
the morphogenesis of an embryonic epithelium into a tube - shaped structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the neural plate are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neural plate over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
the last step in the formation of the neural tube ,  where the paired neural folds are brought together and fuse at the dorsal midline .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into an amino acid in a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
the tube morphogenesis process in which the primitive heart tube loops asymmetrically .
the process in which the anatomical structures of epithelia are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of an epithelial sheet are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelial cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a glandular epithelial cell .
the pattern specification process that results in the subdivision of an axis or axes in space to define an area or volume in which specific patterns of cell differentiation will take place or in which cells interpret a specific environment .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
the developmental process in which the heart is generated and organized .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the circulatory system .
a circulatory system process carried out by the heart .
the series of events by which an endogenous stimulus is received by a cilium on a cell and converted to a molecular signal contributing to left / right asymmetry .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the embryonic heart tube are generated and organized .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the determination of left / right symmetry .
developmental growth that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  resulting a change in cell state that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  resulting a change in cell state that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and / or functional features of a type b pancreatic cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization that contributes to the self - propelled directed movement of an ameboid cell .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization that contributes to the self - propelled directed movement of an ameboid cell taking part in gastrulation .
the change in form that occurs when an epithelial cell progresses from it initial formation to its mature state ,  contributing to the process of gastrulation .
the change in form that occurs when an epithelial cell progresses from its initial formation to its mature state .
the actin - mediated process that results in the contraction of the apical end of a polarized columnar epithelial cell .
the actin - mediated process that results in the contraction of the apical end of a polarized columnar epithelial cell ,  contributing to the process of gastrulation .
the developmental growth that results in the elongation of a line that defines polarity or symmetry in an anatomical structure .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal to modulate cytoskeletal elements and control cell polarity that contributes to axis elongation .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
catalysis of the phosphorylation of an amino acid residue in a protein ,  usually according to the reaction: a protein  +  atp = a phosphoprotein  +  adp .
catalysis of the reactions: atp  +  protein serine = adp  +  protein serine phosphate ,  and atp  +  protein threonine = adp  +  protein threonine phosphate .
catalysis of the reaction: protein  +  atp = protein phosphate  +  adp .
catalysis of the reaction: ribosomal protein s6  +  atp = ribosomal protein s6 phosphate  +  atp .
catalysis of the reaction: retinol  +  nad +  = retinal  +  nadh  +  h +  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
a membrane - bounded organelle of in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
a filamentous structure formed of a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
specialized protrusion of a cell composed of microtubules and serving a role in intercellular signaling .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of dna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
the synthesis of rna from a dna template by rna polymerase ii  ( rnap ii )  ,  originating at an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
the addition of an acetyl group to a protein amino acid .
the addition of an acetyl group to a non - terminal amino acid in a protein .
the addition of a methyl group to a protein amino acid .
the hydrolysis of proteins into smaller polypeptides and / or amino acids by cleavage of their peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the formation of either of the compounds secreted by the thyroid gland ,  mainly thyroxine and triiodothyronine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of cations ,  atoms or small molecules with a net positive charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of calcium  ( ca )  ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a microtubule - based process that results in the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a eukaryotic cell during dna segregation and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle during a meiotic cell cycle in males .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
a cell cycle process that occurs as part of the male meiotic cell cycle and results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell to produce two daughter cells .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the male germline .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in a tissue ,  such that they all orient to similar coordinates .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
a series of molecular signals initiated by activation of a receptor on the surface of a cell .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  where the receptor possesses catalytic activity or is closely associated with an enzyme such as a protein kinase ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where the receptor possesses tyrosine kinase activity ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where the receptor possesses serine / threonine kinase activity ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
an intracellular protein kinase cascade containing at least a jnk  ( a mapk )  ,  a jnkk  ( a mapkk )  and a jun3k  ( a map3k )  .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism .
the developmental process by which male germ line stem cells self renew or give rise to successive cell types resulting in the development of a spermatozoa .
the mitotic divisions of the primary spermatogonial cell  ( a primordial male germ cell )  to form secondary spermatogonia  ( primary spermatocytes )  .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
the establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to the left and right halves .
a complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within an organism to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the ectoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
de novo generation of a long process of a neuron ,  including the terminal branched region .
the chemotaxis process that directs the migration of an axon growth cone to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the endoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mesoderm over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the heart over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the establishment of the sex of an organism by physical differentiation .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating ,  or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the pairwise union of individuals for the purpose of sexual reproduction ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the behavior of an organism for the purpose of attracting sexual partners .
the specific movement from place to place of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
behavior associated with the intake of food .
the behavior of an organism in response to a visual stimulus .
the behavior of an organism pertaining to movement of the eyes and of objects in the visual field ,  as in nystagmus .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of chemicals .
behavior that is dependent upon the sensation of a mechanical stimulus .
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the addition of an alkyl group to a protein amino acid .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the insulin receptor binding to insulin .
any process that modulates the size of a cell .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the series of events in which an endogenous stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo over time ,  from zygote formation until the end of the embryonic life stage .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of a pattern along a line or around a point .
the establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism such that a similar arrangement in form and relationship of parts around a common axis ,  or around each side of a plane is created .
the establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to a single longitudinal plane .
morphogenesis of an animal organ .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the proximal / distal axis .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the anterior / posterior axis .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the dorsal / ventral axis .
the regionalization process in which specific areas of cell differentiation are determined along the anterior - posterior axis .
the regionalization process in which the areas along the dorsal / ventral axis are established that will lead to differences in cell differentiation .
the regionalization process in which specific areas of cell differentiation are determined along a proximal / distal axis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of gastrulation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the levels of hormone within an organism or a tissue .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of metal ion transport .
the movement of organelles or other particles from one location in the cell to another along microtubules ,  driven by motor activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
the formation of the neural tube from an epithelial cell sheet  ( the neuroepithelium or neural plate )  .
the process in which the neural plate is shaped by the intrinsic movement of the epidermal and neural plate regions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of somitogenesis .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of actin and associated proteins .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in cell state .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the process in which the anatomical structures of embryonic epithelia are generated and organized .
the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell from one site to a destination guided by molecular cues .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
the alteration of dna or protein in chromatin by the covalent addition or removal of chemical groups .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a histone protein .
the modification of histones by addition of methyl groups .
the modification of histones by addition of phosphate groups .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group act as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad +  or nadp .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to an alcohol group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a nucleotidyl group to a reactant .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the alteration of an amino acid residue in a peptide .
the modification of peptidyl - lysine .
the addition of an acetyl group to a non - terminal lysine residue in a protein .
the acetylation of peptidyl - lysine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neural tube over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process of expansion of cell numbers in the neural plate due to cell division of progenitor cells preferentially in the rostrocaudal direction ,  resulting in the elongation of the tissue .
the process of directed cell movement in the neural plate resulting in tissue elongation via intercalation of adjacent cells in an epithelial sheet at the midline ,  leading to narrowing and lengthening of the neural plate .
generation of cells within the nervous system .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
a process in which the transfer of one or more phosphate groups to a substrate transmits a signal to the phosphorylated substrate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression as a consequence of a process in which a signal is released and / or conveyed from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the directed movement of metal ions ,  any metal ion with an electric charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
movement of organelles or other particles along actin filaments ,  or sliding of actin filaments past each other ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of the wnt signal transduction pathway .
a small subcellular vesicle ,  surrounded by a membrane ,  that is formed from the golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signal transduction .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron .
formation of myofibrils ,  the repeating units of striated muscle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any bmp receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bmp signaling pathway activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  direction or extent of axon extension .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
the directed movement of substances along cytoskeletal fibers such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epithelial cell ,  any of the cells making up an epithelium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the notochord over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the pancreas over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the endocrine pancreas over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a microtubule organizing center ,  a structure from which microtubules grow .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures containing both actin and myosin or paramyosin .
electron - dense organelle with a granular internal matrix ;  contains proteins destined to be secreted .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
a series of molecular signals in which a stress - activated protein kinase  ( sapk )  cascade relays one or more of the signals .
the regrowth of a lost or destroyed body part ,  such as an organ or tissue .
the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites in response to their loss or damage .
the regrowth of axons following their loss or damage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron projection over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
a vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a ciliary basal body ,  a short cylindrical array of microtubules and associated proteins found at the base of a eukaryotic cilium  ( also called flagellum )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
the process in which a methyl group is covalently attached to a molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell ,  and its separation into two daughter cells .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
a process that modulates the size of a cellular component .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the specification ,  formation or maintenance of anisotropic intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to an activin receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising actin filaments and their associated proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the actin cytoskeleton .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a cell part are generated and organized .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
a cell cycle process that results in the division of the cytoplasm of a cell after meiosis ,  resulting in the separation of the original cell into two daughter cells .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a multicellular organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of rna from ribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template ,  via extension of the 3' - end .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of the physical structure of eukaryotic chromatin that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of dna - dependent transcription .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryonic heart tube over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the assembly and organization of an axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance polarization of a cell's architecture along its apical / basal axis so that the apical and basal regions of the cell have different membrane ,  extracellular matrix and sub - membrane cellular components .
the specification and formation of the polarity of a cell along its apical / basal axis .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an anatomical structure through which gases and / or liquids flow .
 \ "a behavior that occurs predominantly or only ,  in individuals that are part of a group . \ "  [ wikipedia:social_behavior ] 
the specific behavior of an organism during the emergence from an egg shell .
the emergence of an immature organism from a protective structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized .
the increase in size or mass of an organ .
progression of the endocrine system over time ,  from its formation to a mature structure .
the regionalization process that divides an organism or part of an organism into a series of semi - repetitive parts ,  or segments ,  often arranged along a longitudinal axis .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tube over time ,  from its initial formation to a mature structure .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via effectors other than beta - catenin .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium that contributes to cilium assembly .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of an enteroendocrine cell .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
the response to external or internal stimuli that results in the locomotory process of swimming .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a nodal protein to an activin receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a nodal protein to an activin receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the establishment of an organism's body plan or part of an organism with respect to the left and right halves .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
any process that modulates the rate of growth of all or part of an organism .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division ,  the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells ,  one or more of which usually function as gametes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
the behavior of an organism in response to an odor .
the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium ,  mediated by motor proteins .
the migration of individual cells within the blastocyst to help establish the multi - layered body plan of the organism  ( gastrulation )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an embryonic epithelium ,  such that they all orient to similar coordinates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the compounds secreted by the thyroid gland ,  largely thyroxine and triiodothyronine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a muscle cell .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryo over time ,  from zygote formation through a stage including a notochord and neural tube until birth or egg hatching .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a cysteine - type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the activity of a cysteine - type endopeptidase involved in apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the map kinase  ( mapk )  cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapk cascade .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the covalent attachment of a methyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the accumulation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells .
the aggregation of coloring matter in a particular location in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  occurring in response to some external stimulus .
the aggregation of coloring matter in a particular location in a tissue ,  occurring in response to an external stimulus .
a series of reactions ,  mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase b  ( also called akt )  ,  which occurs as a result of a single trigger reaction or compound .
the addition of an acyl group ,  any group or radical of the form rco -  where r is an organic group ,  to a protein amino acid .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription that contributes to the specification of the anterior / posterior axis .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in positive regulation of wound healing .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell contributing to the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the dorsal / ventral axis .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in the positive regulation of apoptotic process .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes that contributes to modulating the rate or frequency of cell proliferation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
the myofibril assembly process that results in the organization of muscle actomyosin into sarcomeres .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a cilium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin receptor signaling .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin receptor signaling .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within the golgi apparatus ,  mediated by vesicles .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes during transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus ;  mediated by the addition of specific coat proteins ,  including copi and copii proteins and clathrin ,  to the membrane during vesicle formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or destination of vesicle - mediated transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus .
generation of the male gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a female gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in the behavior of an organism as a result of a pain stimulus .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the mesoderm are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
morphogenesis ,  during the embryonic phase ,  of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
development ,  taking place during the embryonic phase ,  of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the notochord are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the growth of a cell ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from one condition to another .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals from one or more parents ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a neuron over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structures of a neuron are generated and organized .
long distance growth of a single axon process involved in cellular development .
long distance growth of a single axon process involved in regeneration of the neuron .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon regeneration .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of axon regeneration .
the process involved in sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in regeneration .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of axon extension involved in regeneration .
the process in which nerve cells are generated .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tissue are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a neuron projection are generated and organized .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
the long distance growth of a single cell process ,  that is involved in the migration of an axon growth cone ,  where the migration is directed to a specific target site by a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a cell projection are generated and organized .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells in the nervous system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis ,  the generation of an axon ,  the long process of a neuron .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:0050795 ] 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription as part of a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a striated muscle cell ;  striated muscle fibers are divided by transverse bands into striations ,  and cardiac and voluntary muscle are types of striated muscle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle ,  the array of microtubules and associated molecules that serves to move duplicated chromosomes apart .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle ,  in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
a series of molecular signals in which a stress - activated map kinase cascade relays one or more of the signals ;  map kinase cascades involve at least three protein kinase activities and culminate in the phosphorylation and activation of a map kinase .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process in which a vesicle or vesicles are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
the directed movement of a vesicle to a specific location .
the directed movement of an organelle to a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process in which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase b signaling ,  a series of reactions mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase b .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase b signaling ,  a series of reactions mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase b .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a muscle cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a striated muscle cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a metabolic process that results in the removal or addition of one or more electrons to or from a substance ,  with or without the concomitant removal or addition of a proton or protons .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis usually resulting in the formation of the three primary germ layers ,  ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis contributing to the lengthening of the axis of an organism .
the morphogenetic process in which an epithelium narrows along one axis and lengthens in a perpendicular axis contribution to the shaping of an organ .
the multicellular organismal process in which the heart decreases in volume in a characteristic way to propel blood through the body .
the reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oviduct over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal via downstream effectors including c - jun n - terminal kinase  ( jnk )  to modulate cytoskeletal elements and control cell polarity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle during a mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the behavior associated with the intake of food .
the assembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of myofibril assembly by organization of muscle actomyosin into sarcomeres .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of myofibril assembly by organization of muscle actomyosin into sarcomeres .
the actin filament - based movement by which cytoplasmic actin filaments slide past one another resulting in a contraction that propels the cell from one place to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a pathway restricted smad protein .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
the increase in size or mass of the heart .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of heart growth .
any process that increases the rate or extent of heart growth .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell projection assembly .
the increase in size or mass of an anatomical structure that contributes to the structure attaining its shape .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an anatomical structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized from an epithelium .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an anatomical structure by sealing the edges of an epithelial fold .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of microtubule - based movement ,  the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules and other particles along microtubules ,  mediated by motor proteins .
a series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of any member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family binding to a cell surface receptor that results in an increase in the rate ,  frequency or extent of a wnt signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin ,  the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
the pattern specification process that results in the subdivision of the left / right axis in space to define an area or volume in which specific patterns of cell differentiation will take place or in which cells interpret a specific environment .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the progression of the heart over time ,  from its initial formation ,  to the mature organ .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the progression of a somite from its initial formation to the mature structure .
the progression of a muscle structure over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
the specification and formation of monopolar intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of a bipolar intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a receptor on the surface of a cell to a physiological ligand ,  which contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a member of the bmp  ( bone morphogenetic protein )  family to a receptor on the surface of a target cell ,  which contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands and contributing to the progression of the heart over time .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
any cellular process that results in the specification ,  formation or maintenance of monopolar intracellular organization or cell growth patterns .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via effectors other than beta - catenin and contributing to the progression of the heart over time .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules that contributes to the shaping of the heart .
any process that modulates the extent of cell adhesion contributing to the shaping of the heart .
the multiplication or reproduction of neural precursor cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
determination of the asymmetric location of the heart with respect to the left and right halves of the organism .
any process that modulates the extent of cell growth .
the progression of the reproductive system over time from its formation to the mature structure .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cilium .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cilium .
the progression of an axon over time .
a cytokinesis that involves the function of a set of proteins that are part of the microfilament or microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds formed between l - amino acids .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
a process of chromosome organization that is involved in a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
the actin filament - based process in which cytoplasmic actin filaments slide past one another resulting in contraction of all or part of the cell body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via a stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection regeneration ,  the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites following their loss or damage .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron projection regeneration ,  the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites following their loss or damage .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to an amino acid residue in the c - terminal domain of rna polymerase ii .
the directed movement of divalent metal cations ,  any metal ion with a  + 2 electric charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle .
the establishment ,  maintenance and elaboration of the left / right axis .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the behavior in which an organism produces sounds by a mechanism involving its respiratory system .
the developmental process in which an organism emerges from a surrounding protective structure such as an egg or pupa case .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
the addition of an acetyl group to the lysine 40 residue of alpha - tubulin .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an epithelial tube .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the circulatory system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the directed movement of inorganic cations with a valency of two into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to stress .
any process that modulates the size of an anatomical structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands resulting in an increase in the rate or frequency of a mapkkk cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor serine / threonine kinase binding to its physiological ligand .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor serine / threonine kinase binding to its physiological ligand .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the separation of a single continuous membrane into two membranes .
the specification and formation of anisotropic intracellular organization of an epithelial cell .
the specification and formation of the polarity of an epithelial cell along the plane of the epithelial tissue .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the establishment of planar polarity ,  the coordinated organization of groups of cells in a tissue ,  such that they all orient to similar coordinates .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins and contributes to the establishment of planar polarity .
coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an epithelium that contributes to the closure of the neural tube .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the establishment of planar polarity involved in neural tube closure ,  the coordinated organization of groups of cells in the plane of an epithelium that contributes to the closure of the neural tube .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where activated receptors signal via downstream effectors that modulates the establishment of planar polarity contributing to neural tube closure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the microtubule spindle .
the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a fibroblast growth factor receptor binding to one of its physiological ligands that contributes to somitogenesis .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in cell state that contributes to somitogenesis .
the developmental growth that results in the elongation of the rostral - caudal axis that contributes to somitogenesis .
the morphogenetic process in which a presomitic mesoderm narrows along the left - right axis and lengthens in the rostral - caudal axis contributing to somitogenesis .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that contributes to somitogenic axis elongation .
the orderly movement of a presomitic mesoderm cell that contributes to somitogenic axis elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that contributes to somitogenic axis elongation .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location in a cell that contributes to the establishment of planar polarity .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin ,  the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form the spindle that contributes to the process of meiosis .
mitotic bipolar spindle assembly begins with spindle microtubule nucleation from the separated spindle pole body ,  includes spindle elongation during prometaphase ,  and is complete when all kinetochores are stably attached the spindle ,  and the spindle assembly checkpoint is satisfied .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that starts the inactive process of meiosis .
all of the contents of a cilium ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the cilium .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal ,  alpha - peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile ,  and contributing to the apoptotic process .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a supramolecular fiber ,  a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
the process in which the migration of a neuron projection is directed to a specific target site in response to a combination of attractive and repulsive cues .
the cellular synthesis of rna on a template of nucleic acid  ( dna or rna )  .
any vesicle that is part of the intracellular region .
the process in which vesicles formed at the trans - golgi network are directed to the plasma membrane surrounding the base of the cilium ,  including the ciliary pocket ,  mediated by molecules at the vesicle membrane and target membrane surfaces .
catalysis of the reaction: nucleoside triphosphate  +  rna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  rna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of rna from ribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
the directed movement of a protein along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
a cellular component that consists of an indeterminate number of proteins or macromolecular complexes ,  organized into a regular ,  higher - order structure such as a polymer ,  sheet ,  network or a fiber .
a polymeric supramolecular structure .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of proteins .
a cytoplasmic ,  membrane bound vesicle that is capable of fusing to the plasma membrane to release its contents into the extracellular space .
a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
a component of the cytoskeleton consisting of a homo or heteropolymeric fiber constructed from an indeterminate number of protein subunits .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures containing both actin and myosin or paramyosin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of plasma membrane bounded cell projections .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a plasma membrane bounded prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection are generated and organized .
one of the two nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a mitotic cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
catalytic activity that acts to modify a protein .
catalytic activity that acts to modify rna .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another ,  medaited by a wnt family protein ligand .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in determination of left / right symmetry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nodal signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a nodal signaling pathway ,  where the nodal signaling pathway is involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart looping .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart looping .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter that contributes to the development of the heart over time .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in heart development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in cellular response to chemical stimulus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic spindle assembly .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in spermatogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any neuron projection extension that is involved in neuron projection guidance .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any apoptotic process that is involved in anatomical structure development .
any microtubule cytoskeleton organization that is involved in mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of supramolecular fiber organization .
the disaggregation of an organelle into its constituent components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
a process that is part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament - based movement .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of actin filament - based movement .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein folding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein folding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any mapk cascade that is involved in axon regeneration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
any convergent extension that is involved in notochord morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in somitogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in somitogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in notochord morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in notochord morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in axon regeneration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in axon regeneration .
any wnt signaling pathway ,  planar cell polarity pathway that is involved in axon guidance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
any cell surface receptor signaling pathway that is involved in cell - cell signaling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a ciliary transition zone .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in positive regulation of cell growth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mechanosensory behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
long distance growth of a single neuron projection involved in cellular development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in axis elongation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - canonical wnt signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - canonical wnt - activated signaling pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral axis specification .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral axis specification .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway ,  planar cell polarity pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway ,  planar cell polarity pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment or maintenance of bipolar cell polarity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of cell polarity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in neural tube closure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural precursor cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural precursor cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastrulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of thyroid hormone generation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of thyroid hormone generation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
 \ "behavior related to the complex psychophysiological experience of an individual's state of mind as interacting with biochemical  ( internal )  and environmental  ( external )  influences . \ "  [ wikipedia:emotions ] 
 \ "behavior related to defence against predation or predators . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the tendency of an organism to maintain internal equilibrium . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "cognitive perception of a sensation by any of the five senses  -  -  vision ,  touch ,  smell ,  taste ,  and hearing . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the action ,  reaction ,  or performance of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:go \  \ :0007610 ] 
 \ "behavior related to the awareness of body balance and movement . \ "  [ mbp:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the sensations arising from the skin and from the muscles ,  tendons ,  and joints . \ "  [ obp:gvg ] 
 \ "intentionally or habitually assumed arrangement of the body and its limbs . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "intentionally or habitually assumed arrangement of the body and its limbs in inactivity . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to how the body reacts to a stressor  (  a stimulus that causes stress )  ,  real or imagined . \ "  [ wikipedia:stress_ ( biological )  ] 
 \ "behaviour related to cognitive processes . \ "  [ nbo:jh ] 
 \ "behavior related to the activity seen in animals exposed to adverse stimuli ,  in which the tendency to act defensively is stronger than the tendency to attack . \ "  [ web:http \  \ : /  / www .britannica .com / ebchecked / topic / 45916 / avoidance - behavior ] 
 \ "behavior related to the activity seen in animals exposed to potential danger in which they exhibit the tendency to act defensively . \ "  [ nbo:sd ] 
a behavior associated with the gathering of organisms together in some locality .
a type of aggregation behavior in which organisms  ( especially fish or tadpoles )  come together in an interactive way ,  aware of the other members of the group as shown by the way they adjust their behavior .
a type of shoaling behavior in which organisms  ( especially fish or tadpoles )  are tightly organized and move in the same direction in a coordinated manner .
a behavior in which action is rapidly taken by an organism in response to possible predation ,  examples of which include camouflage ,  freezing behavior ,  and fleeing .
a behavior involving an organism  ( especially fish or tadpoles )  breathing at or near the surface of water where the concentration of dissolved oxygen is highest .
a behavior involving avoidance of or escape from approaching visual stimuli ,  threats ,  or objects which are on a collision course .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality that exists by virtue of being a particular point in the time of a cycle .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical dimension of extension .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a morphological quality pertaining to the degree to which an object contains an opening ,  aperture ,  orifice or vent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a morphologic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative size ,  organization and distribution of its surface elements or the representation or invention of the appearance of its surface ;  visual and tactile surface characteristics .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a mobility quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curled or wound  ( especially in concentric rings or spirals )  .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a repeatable or predictable placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a height which is relatively low .
a height which is relatively high .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a width which is relatively small .
a width which is relatively large .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording not completed blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording unobstructed passage or view .
a pattern where all the repeated elements are oriented in the same direction .
an anterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally anterior structures .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more angle ( s )  in its length .
a dorsalized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally dorsal structures .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being upright in position or posture .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being reversed in position ,  order ,  or condition .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in abnormal position .
a posterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally posterior structures .
a ventralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing only what are normally ventral structures .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being merged with another entity .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted during formation .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's undergoing unprogrammed cell death .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being affected by loss of the ability to move a body part .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance from one side of an object to another side which is opposite .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking organisation .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter y .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to varying or changing .
a 2 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's two dimensional extent .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes through the center of a circle and whose endpoints are on the circular boundary .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality that arises by virtue of whether the bearer's disposition to differentiate into one or more mature cell types .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
an emergent molecular quality that arises by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exhibit molecular attraction to another entity in contact .
a quality of a single process which describes the growth of an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits an excessive accumulation of extracellular fluid .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the back or upper surface of an organism .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the abdomen of an organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in two copies .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a growth quality of a process inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's reduced or increased growth .
a monadic quality of continuant inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being intricate and compounded .
a complexity quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having few parts or being complicated or compound .
a phase which starts later than natural start point .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being spread out or scattered about or divided up .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being made wider or larger in all dimensions .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a curvature which is relatively high .
a curvature which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted in form .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary and outwards in relation to the physical space occupied by another entity .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the side .
a distribution which is relatively high .
a distribution which is relatively low .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in two dimensions .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
a diameter which is relatively large .
a diameter which is relatively small .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a heterochronic growth quality inhering in an organism ,  structure ,  or group of organisms by virtue of the bearer's increased growth .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of some of it's members' ability to survive .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into two branches .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided or broken up into parts or divisions .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being wound in a continuous series of loops .
a coiling which is relatively high .
a coiling which is relatively low .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting disturbance of its smoothness or regularity .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being compact or dense in arrangement .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three angles .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter u .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into three branches .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the abdomen of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the front of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the rear of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the middle of an organism .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of a local accumulation of fluid underneath the surface of the bearer .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits size variation or change .
a variability of size which is relatively low .
a variability of size which is relatively high .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's in which bundles of aligned anatomical fibers have become separated .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter's disposition the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer forms a bundle of anatomical fibers ,  as of muscle or nerve .
a growth quality of occurrent in which the growth of an organism ,  structure or group of organisms does not occur .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a cone  ( a 3 - d shape with a round cross section that tapers )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being unseparated into parts or divisions .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting deterioration of its structure .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
an area which is relatively high .
an area which is relatively low .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement .
having extra or fewer parts .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its stable specialization to a particular cell type .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having not yet acquired a special structure of function .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its lacking most of the cellular characteristics which would allow it to be fully differentiated .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in more than two copies .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting a knot - like mass .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's delay to complete the closure of the opening of an anatomical entity .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking of substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having substances produced by living organisms that have a color resulting from selective color absorption .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is relatively high .
a degree of pigmentation quality that is relative low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being partially upright in position or posture .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being arranged in a systematic fashion .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a mobility which is relative high .
a mobility which is relative low .
branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of increasing the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
absence of a tissue or organ due to failure to develop .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
consisting of segments or similar parts arranged in a longitudinal series .
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting molecular attraction to another entity in contact .
a adhesivity which is relatively high .
a adhesivity which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably lower than its width .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned away from the axis of an organism .
an orientation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer having a slanting direction or position : neither perpendicular nor parallel .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking parts or having a reduced form compared to fully formed entities .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally anterior structures and missing some or all of what are normally posterior structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally dorsal structures and missing some or all of what are normally ventral structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally posterior structures and missing some or all of what are normally anterior structures .
a malformed quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally ventral structures and missing some or all of what are normally dorsal structures .
an anterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally anterior structures and missing some but not all of what are normally posterior structures .
a dorsalized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally dorsal structures and missing some but not all of what are normally ventral structures .
a posterioralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally posterior structures and missing some but not all of what are normally anterior structures .
a ventralized quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gross morphology containing what are normally ventral structures and missing some but not all of what are normally dorsal structures .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
an entity that is either an individual member of xenopus or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of xenopus .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
surface structure that has an important role in tadpole locomotion .
part of the fin consisting of flattened epidermal cells elevated into a keel - like structure .
part of the fin consisting of a supporting core of mesenchyme and extracellular matrix .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory epithelium of the nasal cavity .
the saccular invagination of ectoderm from which the vertebrate inner ear develops .
a surface structure consisting of a set of membranes that cover and protect the eye .
transparent ,  biconvex structure in the eye that ,  along with the cornea ,  helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
sensory membrane that lines the posterior chamber of the eye and functions as the immediate instrument of vision by receiving the image formed by the lens and converting it into chemical and nervous signals which reach the brain by way of the optic nerve .
organ that is a component of the central nervous system and is responsible for the coordination and control of bodily activities and the interpretation of information from the senses .
the part of the brain that is the anterior of its three primary divisions and that includes the telencephalon and diencephalon .
part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres .
the more posterior and ventral of two forebrain neuromeres ,  the other being the telencephalon ;  major derivatives are the eye vescile ,  the brain pretectal region ,  the thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  and epithalamus  ( including the habenula and epiphysis )  .
middle part of the brain composed of the optic tectum and penducular region .
the part of the brain that is the posterior of its three primary divisions .
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
an endocrine gland ,  located ventral to the diencephalon ,  that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands .
portion of tissue that is the precursor to the gonads .
elongated ,  approximately cylindrical part of the central nervous system that lies in the vertebral canal and from which the spinal nerves emerge .
proliferative region that is part of the ventricular system of the brain .
organizing center located at the dorsal midline of the neural tube that influences the development of the nervous system ,  controlling the specification and differentiation of dorsal neuronal cell types .
surface structure that consists of the external membranous integument of the animal .
the most anterior of the migrating cranial neural crest streams ,  running along the posterior edge of the eye primordium ,  and in later stages ,  below the eye and to the border of the cement gland .
the second most anterior of the migrating cranial neural crests streams ,  it lays between the mandibular and anterior branchial crest streams .
the most posterior segments of the population of migratory cells of the cranial neural crest ,  contributing to the branchial arches 3 and 4 .
ganglion that is located in the head .
the outer epithelial layer of the external integument of the body that is derived from the primative or embryonic ectoderm .
the outermost layer of the epidermis ,  the multilayered epithelium derived from the ectoderm .
the membrane enveloping the egg or oocyte ,  lying immediately outside the plasmalemma .
cell type that has motile cilia and populates the skin of the embryo ,  arranged in the surface layer of the non - neural ectoderm in an ordered distribution .
an anterior thickening of the sensorial layer of ectoderm ,  just above the cement gland .
a simple mucus - secreting structure that is positioned at the front of the embryo ,  attaches the newly hatched embryo to a support before the hatchling can swim well or feed ,  and marks the anterior - most dorsal ectoderm .
a y - shaped array of unicelluar glands on the top of the head ,  the open end of which faces anteriorly ,  that secrete an enzyme that dissolves or weakens the egg jelly and facilitates hatching .
cell resulting from the fusion of male and female gametes at fertilization .
ectodermal roof of the blastocoel .
sensorial layer of blastocoel roof ectoderm .
superficial layer of blastocoel roof ectoderm .
the anterior - most third of the embryo ,  formed from the development of the head outgrowth at nf stage 21 .
a distinct layer of the epidermal cells beneath the outermost layer of epidermis ,  the multilayered epithelium derived from the ectoderm .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
superficial neuroectoderm layer consisting of horizontally flattened ,  pigmented cells .
deep neuroectoderm layer consisting of densely packed ,  cylindrical ,  unpigmented cells .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
region of the neural plate overlying the notochord .
a group of ectoderm cells that delaminate from the area between the neuroectoderm / non - neural ectoderm domains .
the thickening of the epithelial layer of the ectoderm ,  with corresponding dark pigmentation ,  on the anterior dorso - ventral surface of the embryo .
primary germ layer that is the middle of the embryo's germ layers .
principal unpaired ,  median artery of the trunk ,  extending into the tail as the caudal artery .
the paired main vein ,  departing from the sinus venous ,  the fused heart primordium ,  it runs posteriorly down length of the embryo .
the mesoderm of the head .
the anatomical region of the body posterior to the head and anterior to the tail .
a longitudinal flexible rod of cells that in the embryo forms the supporting axis of the body .
transient structure that lies immediately ventral to the notochord in the embryo ,  likely required for the formation of the dorsal aorta .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
any of the approximately 45 bilaterally paired blocks of mesoderm cells ,  lying on either side of the notochord and neural tube ,  and forming sequentially starting at the head during development of the embryo .
any of the ciliated tubules that collect the glomeral filtrate ,  passing it through to the pronephric tubules .
duct that drains urine from the pronephros and connects it to the cloaca .
a myogenic muscular organ found in the cardiovascular system .
cardiac muscle constituting the middle layer of the heart .
part of the heart composed of thin serous membrane and endothelial tissue ,  that lines the interior of the heart .
region located on the ventral surface of the developing embryo that is a site of hematopoiesis and that is analogous to the yolk sac blood islands of higher vertebrates .
region of intermediate pigmentation between the pigmented animal hemisphere and the unpigmented vegetal hemisphere of the egg .
embryonic tissue region that will make the ventral mesoderm .
region of the marginal zone extending from the ventral to lateral surface .
region of the marginal zone extending from the dorsal to lateral surface .
marginal zone that is a key embryonic tissue region of the early gastrula stage embryo and that houses the spemann - mangold organizer .
portion of the marginal zone of the embryo that turns inside the embryo during involution .
deep layers of the imz consisting of prospective migrating mesodermal cells  ( which will migrate into the interior and form the leading edge of the mesodermal mantle )  and prospective converging and extending mesoderm .
layer of prospective mesoderm in the imz that will form the roof of the archenteron .
cell type that is first to migrate inwards at the blastopore during gastrulation .
the edge of the blastopore .
mesodermal structure that lies anterior to the notochord and gives rise to head mesoderm .
the region from which the forelimb develops ,  first recognizable at nf stage 48 ,  and distinct by nf stage 49 .
the region from which the hindlimb develops ,  first recognizable as a slight concentration of mesenchymal cells dorsal and lateral to the anal tube at nf stage 43 .
embryonic structure that develops around the closed blastopore .
dorsal mesoderm that has grown and curled inward during gastrulation .
ventral mesoderm that has grown and curled inward during gastrulation .
mesoderm layer between somite and lateral plate .
the region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located .
the anatomical region of the body posterior to the tail .
dorsal part of the blastopore lip ,  which forms as a result of the contraction of bottle cells .
ventral part of the blastopore lip ,  which forms as a result of the contraction of bottle cells .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the endoderm of the head .
the cavity of the gastrula forming a primitive gut .
the layer of cells forming the ventral surface of the archenteron space of the embryo .
a transient ciliated epithelium that arises from the involuting superficial mesoderm ,  forming the dorsal surface of the archenteron space of the embryo .
sensory system that has as it parts the sense organs that detect vibrations carried through water ,  develops during late tailbud stage ,  and persists in the adult bearing elaborate dorsal and ventral components .
one of a series of bony or cartilaginous arches that develop in the walls of the mouth cavity and pharynx of the embryo .
the first of the series of bony or cartilaginous arches that develop in the walls of the mouth cavity and pharynx of the embryo .
the second of the series of bony or cartilaginous arches that develop in the walls of the mouth cavity and pharynx of the embryo .
structures that develop from the pharyngeal arches .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
an out - pocket of thickened ventral foregut epithelium adjacent to the developing heart .
first of the pharyngeal  ( endodermal )  evaginations between the visceral arches from which the eustachian tube is derived ;  pouches 2 - 4 open as gill slits .
middle subdivision of the digestive tract .
posterior subdivision of the digestive tract .
the space enclosed by the walls of the pharynx .
tissue that is a temporary extension of the embryonic gut caudal to the cloaca .
rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo .
the anterior limit of the neurenteric canal ,  which connects the post - anal gut with the central canal of the spinal chord .
structure formed by the ventral movement of the proctodeum anlage ,  which results in the shifting of the circumblastoral collar lateral walls to the posterior end of the embryo .
portion of tissue that consists of the precursors of the pronephric glomus or glomerulus ;  derived from the medial portion of the pronephric intermediate mesoderm .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
anatomical entity that comprises the animal in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the heart through the body .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs involved in breathing in respiration  ( breathing )  .
an elongated tube that carries air to and from the lungs .
either of two organs that allow gas exchange absorbing oxygen from inhaled air and releasing carbon dioxide with exhaled air .
the primary respiration organ in some species of tadpoles ,  whose function is the extraction of oxygen from water and the excretion of carbon dioxide .
a passage of airway in the respiratory tract that conducts air into the lungs .
anatomical system that consists of the blood and blood forming tissues .
flexible tissue found in the hollow interior of bones .
the fluid that circulates in the heart ,  arteries ,  capillaries ,  and veins carrying nourishment and oxygen to and bringing away waste products from all parts of the animal .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the cavity of the mouth ,  bounded by the jaw bones and associated structures .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
internal organ that is the dilated portion of the alimentary tract situated between the esophagus and the beginning of the duodenum .
portion of the alimentary canal bounded anteriorly by the pyloric sphincter and posteriorly by the cloacal sphincter .
a part of the alimentary system and principal organ of digestion ,  comprising the duodenum and ileum and characterized by longitudinal folds .
a short ,  wide tube that is part of the alimentary system and comprises the colon and rectum and empties into the cloaca .
anatomical system comprising the liver ,  gall bladder ,  and associated ducts .
organ that secretes bile and participates in formation of certain blood proteins .
duct that carries bile from the liver to the small intestine .
a small organ of the alimentary system that aids mainly in fat digestion ,  and concentrates bile that is produced by the liver .
internal gland organ with distinct tissues with different endocrine and exocrine functions .
pancreatic tissue composed of acinar epithelial cells and ductal epithelium that manufacture the proteolytic enzymes and bicarbonate required for digestion .
a double layer of tissue composed of peritoneum that attaches the visceral organs to the body wall .
serous membrane that forms the lining of the abdominal cavity or the coelom .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
a visceral organ which provides osmoregulation and waste excretion for tadpoles through adult stages in xenopus .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine .
anatomical structure consisting of a long narrow duct that carries urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder .
a tuft of capillaries found in a bowman's capsule in which waste products are filtered from the blood and urine formation is initiated .
any of the excretory units of the mesonephros ,  which connect to the mesonephric collecting duct .
duct that connects to the mesonephric nephrons and collects filtrate .
anatomical structure consisting of a tube carries urine from the urinary bladder to the outside of the body .
the organ that collects urine excreted by the kidneys before disposal by urination .
anatomical system comprising the organs of the male reproductive system .
anatomical system comprising the organs of the female reproductive system .
reproductive organ that produces and releases sperm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
structure that is made up of islet cells that produce insulin ,  glucagon ,  and somatostatin .
an unpaired glandular organ subdivision attached on the midline near the posterior and habenular commissures of the epithalamus .
a two - lobed endocrine gland ,  located next to the trachea ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
either of a pair of complex endocrine organs near the anterior medial border of the kidney consisting of a mesodermal cortex that produces glucocorticoid ,  mineralocorticoid ,  and androgenic hormones and an ectodermal medulla that produces epinephrine and norepinephrine .
situated along the perimeter of the adrenal gland ,  the adrenal cortex mediates the stress response through the production of mineralocorticoids and glucocorticoids ,  including aldosterone and cortisol respectively .
part of the adrenal gland ,  located at the center of the gland and surrounded by the adrenal cortex .
an organ specialized for secretion of parathyroid hormone .
anatomical system that provides locomotion and physical support to the organism .
the hard form of connective tissue that constitutes the majority of the skeleton .
a type of dense connective tissue that is composed of specialized cells ,  chondrocytes ,  that produce a large amount of extracellular matrix .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent bones or cartilages ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue .
a body tissue consisting of long cells that contract when stimulated and produce motion .
a fibrous ,  strong ,  connective tissue that connects muscle to bone .
a type of muscle used to create movement ,  by applying force to bones and joints .
involuntary muscle tissue consisting of uninucleate spindle - shaped fibers .
anatomical system that consists of the skin and its appendages .
anatomical system that has as its parts the brain and spinal cord ,  nerves ,  ganglia ,  and parts of the receptor organs and that receives and interprets stimuli and transmits impulses to the effector organs .
one of the two major divisions of the nervous system .
the organ of sight  ( visual apparatus )  ,  almost spherical in shape .
the transparent front part of the eye that ,  together with the lens ,  refracts light .
a general term for the whole eye ,  or eye ball ,  of an organism .
a clear mucous membrane consisting of cells and underlying basement membrane that covers the sclera and lines the inside of the eyelids .
the opaque ,  fibrous ,  protective ,  outer layer of the eye containing collagen and elastic fiber .
a membrane in the eye ,  responsible for controlling the amount of light reaching the retina .
circumferential tissue inside the eye composed of the ciliary muscle and ciliary processes .
lateral neurogenic placode region positioned dorsally to the epibranchial placodes ,  and that includes the lateral line placodes ,  the otic placode and the trigeminal placode .
cranial nerve that is continuous with the layer of nerve cells on the inner surface of the eye .
the combination of structures that form the ear and function to transmit vibrations and permit hearing .
a flattened ,  roughly circular cartilage derived from the extrastapes .
the air - filled cavity within the skull that lies between the outer ear and the inner ear .
labyrinthine anatomical cluster that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
structure consisting of the vestibule ,  lagena ,  and semicircular canal ,  cavities that are hollowed out of the substance of the bone ,  and lined by periosteum .
inner ear structure into which the semicircular ducts find their outlet .
a major structure of the inner ear ,  ventral to the utriculus .
a vestibular structure of the inner ear consisting of a ventral diverticulum off of the sacculus .
any of the three fluid - filled ducts that loop from the utriculus in the inner ear ,  and help detect movement and maintain balance .
the small ,  oval ,  bony chamber of the labyrinth .
pigmented ,  smaller blastomere of the animal  ( upper )  hemisphere of the cleaving embryo .
anatomical region that is pigmented  ( dark brown )  and tends to have the uppermost orientation ,  as it contains the blastocoel and cells that contain only small amounts of yolk .
any nerve outside the brain or spinal cord that connects with peripheral receptors or effectors .
a type of mesoderm that lies along the central axis ,  under the neural tube ,  and gives rise to the notochord .
the first appearance of the anatomical space that will become the blastocoel .
the dorsal surface of the blastocoel ,  the cavity of the blastula .
the opening of the archenteron to the exterior ,  marking the point of origin of the archenteron and the caudal end of the embryo .
a cluster of nervous tissue principally composed of neuronal cell bodies external to the central nervous system  ( cns )  .
type of ganglion that is a condensation of sensory neurons on the dorsal root of each spinal nerve .
either of the pair of ganglionated longitudinal cords of the sympathetic nervous system of which one is situated on each side of the spinal column .
the narrow tube connecting the middle ear with the pharynx ,  through which air flows to equalize pressure on either side of the tympanic membrane .
any of the three tiny bones of the inner ear  ( columella or stapes ,  the sacculus and the utriculus )  suspended in the otic capsule .
the part of the nervous system that consists of the brain and spinal cord ,  to which sensory impulses are transmitted and from which motor impulses pass out ,  and that supervises and coordinates the activity of the entire nervous system .
a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis .
an internal or external body part or prolongation that projects from ,  and is attached to ,  an organ or the main body of an organism .
somitic compartment that is a precursor of dermis ,  the cells of which become arranged in a single layer that blankets the myotome ,  possibly continuously  ( unsegmented )  across somites .
invagination of thickened epithelium near the hindbrain that gives rise to a spherically shaped ear vesicle ,  including precursors of the sensory epithelia of the inner ear and neurons of cranial nerve viii .
vegetal portion of the marginal zone of the embryo that turns inside the embryo during involution .
the ectodermal precursor of the trigeminal ganglion .
first trace of the future visual apparatus .
the evagination of neurectoderm ,  which has pinched off from the anterior neural keel ,  that precedes formation of the optic cup .
randomly dispersed fibrils organized into criss - crossing fascicles or bundles in the coelomic envelope of oocytes .
cell type that forms a layer within an ovarian follicle that surrounds the oocyte .
a monolayer of follicle cells surrounding the developing oocyte and forming adhesive contacts with the surrounding follicular epithelium .
the anterior part of the alimentary system ,  from the mouth and esophagus to the duodenum at the entrance of the bile duct .
a zone found in the cytoplasm of the egg cells that contains determinants that will give rise to the primordial germ cells .
the nucleus of the oocyte ,  it is enclosed in a nuclear envelope and contains neucleoplasm ,  in which the chromosomes and extranucleoli are embedded .
two migratory heart primordia that move ventrally during the course of neurulation ,  and whose fusion begins at the ventral midline at nf stage 16 .
the first part of the small intestine .
the final section of the small intestine .
the terminal portion of the large intestine .
the pancreatic duct and common bile duct together ,  which enter the descending duodenum .
a thickened portion of ectoderm that serves as the precursor to the lens .
vein that returns blood from the trunk and drains into the duct of cuvier via the pronephric sinus .
duct that drains the mesonephros and connects it to the ureter .
the last portion of the digestive system ,  it extracts water and salt from solid wastes before they are eliminated from the body .
the posterior opening that serves as the common opening for the intestinal ,  reproductive ,  and urinary tracts ,  closed by the cloacal sphincter .
a prominent mass in the cytoplasm of previtellogenic oocytes .
space that separates the thicker inner sheet of splanchnic mesoderm from the thinner outer somatic mesoderm .
second of the pharyngeal  ( endodermal )  evaginations between the visceral arches from which the eustachian tube is derived ;  pouches 2 - 4 open as gill slits .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove in the neural plate ,  directly above the notochord ,  which appears after neural fold formation .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
posterior segment of the neural tube ,  which develops into the hindbrain and spinal cord .
third of the pharyngeal  ( endodermal )  evaginations between the visceral arches from which the eustachian tube is derived ;  pouches 2 - 4 open as gill slits .
an anatomical space that is surrounded by a neural tube .
animal portion of the marginal zone of the embryo that spreads in front of the animal cap but does not involute during gastrulation .
fourth of the pharyngeal  ( endodermal )  evaginations between the visceral arches from which the eustachian tube is derived ;  pouches 2 - 4 open as gill slits .
fifth of the pharyngeal  ( endodermal )  evaginations between the visceral arches .
the developing female gamete ,  the differentiation of which is classified into six stages: i  ( pre - vitellogenic )  ,  ii  ( early vitellogenic )  ,  iii  ( mid - vitellogenic ,  formation of pigment )  ,  iv  ( polarization along animal - vegetal axis )  ,  v  ( late vitellogenic )  ,  and vi  ( post - vitellogenic ,  appearance of equatorial band )  .
an outpocketing of the foregut ventral to the infundibulum and the hypophysis .
either of paired female reproductive organs involved in production of ova and female sex hormones .
area of mesoderm at either side of the midline embryonic notochord that ,  on segmentation ,  forms the paired somites .
the space between the zona pellucida and the cell membrane of an oocyte or fertilized ovum .
outer layer of the developing optic vesicle ,  which contains pigmented epithelium .
a small cell formed by the meiotic division of an oocyte .
a germ cell that is a primordial oocyte in a female and that develops into secondary oogonia by mitotic division .
portion of tissue that consists of the mesenchymal precursor to the pronephric kidney and that begins to separate from the intermediate mesoderm at nf stage 21 and epithelializes by nf stage 30 .
sixth of the pharyngeal  ( endodermal )  evaginations between the visceral arches .
inner layer of the developing optic vesicle ,  which contains retinal nerve cells .
the hypophyseal layer that separates from the stomodeal layer of the stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium at nf stage 29 and 30 .
a type of germ cell that results from the mitotic division of a primary oogonium .
anterior part of the embryonic alimentary canal that is formed as an invagination of the ectoderm and is the future mouth .
deep layer of the neural ectoderm ,  which undergoes early neuronal differentiation .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the future body wall ;  it underlies the ectoderm .
an auxiliary olfactory sense organ involved in the detection of pheromones .
organ comprising the specialized structures subserving the function of the sense of smell .
the point on the surface of the egg at which the sperm enters the egg .
a depression on the head of the embryo that becomes converted into a nasal passage .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall ;  it overlies endoderm .
the internal nasal passages ,  aperture or cavity in the roof of the buccopharynx .
when the marginal zone mesoderm undergoes involution ,  where the marginal zone contacts the vegetal base .
unpigmented ,  larger blastomere of the vegetal  ( lower )  hemisphere of the cleaving embryo .
anatomical region that is the lower ,  light - colored hemisphere of the egg ,  as its cells contain large amounts of dense yolk proteins .
cell mass in the vegetal region of the embryo that will contribute to endoderm .
pharyngeal  ( endodermal )  evaginations between the visceral arches from which the eustachian tube is derived ;  pouches 2 - 4 open as gill slits .
a hole located in the center of the iris of the eye that allows light to enter the retina .
the three distinct placodal areas which develop from the posterior placodal area and lie ventral to the otic placode and dorsocaudal to the pharyngeal clefts ,  and contribute to the sensory ganglia for the distal portion of cranial nerves vii ix and x .
the structure that is the basic functional unit of the pronephros .
portion of the pronephric tubule that is immediately posterior to the early proximal tubule and anterior to the early distal tubule .
portion of the pronephric tubule that is immediately posterior to the late proximal tubule and anterior to the late distal segment .
portion of the pronephric tubule that is immediately anterior to the late proximal tubule .
pronephric segment immediately posterior to the early distal tubule and anterior to the pronephric duct .
the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros .
the structure that is the basic functional unit of the adult or mesonephric kidney ,  consisting of the vascular loop of the glomerulus ,  the capsule ,  the nephrocoel ,  the nephric duct ,  the nephrostome and the nephric tubule .
the cavity of the blastula ,  a closed space that is invaded by early mesenchyme and later obliterated by the enlarging archenteron .
the portion of endoderm between dorsal and ventral blastopore lips ,  and extending towards to the blastocoel .
a localized ectodermal thickening that develops by apicobasal elongation of cuboidal cells in the inner layer of the ectoderm in the head of the embryos ,  and is involved in formation of sense organs .
organizing center consisting of a small group of cells located at the ventral midline of the neural tube that influences the development of the nervous system ,  governing the specification of neuronal cell types and directing axonal trajectories .
anterior segment of the neural tube ,  which develops into the forebrain and midbrain .
region of the neural tube that will become the white matter of the nervous system .
the anterior u - shaped portion of the neural folds ,  the two longitudinal dorsal ridges ,  caused by a folding up of the ectoderm ,  that make their appearance on either side of the middle line of the early neural embryo .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures .
any of the transient ,  degenerating somites that form in the occipital region of the animal .
any of the somites that are posterior to the head and anterior to the tail .
somitic compartment that is a precursor of muscle .
the inner layer of the pericardium that is in contact with the surface of the heart .
multi - tissue structure that is the filtration unit of the pronephric kidney .
neural crest cells that migrate along two major pathways: through the somites ,  to populate the skin where they give rise to pigment cells ;  cells migrating along the lateral pathway generate sensory and sympathetic ganglia and adrenal chromaffin cells ,  among others .
the inner layer of ectoderm .
type of ganglion that is separate distally from the trigeminal ganglia ;  they become fused at their proximal end as they condense .
a unique type of neurogenic placode ,  located ventral and caudal to the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal pouches ,  which gives rise to small hypobranchial ganglia of yet unknown function .
primordium of the spleen ,  which goes on to form the spleen proper ,  while the right splenic promordium degenerates .
transient splenic primordia that degenerates by nf stage 40 .
internal lymphoid organ the primary function of which is to filter blood .
the epithelial lining of the coelom .
transient developmental organ that gives rise to oviducts in females  ( and is documented to persist in some male frogs )  .
structure that is equivalent to the convoluted proximal tubule of metanephric nephrons .
structure that is the mesonephros nephron's equivalent to the straight proximal segment of a metanephric nephron .
the mesonephric equivalent of the ascending limb ,  or straight distal segment ,  of metanephric nephrons .
the site of bicarbonate resorption in the adult kidney .
the fused aspects of ventral mesoderm ,  which have migrated from either side of the prechordal plate ,  and fused ventrally ,  just behind the cement gland .
region in the embryo that consists of precursor cells for the development of the embryonic heart .
the outlet of the embryonic heart ;  lies in the floor of the pharynx and conducts blood from the bulbus arteriosis to the aortic arches  ( 1 - 6 )  .
of the paired ventral aortas in the tadpole ,  the one that branches into the left aortic arches .
of the paired ventral aortas in the tadpole ,  the one that branches into the right aortic arches .
one of a series of six paired embryological vascular structures that give rise to several major arteries .
the anterior member of a series of six paired arterial connections between the dorsal and ventral aortae .
the second in a series paired arterial connections between the dorsal and ventral aortae .
the third in a series paired arterial connections between the dorsal and ventral aortae .
artery that arises from the ventral aorta and delivers blood to the filter apparatus .
the aorta of a postembryonic ,  hatched or immature tadpole ,  prior to metamorphosis .
the fifth in a series paired arterial connections between the dorsal and ventral aortae .
the sixth in a series paired arterial connections between the dorsal and ventral aortae .
one of three branches of the internal carotid artery ,  the palatine artery supplies the mouth region .
the fourth in a series of paired arterial connections between the dorsal and ventral aortae ,  it lies within the 4th branchial arch .
simple squamous epithelium that lines blood and lymphatic vessels and the heart .
the thin layer of cells that lines the interior surface of blood vessels ,  forming an interface between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall .
simple squamous epithelium that lines the veins .
the blood vessel that bifurcates from the aorta ,  and supplies the abdominal and pelvic regions .
artery consisting of many branches which supply blood to various organs in the viscus .
one of paired arteries that extends dorsally from the systemic arch to supply the muscles of the jaw and back .
the posterior extension of the dorsal aorta to the tail region ,  which degenerates at metamorphosis .
artery that branches from either side of the dorsal aorta and delivers blood to the musculature of the shoulder region .
one of the major arteries of the head ,  it is the cranial continuation of the aortic arches and the dorsal aorta .
the anterior continuation of the internal carotid artery ,  which gives off the nasociliary artery anterior to the eye .
a branch of the internal carotid artery that delivers blood to the eye .
one of three branches of the internal carotid artery ,  it supplies the mouth region .
the artery that supplies the network of blood vessels  ( the mesentry )  to the large intestine .
the rightmost of the two bilaterally symmetrical lymph hearts that can be seen adjacent to somites 3 and 4 by nf stage 40 ,  and can be seen beating by nf stage 43 .
the leftmost of the two lymph hearts ,  pulsatile organs that are present in lower vertebrates and function to propel lymph into the venous system .
bilaterally paired longitudinal vein ;  the anterior cardinal returns blood from the head ,  and the posterior cardinal returns it from the trunk ;  these two vessels join together on each side as the common cardinal vein ,  also known as the duct of cuvier that leads to the heart's sinus venosus .
large subdermal lymph - containing space located dorsally near the last vertebrae .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph .
any of the veins in the embryo that return blood from the yolk sac to the heart or later to the portal vein .
the smallest of the blood vessels ,  parts of the microcirculation ,  of the liver .
ventrolateral component of the external jugular vein .
one of the bilateral pairs of vessels clearly seen on the ventral surface of the head ,  running between the heart and the tip of the jaw ,  and draining the filter apparatus .
vein that first appears as disconnected portions lateral to the wolffian ducts at nf stage 44 ,  gradually becoming continuous .
sinus that surrounds the mesonephric tubules and puts lateral and medial postcardinal veins into communication with each other .
the main dorsal head vein ,  it drains into the duct of cuvier ,  and collects blood from the dorsal jaw region ,  cerebral veins ,  the ophthalmic vein and the short pharyngeal vein .
vein that returns blood from the dorsal head and drains into the duct of cuvier via the pronephric sinus .
vein that gives rise to the interrenal vein and pronephric sinus .
a system of vessels that initially swell from where the anterior and posterior cardinal veins meet before draining into the heart via the duct of cuvier at nf stage 33 and 34 ,  and then continue to narrow and fold into a characteristic s - shape by nf stage 37 and 38 .
vein formed from fusion of the posterior cardinal veins and that extends caudally .
vein that carries blood away from the liver .
vein that carries de - oxygenated blood from the posterior part of the body to the sinus venosus .
one of the veins of the alimentary system .
vein in the tail returning blood from the trunk and tail to the heart ,  leading directly into the posterior cardinal vein in the posterior trunk .
vein that carries away fluid in the interstitial spaces .
vein that starts in capillaries of the alimentary canal and ends in capillaries of the liver .
vein in the tail returning blood from the tail to the heart .
any of the veins that collect blood from the lungs and some small vesicles received from the esophagus .
vein in the posterior region that drains the ventral abdominal wall .
transient occipital somite that exists from nf stages 17 to 26 only .
somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
an elongated fibroblast type cell ,  the cytoplasm of which is stretched between the collagen fibres of the tendon .
sclerotome cells of the cartilage fate .
transient occipital somite that exists from nf stages 18 to 29 only .
transient occipital somite that exists from nf stages 18 to 29 / 30 only .
transient occipital somite that exists from nf stages 19 to late 30's .
trunk somite that is initially the fifth somite ,  first forming around nf stage 19 and becoming more anteriorly positioned as the head somites degenerate .
trunk somite that is initially the sixth somite and later becomes the secondmost anterior somite .
the 1st somite located posterior to the head .
the 2nd somite located posterior to the head .
the 3rd somite located posterior to the head .
the 4th somite located posterior to the head .
the 5th somite located posterior to the head .
mesenchymal cells that break from the sclerotome .
mesenchymal covering surrounding the notochord ,  derived from sclerotomal mesenchyme .
the 6th somite located posterior to the head .
the 7th somite located posterior to the head .
the 8th somite located posterior to the head .
the 9th somite located posterior to the head .
the 10th somite located posterior to the head .
the 11th somite located posterior to the head .
the 12th somite located posterior to the head .
the 13th somite located posterior to the head .
the 14th somite located posterior to the head .
the 15th somite located posterior to the head .
cranial nerve that supplies the nasal organ .
sensory ganglion of the trigeminal nerve .
a prominent collection of touch - sensory neurons of the trigeminal or fifth cranial nerve ,  positioned beside the brain between the eye and the ear .
any of the major paired nerves of the head or cephalic region .
a depression in the roof of the developing mouth in front of the buccopharyngeal membrane .
each of a set of hard ,  bony enamel - coated structures in the jaws ,  used for biting .
xenopus developmental stage that corresponds to the end of the animal's life .
the structure that enables tadpoles ,  which are suspension feeders ,  to trap food particles .
thickened placodal areas located anterior and posterior to the otic vesicle .
lateral line primordium that migrates ventrad along the posterior and ventral margin of the eye .
lateral line situated along the dorsal margin of the eye .
a lateral line that is present on the trunk of the organism .
the initial thyroid precursor ,  which arises from the ventral aspect of the second pharyngeal pouch .
the organ used for chemoreception .
the movable ,  muscular organ on the floor of the mouth .
the most anterior ,  or first ,  pharygeal / branchial arch ,  composed of the mandibular process ,  forming the posterior border of the stomodeum ,  and the maxillary process anterior to the stomodeum ,  containing the first aortic arch .
a swelling from the 3rd visceral arch at nf stage 35 and 36 ,  which co - occurs with a depression between the 3rd and 6th ,  forming the external gills by nf stage 39 .
the second pharyngeal / branchial arch ;  it arises as a thickening of the pharygeal wall between the first and second branchial clefts ;  contains the second aortic arch ;  forms part of the hyoid bone ,  tongue and facial musculature .
the third in a series of paired bars in the wall of the pharynx ,  within which are formed the third aortic arch and the cartilage bar of the visceral skeleton ,  and forms and supports the gills .
anatomical structure that includes small ,  calcitonin producing glands originating as epithelial growths from the sixth pharyngeal pouch .
the fourth in a series of paired bars in the wall of the pharynx ,  within which are formed the fourth aortic arch and the cartilage bar of the visceral skeleton ;  forms and supports the gills .
the functional units of the liver including the lobules .
hollow tree organ ,  the organ parts of which consist of the bile ducts .
sphincter muscle that is part of the pyloric region of the stomach .
a short lateral line that extends from the ear in a posterior - dorsal direction .
lateral line situated along the posterior and ventral margin of the eye .
lateral line complex that radiates on the ventral side of the head from a point between the eye and the base of the larval tentacle .
thickened plate of ectoderm that contributes to the formation of the dorsal ,  middle ,  or ventral lateral line .
the dorsal - most part of the sensory system on the surface of the tadpole consisting of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  distributed in discrete lines over the body surface .
a lateral line that extends from the ear in a posterior direction between the upper and lower lateral lines .
ventrally located lateral line that runs over the abdomen .
cranial nerve of the caudal lateral line that enters the brain between cranial nerves viii and ix ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the posterior lateral line ganglion and middle ganglion .
the pancreatic bud that gives rise to the accessory pancreatic duct .
the dorsal part of the tail fin .
any of the large number of glands of the larval skin ,  particularly common in the fins and adjacent skin of the trunk ;  also formed in the former frontal gland area on the upper jaw .
a type of colored melanophore  ( mobile pigment cells of the dermis and epidermis )  that contain fat - soluble carotenoids  ( obtained from the diet )  and pteridines  ( synthesized from the cell )  which are stored in pterinosomes .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
part of the eye that forms during the transition from optic vesicle to optic cup as a groove at the lateroventral edge of the optic vesicle ,  which expands medially .
neural tissue comprising the proximal part of either of the optic vesicles as they project towards the sides of the head ;  it remains narrow and constitutes the optic stalk  ( the peripheral part of each expands to form a hollow bulb )  .
the most anterior of 5 distinct and partially overlapping functional domains of the premigratory neural crest ,  which are intially part of the neural epithelium .
anterior endoderm that develops into the lung buds ,  and in turn ,  the lungs .
anatomical system that has as its parts the blood and lymph vessels .
any of the vessels through which blood circulates in the body .
structure that is part of the pineal system ,  is located in the skin on the dorsal surface of the head ,  and is exposed continuously to ambient illumination .
muscle tissue forming the facial muscles ,  a group of striated muscles innervated by the facial nerves .
a pigment cell that contains melanin  ( a brownish - black pigment )  ,  is derived from the neural crest ,  and is patchily distributed in the epidermis of the tadpole .
paired outgrowths of the cloaca that link the pronephric ducts to the exterior of the organism .
the myoblast that forms the muscles of the anterior abdominal walls .
portion of tissue that consists of mesodermally derived cells and intercellular matrix composed of protein fibers and carbohydrates ,  which supports ,  ensheathes and binds together other tissues .
the protrusion of mesenchymal tissue of the anterior cardinal vein which forms lymph sacs .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into the common cloacal passage .
notochordal membrane covering derived from notochordal epithelium .
outer layer of cells of the differentiating notochord ,  which give rise to the elastica externa and interna .
one of two pancreatic primordia that give rise to a ventral pancreatic bud .
second of two pancreatic primordia that give rise to a ventral pancreatic bud .
either of the two ventral pancreas rudiments that join and fuse with the right end of the dorsal pancreatic rudiment .
transient embryonic organ that serves as a kidney ,  providing osmoregulation during early developmental stages ,  and then degenerates during metamorphosis  ( starting at nf stage 53 )  as the mesonephric kidney develops and becomes functional .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical group that has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of xenopus laevis .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
an experimentally manipulated tissue or portion of the developing embryo ,  that can be culture alone  ( in vitro )  .
ectoderm section that has been dissected from the embryo ,  and treated with activin ,  and maintained in vitro .
nf stage 8 ectoderm of xenopus laevis embryos that have been cut and disaggregated .
the main artery of the circulatory system which carries oxygenated blood from the heart to all the arteries of the body except those of the lungs .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
anatomical structure that is a primary subdivision of the whole organism .
cell type that contains a deposition of coloring matter ,  the first of which differentiate during late tailbud stage ,  and that by nf stage 56 has produced a fully differentiated larval pigmentation pattern .
embryonic  ( precursor )  cell of the myogenic lineage that develops from the mesoderm .
an undifferentiated cell produced by early cleavages of the fertilized egg  ( zygote )  .
a connective tissue cell that secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
a germ cell that is a primordial spermatocyte in a male and that develops into secondary spermatogonia by mitotic division .
the developing male gamete .
a type of germ cell that results from the mitotic division of a primary spermatogonium .
type of neuron that is a primary mechanosensory cell ,  with peripheral neurites innervating the skin with free nerve endings .
cell that is the basic unit of nervous tissue ,  each consisting of a body ,  an axon ,  and dendrites ,  and the purpose of which is to receive ,  conduct ,  and transmit impulses in the nervous system .
organism subdivision that is the part of the body consisting of the cranial and pharyngeal regions .
organism subdivision that is the part of the body posterior to the head and anterior to the tail .
organism subdivision that is the terminal ,  flexible posterior appendage of the larva .
organism subdivision that has as its parts the jointed appendages used for locomotion and manipulation .
organism subdivision that is the collection of anatomical structures on the body surface .
cavity in which food is initially ingested and generally contains teeth ,  tongue and glands .
one of the pair of limbs that are situated anteriorly ,  develop in sacs that separate them from the gill chamber ,  are well - defined buds by nf stage 48 ,  are innervated by nf stage 51 ,  and are ossified by nf stage 59 .
one of the pair of limbs that are situated posteriorly ,  are evident as buds laterally by nf stage 47 ,  and are innervated by nf stage 51 .
one of several most distal parts of a limb .
surface structure that provides one of the small external openings of the head that give passage to air for breathing .
an internal organ of the body ;  especially: one  ( as the heart ,  liver ,  or intestine )  located in the great cavity of the trunk proper .
any of the 5 digits that are the most distal parts of a hindlimb ,  each digit consisting of a single metatarsal ,  2 - 4 phalanges ,  and a claw .
any of the 4 digits that are the most distal part of a forelimb ,  each digit consisting of a single metatarsal and 2 - 3 phalanges .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organization is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organization .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
an anatomical structure that exists only before the organism is fully formed .
an embryonic structure that is the rudiment or commencement of a part or organ .
primary germ layer that can give rise to both mesoderm and endoderm .
portion of tissue that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and that is underlain by a basal lamina .
portion of embryonic tissue consisting of loosely organized ,  undifferentiated mesodermal or neural crest derived cells ,  that have specific properties  ( they are migratory ,  have no polarity )  .
portion of tissue that consists of a fasciculated group of axons .
a mature female germ cell that is capable of initiating formation of a new individual by fusion with a male gamete .
connective tissue in which fat is stored .
anatomical structure associated with the gonads that vary in form among amphibians but are primarily composed of adipose tissue and are thought to be a source of nutrients for the gonads .
region located near the pronephros and pronephric ducts that is a site of hematopoiesis in the embryo .
a simple ciliated tube through which the ovum travels from the ovaries to the cloaca and the external environment .
a rectangle of dorsal mesendoderm and ectoderm from an early - gastrula - stage xenopus laevis embryo .
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
anatomical cluster consisting of a cartilaginous skull that begins to form during early tadpole stage .
anatomical system that provides physical support to the organism .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free forelimb region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free hindlimb region .
arched skeletal structure that supports the forelimbs ,  the rudiments of which can be distinguished in mesenchyme at nf stage 51 ,  and is complete by nf stage 60 .
arched skeletal structure that supports the hindlimbs ,  begins to develop at nf stage 50 ,  and is ossified by nf stage 66 .
the anterior limb bud that develops into the fore limb ;  oval shaped in dorsal aspect by nf stage 50 ,  and paddle shaped by nf stage 53 ;  all four fingers and melanophores apparent by nf stage 54 .
the posterior limb bud that develops into the hindlimb ;  a thickening of the ectoderm first noticeable at nf stage 47 ,  innervated by nf stage 51 .
skeletal structure that has as its parts the vertebral column ,  located in the dorsal part of the trunk ,  and is formed by a series of vertebrae .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the vertebrae in the body .
skeletal system that is part of the head ,  including the splanchnocranium ,  chondrocranium ,  and dermatocranium .
the first vertebra ,  which arises from the trunk somites 1 and 2 .
the vertebra anterior to the sacral vetebra .
the 9th vertebra ,  which arises from the trunk somites 9 and 10 .
the bones that make up the tail region of the tadpole .
skeletal element in the midline of the pelvic girdle that arises from somites 10 - 13 .
anatomical structure consisting of a narrowly triangular chamber supported by a series of semicircular cartilages in which part of the sound - production system is located .
skeleton encasing the brain and auditory apparatus .
anatomical cluster consisting of the ventral portion of the first pharyngeal arch .
paired cartilaginous component of the lower jaw that fuses together through a median inferior labial cartilage ,  resulting in a single curved bar of cartilage by metamorphic climax .
anatomical cluster consisting of the mandibular structures which connect the base of the lower jaw with the skull .
the dorsal portion of the first pharyngeal arch .
any of the coiled tubules located in the testes in which spermatozoa are produced .
cranial nerve that largely consists of somatic efferent fibers which innervate four eye muscles  ( m rectus superior ,  m obliquus inferior ,  and mm rectus inferior and anterior )  .
somatic efferent nerve that runs to the superior oblique muscle of the eye .
cranial nerve that has three branches: the ophthalmic branch that supplies the skin of the nose and upper jaw ,  and the maxillary and mandibular branches that supply the lower jaw .
cranial nerve that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that branches into the supraorbital  ( supplying the skin of the eye region and the lateral line organs here )  ,  the palatine  ( to the roof of the buccal cavity )  ,  and the hyomandibular  ( dividing into the jugular and mental branches )  .
cranial nerve that runs to the ear .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
a dorsally projecting part of the brain concerned especially with the coordination of muscles and the maintenance of bodily equilibrium ,  situated between the brain stem and the back of the cerebrum .
irregularly shaped cavity in the rhombencephalon ,  between the medulla oblongata ,  the pons ,  and the isthmus in front ,  and the cerebellum behind .
posterior portion of the hindbrain that controls respiration ,  heartbeat ,  digestion ,  and swallowing as well as some locomotor responses .
a mixed nerve that carries motor ,  sensory ,  and autonomic signals between the spinal cord and the body .
any of the projections on each side of the vertebra from the point where the neural arch lamina joins the pedicel for the articulation with the head of a single - headed rib or the upper head of a double - headed rib .
anatomical structure consisting of a small ,  pointed keratinized appendage at the end of each of the three inner toes of the hindlimbs .
compartment of head somite 1 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of head somite 2 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of head somite 3 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of head somite 4 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 1 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 2 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 3 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 4 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of head somite 4 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 1 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 2 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 3 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 4 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 5 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 6 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 7 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 8 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 5 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 6 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 7 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 8 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 9 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 9 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 10 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 10 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 11 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 11 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 12 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 12 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of trunk somite 13 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of trunk somite 13 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of tail somite 14 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of tail somite 14 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of tail somite 15 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of tail somite 15 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of tail somite 16 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of tail somite 16 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of tail somite 17 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
compartment of tail somite 17 that is a precursor of muscle .
any of the somites that form posterior to the trunk and are resorbed at metamorphosis .
the principal auditory organ of the frog ,  which utilizes both mechanical and electrical  ( hair cell - based )  frequency tuning mechanisms for hearing ,  located near the junction of the utricle and the saccule bones of the inner ear .
a sensory structure in the lagenar portion of an amphibian's membranous labyrinth between the oval and round windows .
anatomical structure that produces gametes as well as certain sex hormones controlled by the pituitary gonadotropins .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
cell that arises from the endodermal germ plasm and can be detected by nf stage 28 in the endodermal mass .
a mature male or female germ cell .
male germ cell that is derived from spermatocytes and develops into spermatozoa .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
the immune system of a postembryonic ,  hatched or immature tadpole ,  prior to metamorphosis .
the complete system of biological structures and processes within the adult organism that protects against disease by identifying and killing pathogens and tumor cells .
a cell of the b cell ,  t cell ,  or natural killer cell lineage .
a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
one of the two types of lymphocytes  ( the others being t cells )  .
an immature t cell located in the thymus .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
structure that is an early outgrowth of a presumptive limb .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
skeletal structure that has as its parts the pectoral and pelvic girdles ,  which articulate with the axial skeleton ,  together with their associated limbs ,  the forelimbs and hindlimbs .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton .
anatomical cluster that consists of the cartilages and bones that surround the brain .
an anatomical cluster that is part of the cranium and structurally supports the eye .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the neurocranium and provides structural support for the olfactory organs .
an anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the neurocranium and forms the margin of the foramen margin and occipital condyles .
anatomical cluster that forms the floor and side walls of the middle part of the cranium .
anatomical cluster that is a posterolateral part of the neurocranium and structurally supports the vestibuloauditory system .
regional skeletal system of the jaws ,  hyoid and branchial arches .
skeletal subdivision comprising the skeletal elements of the hyoid arch .
skeletal subdivision comprising the dorsal skeletal elements of the hyoid arch .
skeletal subdivision comprising the ventral skeletal elements of the hyoid arch .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the branchial arches ;  the last five of the set of seven pharyngeal arches ;  generally branchial arch no .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the first branchial or pharyngeal arch .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the second branchial or pharyngeal arch .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the third branchial or pharyngeal arch .
skeletal and cartilaginous elements of the fourth branchial or pharyngeal arch .
a region of the whole organism that contains a recognizable set of structures or anatomical entities .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
the chamber of the heart that receives blood from the lungs .
the chamber of the heart that receives blood from the sinus venosus .
cardiac chamber that consists of a wall that surrounds the cavity of a ventricle .
part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information .
the sensory system used for balance and hearing .
the sensory system used for olfaction  ( the sense of smell )  .
the sensory system used for the sense of taste .
the sensory system used for sight .
part of the circulatory system that consists of a series of vessels that collect blood  ( exclusive of erythrocytes )  which seeps through capillary walls and return it to the veins .
the epithelium of the gut .
epithelium that lines the oral cavity ,  with many short microvilli as well as mucous cells ,  rodlet cells and taste buds .
epithelium lining the pharynx ,  consisting largely of simple columnar epithelium .
epithelium that is part of a developing tooth or dental organ .
hollow epithelial tube on the dorsal side of the embryo that develops into the brain and spinal cord .
polymorphic cell type that forms cartilage .
cell type that is a component of the glomus .
the cluster of bones in the wrist between the radius ,  ulna and metacarpus ,  they do not belong to individual fingers ,  but allow the wrist to move and rotate .
each of the bones forming the part of the hand between the fingers and the wrist .
either of the paired ,  long bones of endochondral origin formed by the fusion of the radius and ulna .
either of the paired ,  elongate ,  cylindrical forelimb bones of endochondral origin that extend from the pectoral girdle  ( shoulders )  to the elbows .
a bone of the wrist of the hindlimb ,  which remains cartilaginous until nf stage 66 .
each of the bones forming the part of the foot between the toes and the heel .
bone of the lower hind leg ,  which undergoes ossification from nf stage 56 to stage 66 .
either of the paired ,  elongate ,  cylindrical bones of endochondral origin that form the thighs ,  extending from the pelvic girdles to the knees .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell receptor segments reside .
the layer of nerve cells in the retina .
the monolayer of pigmented epithelium covering the neural retina .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the photoreceptor cells .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell bodies reside .
fiber layer adjacent the retinal ganglion cell layer that comprises its axons as they traverse to the optic nerve .
the layer of the retina composed of the cell bodies of bipolar cells ,  horizontal cells ,  and some of the cell bodies of amacrine cells .
retinal layer composed of the basal lamina of muller cells .
innermost nuclear layer of the retina ,  consisting of retinal ganglion cells ,  containing neurons that project axons through the optic nerve to the brain .
a thin fenestrated layer of the pars nervosa retinae adjacent to the outer nuclear layer and through which extend the visual rods and cones .
the plexiform layer of the retina positioned between the inner nuclear layer and the ganglion cell layer and containing the dendrites of retinal ganglion cells and processes of bipolar and amacrine cells .
structure that is the anterodorsal - most region of the midbrain and is responsible for auditory and visual reflexes .
anatomical cavity bounded by the derivatives of the branchial arches .
type of trunk muscle that lies ventral to the horizontal septum of the vertebrae and is innervated by the ventral ramus of the spinal nerves .
trunk muscle that lies dorsal to the horizontal septum of the vertebrae .
muscle that is located posterior to the head and anterior to the tail and consists of epaxial and hypaxial muscle .
a cell that takes up stuff and metabolizes it .
any of the cell types of the digestive system that secrete amino acid peptides or polypeptides .
exocrine functioning cells of the pancreas .
a cell that secretes alkaline substances .
a cell whose primary function is to prevent the transport of stuff across compartments .
a surface epithelial cell of stratified squamous epithelium of cornea ,  tongue ,  oral cavity ,  esophagus or cloaca .
a cell of ectomesenchymal origin concerned with the formation of the layer of cementum on the roots of teeth .
a cell that originates from a mesenchymal stem cell and forms chondrocytes  ( cartilage cells )  .
a cell that moves among different tissues of the body ,  via blood ,  lymph ,  or other medium .
a type of cell ,  found in the digestive tract ,  that secrete enzymes that break down polymeric macromolecules into their smaller building blocks ,  in order to facilitate their absorption by the body .
a cell found in the embryo before the formation of all the germ layers is complete .
a cell of the early embryo at the developmental stage in which the blastomeres ,  resulting from repeated mitotic divisions of the fertilized ovum  ( zygote )  ,  form a compact cell mass .
a cell of the embryo in the early stage following the blastula ,  characterized by morphogenetic cell movements ,  cell differentiation ,  and the formation of the three germ layers .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a cell of an endocrine gland ,  ductless glands that secrete substances which are released directly into the circulation and which influence metabolism and other body functions .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a cell of an exocrine gland ,  i .e .
individual secretory cells of the hatching gland that secrete an enzyme that dissolves or weakens the egg jelly and facilitates hatching .
a cell that is specialized to accumulate keratins ,  a family of fibrous structural proteins .
type of cell that is capable of generating and maintaining the fibrous connective tissue of the ligament .
a modified epidermal cell located in the stratum basale .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a type of epithelial cell ,  found in the epidermis and digestive system ,  whose function is to secrete mucin ,  which dissolves in water to form protective mucus .
a cell that is specialized to accumulate myelin .
a non - sensory cell type surrounding the neuromast support cells and neuromast hair cells ,  separating the neuromast from the epidermis ,  and secreting cupula in which the ciliary bundles of all the hair cells are embedded .
a non - sensory cell of the neuromast that extends between the sensory hair cells from the basement membrane to the apical surface ;  neuromast support cells are surrounded by neuromast mantle cells .
an erythrocyte having a nucleus .
a non - ciliated columnar cell that extends from the epithelial free margin to the basement membrane of the olfactory epithelium .
a cell that is specialized to accumulate oxygen .
a secretory cell that secretes an agonist into intercellular spaces in which it diffuses to a target cell other than that which produced it .
a slender ,  contractile ,  mesenchymal - like cell found in close association with capillary walls .
a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
embryonic primordium consisting of an endodermal thickening that develops into the liver .
either of the pair of structures lying on either side of the dorsal aorta in which fluid balance is regulated and waste is excreted out in the form of urine .
type of presumptive precardiac cell that lie as paired primordia 30 to 45 degrees on either side of the dorsal midline of the embryo .
type of muscle that arises in the zygomatic arch and closes the jaw .
a tube shaped portion of tissue lined with epithelial cells that collects secretions and routes them to their destination .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
any of the sense organs that detect vibrations carried through water .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and comprises portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
anatomical cluster of the central body axis including the cranium ,  vertebrae ,  notochord ,  ribs ,  and sternum .
organ entity that is typically involved in mechanical support and may have different skeletal tissue compositions at different stages .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
main component of the vertebral column .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
cranial skeleton derived from neural crest cells .
anatomical cluster that encompasses the cranium and facial structures .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
skeletal system that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
anatomical structure composed of a combination of protein fibers ,  ground substance and tissue fluid ;  typically has embedded cells .
cartilage tissue intermediate between hyaline cartilage and dense connective tissue ;  contains of abundant collagen fibers ;  chondrocytes often arranged in columns .
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibers organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
a layer consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that forms a sheet underlying or overlying cells such as endothelial and epithelial cells .
proteinaceous extracellular matrix that is avascular and consists primarily of glycosaminoglycans .
extracellular matrix that is mineralized .
bone tissue that is an unmineralized bone matrix deposited by osteoblasts prior to the mineralization of bone tissue .
avascular gag - rich matrix that is mineralized .
avascular gag - rich matrix that is not mineralized .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
skeletal tissue that is mineralized .
bone tissue mineralized with hydroxyapatite .
hyaline cartilage tissue that is mineralized .
anatomical system comprising the sum of all muscles in the body .
cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
hyaline cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
cell condensation that is a well - defined population of densely organized mesenchymal cells that aggregates adjacent to an epithelium .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
odontogenic papilla located along the jaws or pharyngeal skeleton .
anatomical cluster that comprises the oral part of the pharynx .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that surrounds the cartilage of developing bone ,  consisting of two separate layers: an outer fibrous layer and inner chondrogenic layer .
fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the notochord ;  includes a layer of elastin .
collagen - rich odontogenic tissue characteristic of teeth and tooth - like skeletal elements  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  ;  mature dentine is mineralized and develops from predentine tissue ;  often  ( but not always )  tubular and acellular .
odontogenic tissue that is collagen - rich and characteristic of vertebrate teeth and tooth - like structures  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  deposited by preodontoblasts and odontoblasts that are typically excluded from the matrix .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
connective tissue that is matrix - poor with large number of vacuolated cells .
cartilage tissue that is mineralized .
mesenchyme cells that proliferate in the progress zone of developing limb buds .
portion of tissue comprising the posterior end of the tail fin .
nerve that is a branch of cranial nerve viii and innervates the cristae ampullaris .
a portion of tissue that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
a regenerating tissue composed of a proliferative mass of undifferentiated progenitor cells from which new differentiated structures arise .
fin margin which is part of the dorsal fin .
the fin at the posterior part of the body of the tadpole .
the unsupported flaps of epidermis - covered ,  loose connective tissue extending the length of the dorsal tail muscle ,  originating at or near the tail - body junction ,  and extending posteriorly to slightly beyond the tip of the notochord and tail musculature .
the ventral part of the tail fin .
fin margin which is part of the ventral fin .
portion of the cleavage - stage embryo below the equator and consisting of prospective endodermal cells .
during gastrulation ,  the ring of endodermal cells that overlie the larger sub - blastoral endoderm cells .
during gastrulation ,  the vegetal endodermal cells that lie just below the ring of smaller suprablastoral endoderm cells .
neural crest that lose their connections to other neuroepithelial cells during the delamination process and begin to migrate .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the diencephalon ventral to the thalamus consisting of connecting fibers and is a center for control of the autonomous nervous system .
decussation of cranial nerve ii axons whereby some cross the midline and some remain ipsilateral .
the ventral region of the alar hypothalamus .
anatomical region between somites .
primary blood vessel sprouts that originate from the aorta and grow dorsally between the somites .
a tendon located in the intersomitic region .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
neuron located in the intersomitic region .
any of the transient sequential subdivisions of the developing hindbrain ,  all posterior to the midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
the 2nd most anterior segment of the developing hindbrain ,  which along with r3 is dorsal to brancial arch 1 .
the 3rd segment of the developing hindbrain ,  between rhombomeres r2 and r4 ,  which along with r2 is dorsal to branchial arch 1 .
the 4th segment of the developing hindbrain ,  between rhombomeres r3 and r5 and dorsal to branchial arch 2 .
the 5th segment of the developing hindbrain ,  between rhombomeres r4 and r6 ,  and dorsal to branchial arch 3 .
the 6th segment of the developing hindbrain ,  directly bordering the midbrain - hindbrain boundary ,  and dorsal to branchial arch 4 .
specialized epithelial cells involved in the maintenance of osmotic homeostasis .
part of the neural ectoderm that will become the embryonic midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
one of the two edges of the neural groove .
the apical region of the animal hemisphere .
anatomical region that surrounds the eye but is within the orbit .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural plate and will form the optic vesicle .
the portion of the embryonic ectoderm ,  including the preplacodal ectoderm ,  that does not give rise to nervous tissue .
a thick ,  u - shaped primordium positioned at the border of the future epidermis and the neural plate / neural crest forming regions ,  in the neural stage embryo .
an embryonic structure positioned halfway between the prospective eye and ear ,  adjacent to the future midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
epithelium that borders the anterior and equitorial region of the lens .
the region of the lens of the eye where cells from the anterior epithelial capsule become transformed into the fibers that compose the lens substance .
portion of tissue comprising fibers that form the bulk of the lens .
a neuron that laterally connects other neurons in the inner nuclear layer of the retina .
a type of interneuron that has two neurites ,  usually an axon and a dendrite ,  extending from opposite poles of an ovoid cell body .
interneuron of the retina .they integrate ,  modulate ,  and interpose a temporal domain in the visual message presented to the retinal ganglion cells ,  with which they synapse in the inner plexiform layer .
type of neuron that receives neural inputs via bipolar ,  horizontal and amacrine cells .
diencephalic white matter  ( tract )  that is composed of retinal ganglion cell axons after which they have passed through the optic chiasm .
the portion of the neural plate border that is anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of the neural plate border that is posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction ,  and from which neural crest cells arise .
the boundary between non - neural ectoderm and the neural plate of neurula stage embryos ,  giving rise to the neural crest and cranial placodes .
any of bilaterally paired tubes that perform the resorptive and excretory functions of the pronephros ,  and which connect the pronephric glomeruli to the pronephric ducts .
a portion of forelimb tissue that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
a portion of hind limb tissue that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
a portion of tail tissue that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
a portion of eye tissue that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
a cell found in the retina of the eye that is specialized to detect and transduce light .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types in the retina .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types of the retina .
the apical region of the vegetal hemisphere .
a developing female gamete that is at the pre - vitellogenic stage .
a developing female gamete that is at the early vitellogenic stage .
a developing female gamete that is at the mid - vitellogenic stage .
a developing female gamete that is at the stage in which polarization along the animal - vegetal axis is established .
a developing female gamete that is at the late vitellogenic stage .
a female gamete that is at the fully grown stage .
a sheet of extracellular matrix that separates the outer myocardial cell layer from the inner endocardial tube in the early embryonic heart .
a thickened layer of ectodermal cells at the distal tip of a developing limb bud .
anatomical cluster that consists of rapidly dividing cells .
the part of the heart connecting the atrium to the cardiac ventricle .
endocardium that is part of the atrioventricular canal .
a portion of tissue forming a cusp guarding the opening of the atrioventricular valve .
portion of tissue that prevents regurgitation of blood from the ventricles to the atria or from the pulmonary arteries or aorta to the ventricles .
muscle that pulls the hyoid apparatus forward and depresses the lower jaw .
muscle of the abdomen that continues anteriorly as the m . rectus cervicis .
muscle that retracts the hyoid and ,  therefore ,  the tongue .
a mechanoreceptor cell located in the inner ear that is sensitive to auditory stimuli .
horizontal  ( lateral )  patch of cristae / sensory epithelia cells of the inner ear .
presumptive structure at the animal pole of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
posterior patch of cristae / sensory epithelia cells of the inner ear .
presumptive structure that will develop into paraxial mesoderm .
the interface between the dorsal neuroepithelium and the roof plate of the fourth ventricle .
portion of tissue that is a patch of thickened ,  pseudostratified epithelium in the inner ear ,  consisting of regular arrays of sensory hair cells interspersed with supporting cells .
anterior patch of cristae / sensory epithelia cells of the inner ear .
a specialized epithelial cell involved in sensory perception .
the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the pulmocutaneous and systemic arteries .
a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
the thin ,  spiral - shaped membranous structure within the ventricular outflow tract of the heart .
ganglion that provides afferent innervation for hair cells associated with both the auditory and vestibular components of the inner ear .
any network of intercommunicating blood vessels .
region that is overlapping ,  anterior ,  and dorsal to the main body of the ventral blood island .
a small ,  oval ,  bony chamber of the labyrinth .
a pluripotent cell in the ventral blood island that can give rise to mesenchymal cells including erythrocytes and endothelial cells .
one of two veins that run upward at first in front ,  and subsequently on either side of the intestinal canal .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
cell that comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal .
an immature or mature cell in the lineage leading to and including erythrocytes .
posterior vascular precursor cells of the tail region .
the blood vessels of the head region .
blood vessels of the retina .
vessels that are associated with the posterior region of the lens .
the hyaloid artery is a branch of the ophthalmic artery ,  which is itself a branch of the internal carotid artery .
vein internal to the eye .
network of intersecting blood vessels associated with the posterior region of the lens .
vein that crosses the head dorsally at nf stage 37 / 38 and drains into the vena capitis medialis .
vein that drains the dorsal longitudinal vessel and the caudal portions of the venous capillary network of the medulla oblongata .
the cerebral veins are divisible into external and internal groups according to the outer surfaces or the inner parts of the hemispheres they drain into .
type of vein that crosses the head dorsally at nf stage 37 / 38 and drains into the vena capitis lateralis .
type of artery that carries blood from the heart to the lungs .
a mesenchymal stem cell capable of developing into blood vessel endothelium .
type of vein that sprouts from the posterior cardinal vein ,  growing dorsally between the somites ,  and then joining ,  and draining the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
the small branching sprouts of the dorsal aorta that grow across the medial surface of the somite ,  turn right angles to grow over that surface and then fuse with other sprouts and form the vertebral arteries adjacent to the neural tube ;  the intersomitic arteries supply the body wall and persist in the adult as the posterior intercostal ,  subcostal and the lumbar arteries .
in the trunk region ,  one of the veins into which the subintestinal vein drains ,  and which breaks up to merge with the vitelline network at nf stage 40 .
the artery that crosses the brain dorsally ,  and meets the metencephalic vein .
the vein that crosses the brain dorsally ,  parallel with the mid - cerebral vein ,  and meets the metencephalic artery .
the dorsal branch / remnant of the vena capitis medialis ,  that drains blood from the eye .
one of the major dorsal head veins that drains into the anterior cardinal vein ,  the other being the vena capitis lateralis .
one of the major dorsal head veins that drains into the anterior cardinal vein ,  the other being the vena capitis medialis .
vein that is formed from and drains into the left omphalomesentric vein ,  and by nf stage 40 ,  it is on the left side of the gut .
the major artery of the midbrain ,  which crosses the midbrain medially to meet its partner the mesencephalic vein .
the major vein of the midbrain ,  which crosses the midbrain medially to meet its partner the mesencephalic artery .
the main artery of the olfactory region which arises from the cerebral artery at nf stage 41 .
a plexus of capillaries that is located anteromedial to the eye .
vessel into which intersomitic vessels enter in a regular pattern at each intersomitic junction .
the major  ( left )  branch of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  ( dlav )  ;  it remains as the sole branch after the right branch breaks up at nf stage 44 .
the minor  ( right )  branch of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  ( dlav )  ;  the right branch disappears during nf stage 44 .
part of the telencephalon ,  comprising paired anterior outgrowths of either of the cerebral hemispheres in which the olfactory nerve exits .
type of myocyte that is responsible for heart contraction .
the outer membrane / wall of the developing heart ,  surrounding the myocardium .
muscle that is paired and runs anterio - posteriorly along the heart and is covered with epicardium .
the dorsal region of the pericardium .
the field of cardiac progenitor cells that form the heart tube in the embryonic heart .
the population of cells located in the splanchnic mesoderm that contribute to the formation of the spiral septum of the outflow tract of the embryonic heart ;  it is located anterior to the primary heart field .
branchial crest that is the 3rd neural crest stream and lays between hyoid crest and posterior branchial crest .
branchial crest that is the most posterior of the five neural crest streams .
the discrete swellings of cardiac jelly in the outflow tract and ventricular walls of the developing embryonic heart .
neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
one of the 5 distinct and partially overlapping functional domains of the premigratory neural crest .
one of the 5 distinct and partially overlapping functional domains of the premigratory neural crest .
skeletal element that is often isolated ,  small ,  and variable in composition .
ossicle that is part of the appendicular skeleton .
mineralized bone tissue that always includes non - terminally differentiated osteoblasts and osteocytes .
odontoid tissue that is deposited by cementoblasts onto dentine tissue and functions to attach teeth ,  odontodes and other odontogenic derivatives to bone tissue and the integument .
cartilage tissue that is flexible and contains abundant elastic fibers .
skeletal tissue that consists of an avascular ,  noncollagenous ,  hypermineralized matrix that is deposited by ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
skeletal tissue that is hypermineralized and aprismatic and deposited by a combination of ameloblasts and odontoblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
chondroid tissue that is not mineralized .
skeletal tissue that is avascular tubular mineralized matrix ,  primarily made of dentine that is deposited by odontoblasts that are excluded from the matrix ;  develops from pre - dentine tissue .
odontogenic tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by preameloblast and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
odontoid tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by odontoblasts and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
replacement element ;  an ossicle ;  often an endochondral replacement element that has cartilage and bone states that develops in dense regular connective tissue  ( e .g . ,  tendons and ligaments )  .
a sac - like cavity ventral to the liver ,  lying in the sub - mesodermal space and closed by a thin sheet of ectodermal cells ,  from which the future gall bladder develops .
one of the 3 domains of the u - shaped preplacodal ectoderm  ( ppe )  ,  which lies abutting and anterior to the neural plate .
one of the 3 domains of the u - shaped preplacodal ectoderm  ( ppe )  ,  which lies abutting and lateral to the chordal neural plate border and neural crest .
the small pre - placodal ectoderm area that develops at the midline of the anterior neural ridge ,  abutting the anterior neural plate ,  and invaginates to form rathke's pouch ,  which in turn forms the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and gives rise to the endocrine secretory cells of the pituitary .
the region that delineates the rostral boundary of the neural plate in the neural stage embryo ,  and is devoid of neural crest cells .
the region of the diencephalon above rathke's pouch ,  and forms the posterior lobe of the pituitary .
the most anterior of the epibranchial placodes ,  associated with the 1st pharyngeal cleft and contributing to the distal ganglia of cranial nerve vii  ( facial nerve )  .
the central of the three epibranchial placodes ,  associated with the 2nd pharyngeal cleft and contributing to the distal ganglia of cranial nerve ix  ( glossopharyngeal nerve )  .
the most posterior of the epibranchial placodes ,  in 3 distinct zones ,  associated with the 3rd to 6th pharyngeal clefts ,  and contributing to the facial ,  lateral line and glossopharyngeal ganglion .
small motor nerve that emerges from the lateral wall of the medulla with the roots of the vagus nerve ,  and innervates a single pectoral suspensory muscle ,  the m . cucullaris .
nerve that leads to the muscles of the tongue  ( mm geniohyoideus ,  genioglossus ,  hyoglossus ,  and rectus cervicis )  and has both sensory and motor functions .
the narrow bridge that links the two glomera of the pronephric kidney .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes movement .
the dorsal component of the mandibular arch ,  the ventral one being meckel's cartilage .
cartilaginous element that ,  together with the palatoquadrate and connecting musculature ,  is responsible for the ventilation and irrigation of the of the filter apparatus .
lateral line placode that gives rise to the anteroventral lateral line nerve .
lateral line placode that gives rise to the anterior lateral line nerve .
lateral line placode that gives rise to the middle lateral line nerve .
lateral line placode that gives rise to the posterior lateral line nerve .
type of epithelium that facilitates the transcellular transport of solutes .
type of cell of the epidermis lacking cilia ,  which separate and space the ciliated epidermal cells .
region of the mesencephalon that arises from a small area of the neural plate ,  spanning the midline immediately adjacent ,  and being slightly posterior to the dorsal tegmentum area .
region of the mesencephalon that arises from a small area of the neural plate immediately adjacent and slightly anterior to the ventral tegmentum area .
laterally located vein that drains the ventral abdominal wall .
the thin epidermis extension of the inner fin visible in the mid trunk region of the inner fin at nf stage 27 ,  and extending posteriorly and then ventrally ,  ending just before the proctodeum .
anterior part of the hypothalamus ,  given rise by the midanterior neural ridge along with the chiasmatic ridge during forebrain morphogenesis .
a single long structure at each corner of the mouth that has muscle fibers attached to an internal cartilaginous support and that is mobile .
the exit for respiratory water in the tadpole .
a cranial continuation of the bulbis cordis that contains two lateral branches and divides into the carotid arch ,  systemic arch ,  and pulmocutaneous arch .
multi - tissue structure through which the blood exits the heart .
the larval stomach .
posterior part of the hypothalamus ,  given rise by the midanterior neural plate during forebrain morphogenesis .
a distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the subventricular zone ;  this mass contributes most of its cells to the striatum ;  however ,  neocortex ,  thalamus ,  septum and olfactory bulb neurons are also partly derived from the lge .
a cartilaginous element that is the primordium or commencement of a femur .
the most posterior of the hind digits ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  2 phalanges ,  and a claw .
type of vein that drains the gill region and which passes backwards lateral to the gill chambers and opens into the pronephric sinus .
a vein of the hind limb ,  first visible in the developing hind limb bud at c . nf stage 50 when it enters the ventral commissural vessel .
the accompanying artery of the ischiadic nerve .
either of the primary veins in the hindlimbs that collect blood from the hindlimb region .
part of the lateral pretrosal artery that supplies blood to the roof of the mouth .
a type of artery that supplies the deep structures of the facial region .
the 7th segment of the developing hindbrain .
a major artery of the neck that branches from the subclavian arteries and merge to form the single midline basilar artery .
artery that supplies the anterior wall of the abdomen .
artery that supplies blood via branches to the gonads ,  oviducts ,  and kidneys .
vein that collects blood from muscles of the head and drains into the external jugular vein .
vein that comes from the skin of the trunk .
vein that comes from the subcutaneous tissue of the hindlimb stylopod .
one of three major veins that enter the sinus venosus .
vein that collects blood from the forelimb via the branchial veins and from the muscles and skin of the trunk via the anterior epigastric and lateral veins .
either of the veins that collect blood from the trunk and skin and drain into the subclavian vein .
a vein formed by the combination of veins in the pelvic region that collects blood from the liver ,  stomach ,  intestines ,  and gall bladder .
vein that drains jacobson's organ .
structure that comprises the base region of the telencephalon .
a distinct elevation of a transient proliferating cell mass of the subventricular zone ;  this mass contributes most of its cells to the neocortex ;  however ,  hippocampal neurons ,  thalamus ,  septum and olfactory bulb neurons are also partly derived from the mge .
any of the outpocketings of pharyngeal endoderm that interdigitate with the neural crest derived pharyngeal arches .
region encompassing the oral end of the alimentary canal .
lymphatic vessel located in the posterior ventral region of the trunk ,  ventral to the posterior cardinal vein .
limb segment that is the proximal part of the limb  ( i .e .
limb segment that is the middle part of the limb  ( i .e .
limb segment that is the terminal part of the limb  ( i .e .
the 8th and most posterior segment of the developing hindbrain .
a multipolar neuron that connects afferent neurons and efferent neurons in neural pathways .
a lateral line that extends from the ear in a posterior - ventral direction .
lateral line placode that gives rise to the anterodorsal lateral line nerve .
any of a field of cells in the posterior section of the foregut that will give rise to the liver bud and dorsal and ventral pancreatic buds .
multi - tissue structure that is the ventral part of the midbrain .
any of the neuronal precursor cells that are isolated and scattered throughout the anterior ventro - lateral region of the embryo ,  generally in a punctate pattern ,  immediately below the ectoderm .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
ossicle that is part of the axial skeleton .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
median fin skeleton supporting the caudal fin .
paired bone that is part of the shoulder assembly ,  joining the scapula to the front end of the sternum .
skeletal subdivision of the head that includes the skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
median fin skeleton located on the dorsal surface of the organism .
fin that is an unpaired fin located in the sagittal plane of the organism .
postcranial axial skeleton that is unpaired and located on the sagittal plane of the organism .
appendage that is one of the anterior or posterior paired appendages  ( i .e .
appendage that is one of the anterior paired appendages  ( i .e .
appendage that is one of the posterior paired appendages  ( i .e .
bone that forms the posterior part of the pectoral  ( shoulder )  girdle .
skeletal element that surrounds the notochord .
skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements that are part of the skeleton .
anatomical structure that is part of a cell and that has a granularity level equal to that of a protein complex or higher .
a solution obtained by rupturing cells  ( especially unfertilized oocytes )  and removing all particulate matter .
region of the oocyte vegetal cortex that contains a subdomain of er organized on top of the mitochondrial cloud and where localization of vg1 mrna takes place .
contractile ring formed at the division plane of the oocyte during first cleavage .
a major subdivision of a limb .
stylopod  ( the limb segment closest to the body )  that is part of a forelimb .
stylopod  ( the limb segment closet to the body )  that is part of a hindlimb .
limb segment that is the middle part of the forelimb  ( i .e .
limb segment that is the middle part of the hindlimb  ( i .e .
terminal portion of a forelimb .
terminal portion of a hindlimb that bears weight and allows locomotion .
part of the diencephalon that is located between the prethalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  and the telencephalon .
structure that comprises the roof region of the telencephalon .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal part of the diencephalon and the major sensory input to which is visual .
multi - tissue structure forming the anterior part of the diencephalon and lying between the thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  and eminentia thalami .
a narrow stripe of cells that lies between the prospective dorsal and ventral thalami .
a midline paired symmetrical structure within the brain ;  the main product of the embryonic diencephalon .
mesoderm that will give rise ,  along with cranial neural crest cells ,  to connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in the head .
any of the non - neuronal cells that maintain homeostasis ,  form myelin ,  and provide support and protection for neurons in the brain ,  and for neurons in other parts of the nervous system such as in the autonomic nervous system .
any of the cells that are of neural crest origin ,  now in place in their postmigratory target tissues ,  such as the sciatic nerve ,  dorsal root ganglia ,  gut or skin .
bone of the ear that is connected to the tympanic membrane via the extrastapes .
a portion of limb tissue that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
a portion of fin tissue that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
anatomical region at which two or more bones make contact and that includes some of the surrounding tissues of various types .
a joint region within a digit ,  one of several most distal parts of a limb .
a cell of the perichondrium ,  the fibrous membrane of connective tissue covering the surface of cartilage .
anatomical region between digits ,  the most distal parts of a limb .
a portion of tissue that has been removed from the body .
a portion of fin tissue that has been removed from the body .
a portion of limb tissue that has been removed from the body .
multipotent stromal cell that can differentiate into a variety of cell types ,  including: osteoblasts / osteocytes  ( bone cells )  ,  chondroblasts / chondrocytes  ( cartilage cells )  ,  and adipoblasts / adipocytes  ( fat cells )  .
lymphatic vessel located in the posterior dorsal region of the trunk .
any of the muscles that are part of the head .
any of the paired mandibular arch muscles .
any of the bilateral hyoid arch muscles innervated by cranial nerve vii .
any of the muscles that support the filigreed structure of the gill basket necessary for filter feeding ,  through the stabilisation ,  extension and compression of the gill basket .
straplike muscle that arises from elements of the pectoral girdle and passes to the hyoid bone and laryngeal cartilages .
a muscle that is part of the eye region and controls the movement of the eye .
muscle that is part a complex that arises from the skull roof and acts to elevate or close the lower jaw .
muscle that is part a complex that arises from the skull roof and acts to elevate or close the lower jaw .
muscle that is part a complex that arises from the skull roof and acts to elevate or close the lower jaw .
muscle that is part a complex that arises from the skull roof and acts to elevate or close the lower jaw .
muscle that is part a complex that arises from the skull roof and acts to elevate or close the lower jaw .
ventral muscle of the larval head that is a broad transverse sheet lying between the meckel's cartilages and joining its opposite mid - ventrally in an median raphe .
hyoid arch muscle that connects meckel's cartilage with the palatoquadrate and supports the opening of the mouth by depressing meckel's cartilage .
large ,  tapering muscle that originates on the muscular process and inserts on the ceratohyal .
a thin curved muscle located between the ceratohyal cartilages .
deep ,  visceral muscle associated with tongue movement .
muscle situated between the planum hypobranchiale and the basihyobranchial ,  presumably to stabilize the connection between these elements .
muscle that springs from the second branchial arch ,  meeting its opposite in a mid - ventral raphe .
the 1st branchial levator muscle ,  which contributes to raising the branchial apparatus .
the 2nd branchial levator muscle ,  which contributes to raising the branchial apparatus .
the 3rd branchial levator muscle ,  which contributes to raising the branchial apparatus .
the 4th branchial levator muscle ,  which contributes to raising the branchial apparatus .
muscle that arises on part of the chondrocranium and passes to the ventro - lateral region of the cerato - branchialia .
muscle that arises on part of the chondrocranium and passes to the ventro - lateral region of the cerato - branchialia .
muscle that arises on part of the chondrocranium and passes to the ventro - lateral region of the cerato - branchialia .
muscle that consists of dorsal and ventral parts that arise from medial raphe and insert on the arytenoid cartilages .
muscle that arises from the edge of levator arcus branchialis iv and inserts on the arytenoid cartilage and the cricoid ring .
type of muscle that attaches to the larynx .
muscle in the orbit that inserts on the anterior side of the eye and the function of which is adduction of the eyeball .
muscle in the orbit that inserts on the posterior side of the eye and the function of which is adduction of the eyeball .
muscle in the orbit that depresses ,  adducts ,  and helps extort  ( rotate laterally )  the eye .
muscle in the orbit ,  the primary function is of which is elevation .
thin ,  narrow muscle placed near the anterior margin of the floor of the orbit .
muscle in the upper ,  medial side of the orbit whose primary action is downward ,  lateral rotation of the eye .
cartilaginous element that is median and is the anterior - most cartilage of the ventral hyoid arch .
the cartilaginous element below the epibranchial in branchial arch 1 .
the cartilaginous element below the epibranchial in branchial arch 2 .
the cartilaginous element below the epibranchial in branchial arch 3 .
the cartilaginous element below the epibranchial in branchial arch 4 .
cartilaginous element comprising the rostral connection of the palatoquadrate cartilage to the neurocranium .
cartilaginous element that supports the anterior end of the nasal organ .
the space where the trabeculae of the tadpole chondrocranium have not yet fused .
one of the cartilaginous surfaces of the tadpole jaw .
the wide gap that separates the palatoquadrate from the neurocranium .
cartilaginous element comprising cartilages that articulate with meckel's cartilage in the lower jaw and are fused medially .
cartilaginous element comprising the anterior process of ceratohyal cartilage derived from the hyoid neural crest stream .
cartilaginous element comprising the articular process that forms the jaw joint with the posterior end of meckel's cartilage .
cartilaginous element comprising the ascending process that helps anchor the larval palatoquadrate to the neurocranium .
rod - shaped paired cartilages located on either side of the notochord and involved in the formation of the base of the chondrochranium .
cartilaginous element comprising the lateral process of ceratohyal cartilage derived from the hyoid neural crest stream .
one of the cartilaginous elements that meet and articulate in the median plane posterior to the basibranchial .
cartilaginous element that is posterior to the cornua trabeculae .
cartilaginous element comprising the muscular process ,  a flattened triangular process that is the site of attachment for the orbitohyoideus and suspensoriohyoideus muscles .
cartilaginous element comprising the posterior process of ceratohyal cartilage derived from the hyoid neural crest stream .
cartilaginous element comprising the dorsal component of the mandibular arch .
cartilaginous element that forms at the posteroventral tip of meckel's cartilage .
cartilaginous element that comprises a crescent - shaped plate that supports the tentacular cartilage in the upper jaw .
cartilaginous element comprising a pair of chondrification centers in the base of the embryonic cartilaginous neurocranium .
peripherally located part of the vegetal cell mass of prospective endoderm .
cartilaginous element that comprises the network - like cartilaginous skeleton of the gill region .
region of the ciliary marginal zone ,  at the edge  ( most distal region )  where retinal stem cells are located .
region of the ciliary marginal zone where retinal progenitor cells are located .
ganglion in the midbrain that gives rise to the fibers of the oculomotor nerve .
multi - tissue structure that is the dorsal part of the thalamus and emerges ventral to the caudal portion of the ventral habenular nucleus .
the nucleus of the trochlear nerve  ( cranial nerve iv )  .
a type of mucus surface cell in the tadpole .
type of epithelium in the embryonic epidermis that is mucus - secreting and ciliated .
the presumptive cells of the hatching gland ,  present by the end of gastrulation .
centrally located part of the vegetal cell mass of prospective endoderm .
regenerating tissue consisting of mesenchyme cells at the tip of the regenerating limb .
a layer of epidermal cells that initially covers the surface of an amputation site .
regenerating tissue that forms the inner or basal layer of wound epidermis .
regenerating tissue that forms the outer layer of wound epidermis .
tissue consisting of a cartilaginous rod or rods of a regenerating zeugopod segment of a limb .
a layer of signaling cells at the apex of a regenerating blastema ,  which has a vital role in regeneration .
following amputation in late prometamorphosis or in young froglets ,  tissue comprising fibroblast - like cells in a limb stump that aggregate beneath the wound epithelia .
regenerative tissue that develops and covers cut bone in the tadpole .
the predominant cell type in the epidermis ,  the primary function of which is the formation of a barrier against environmental damage .
a type of special epithelial cell that secretes mucus into the subsurface extracellular compartments of the epidermis .
presumptive structure that will develop into axial mesoderm .
mesenchyme that occupies the proximal region of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that occupies the anterior proximal region of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that occupies the posterior proximal region of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that occupies the interdigital region of a limb bud .
portion of tissue that migrates and deposits immature neuromasts and interneuromasts .
the 2nd most posterior of the hind digits ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  2 phalanges ,  and a claw .
the 3rd most posterior ,  or middle ,  of the hind digits ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  3 phalanges ,  and a claw .
the 2nd most anterior of the hind digits ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  3 phalanges ,  and a claw .
the most anterior and longest of the hind digits ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  3 phalanges ,  and a claw .
portion of tissue consisting of unkeratinized cells at the most distal end of a developing digit and which will become a claw .
claw located at the end of the 1st hindlimb digit .
claw located at the end of the 2nd hindlimb digit .
claw located at the end of the 3rd hindlimb digit .
claw located at the end of the 4th hindlimb digit .
claw located at the end of the 5th hindlimb digit .
ganglion that develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the posterior lateral line system .
the blood vessels of the trunk region .
anatomical region comprising the central part of the retina .
the presumptive cells of the levator mandibulae longus internus muscle .
the presumptive cells of the levator mandibulae longus profundus muscle .
the presumptive cells of the levator mandibulae longus superior muscle .
the presumptive cells of the levator mandibulae articularis muscle .
the presumptive cells of the levator mandibulae externus muscle .
the presumptive cells of the intermandibularis muscle .
the presumptive cells of the quadrato - hyoangularis muscle .
the presumptive cells of the orbitohyoideus muscle .
the presumptive cells of the interhyoideus muscle .
the presumptive cells of the subarcualis rectus i muscle .
the presumptive cells of the transversus anterior muscle .
the presumptive cells of the transversus ventralis ii muscle .
the presumptive cells of the levator arcuum branchialium i muscles .
the presumptive cells of the levator arcuum branchialium ii muscles .
the presumptive cells of the levator arcuum branchialium iii muscles .
the presumptive cells of the levator arcuum branchialium iv muscles .
the presumptive cells of the constrictores branchiales ii muscles .
the presumptive cells of the constrictores branchiales iii muscles .
the presumptive cells of the constrictores branchiales iv muscles .
the presumptive cells of the geniohyoideus muscle .
the presumptive cells of the rectus cervicis muscle .
the presumptive cells of the constrictor laryngis muscle .
the presumptive cells of the dilatator laryngis muscle .
the presumptive cells of laryngeal muscle .
the presumptive cells of the rectus anterior muscle .
the presumptive cells of the rectus posterior muscle .
the presumptive cells of the rectus inferior muscle .
the presumptive cells of the rectus superior muscle .
the presumptive cells of the obliquus inferior muscle .
the presumptive cells of the obliquus superior muscle .
the presumptive cells of any of the cranial muscles .
a sharp boundary ,  running parallel to the outside of the embryo ,  between involuted mesoderm and external ectoderm .
ganglion that develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate a lateral line .
anatomical region comprising the peripheral part of the retina .
cartilaginous element that is below the trabecula and parachordal .
portion of tissue comprising the vascular layer of the eye ,  containing connective tissue and lying between the retina and the sclera .
site above the branchial arch complex where vagal neural crest cells temporarily arrest their migration before entering the pharyngeal arches and heart .
single cell layer of involuted endoderm lying beneath the prechordal plate .
embryonic endoderm that evaginates to form the paired pharyngeal pouches .
the most anterior segment of the developing hindbrain .
canal that connects the membranous labyrinth of the ear with the endolymphatic sac .
multi - tissue structure that comprises a secretory epithelial layer and a connective tissue layer .
cell component comprising the outer layers of the zygote .
multi - tissue structure that is the outermost layer of an organ .
a small tissue element in the form of a beam ,  strut ,  or rod that generally has a mechanical function and is usually composed of dense cartilaginous tissue .
a type of trabecula that consists of a rounded or irregular column that projects from the inner surface of the ventricle of the heart .
cardiac septum that separates the right atrium from the left atrium .
a large quadrangular cavity that precedes the atrium on the venous side of the heart .
embryonic structure that is induced by the organizer to become lateral mesoderm .
anatomical region that surrounds the otic vesicle .
a mature contractile cell ,  which has as part of its cytoplasm myofibrils organized in various patterns .
a myocyte of the skeletal muscle .
a myocyte of the smooth muscle .
the most posterior digit of a forelimb ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  3 phalanges ,  and a claw .
the second most posterior digit of a forelimb ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  3 phalanges ,  and a claw .
the second most anterior digit of a forelimb ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  3 phalanges ,  and a claw .
the most anterior digit of a forelimb ,  consisting of a single metatarsal ,  2 phalanges ,  and a claw .
neural crest - derived cell type that gives rise to the epicardium .
cell that is present in the stem cell region of the retinal ciliary marginal zone .
cell that is present in the progenitor cell region of the retinal ciliary marginal zone .
an endocrine cell that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones in response to neuronal signals .
anatomical structure that has as its direct parts two or more types of tissue and is continuous with one or more anatomical structures likewise constituted by two or more portions of tissues distinct from those of their complement .
organ part consisting of the rounded end of a long bone  ( at its joint with adjacent bone )  ,  which in xenopus are the tibia - fibula and femur of the hindlimb ,  and the radio - ulna and humerus of the forelimb .
organ part consisting of the main section or midsection of a long bone ,  which in xenopus are the tibia - fibula and femur of the hindlimb ,  and the radio - ulna and humerus of the forelimb .
a cone - shaped hypomorphic structure consisting of a single continuous cartilage ,  typical of a regenerated forelimb or hindlimb when amputated after a specific developmental stage .
the apical region of a developing forelimb bud which will form the autopod segment of the forelimb .
the apical region of a developing hindlimb bud which will form the autopod segment of the hindlimb .
the physical groove that forms between cells at the first cell division .
the presumptive cells of the pelvic girdle .
a prominent ,  slender ,  rod - like projection of the iliac bone located close to the acetabiulum and directed posteriorly .
the presumptive cells of the iliac process .
either of the paired bones that are the dorsal - most and largest bones of the pelvic girdle .
any of the posterior and smaller bones of the pelvic girdle .
the ventral and anterior of the three principal bones composing the pelvic girdle .
vertebra posterior to the sacral vertebra .
any of the bony lateral projections from the presacral veterebrae of the anterior trunk region ,  enabling the lungs to expand and thus facilitate breathing by expanding the chest cavity .
a cell that is in the process of programmed cell death .
a cell that is in the process of replication ,  and is idenitifable by chromosomal replication .
a membrane that lines the outer surface of all bones ,  except at the joints of long bones .
the outer layer of the periosteum ,  containing acellular connective tissue and fibroblasts .
the inner layer of the periosteum ,  containing osteoblasts .
the tissue or tissues between the digits of the forelimb and the hindlimb .
skeletogenic cell that secretes osteoid ,  is capable of producing mineralized matrix ,  is located adjacent to or within osteoid tissue ,  and arises from the transformation of a preosteoblast cell .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular component .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the body wall lining and dermis .
type of precursor cell from which melanophores develop .
the endoderm cells that are fated to become the hindgut .
the endoderm cells that are fated to become the midgut .
the endoderm cells that are fated to become the foregut .
the anterior part of the optic tectum .
the posterior part of the optic tectum .
the upper surface of the vegetal yolk mass which forms the floor for the blastocoel  ( cavity )  of the early gastrula embryo .
a ciliated cell that is not part of the epidermis .
the proximal segment of the pronephric tubule ,  closest to the glomus and functioning in solute resorption and waste excretion .
the distal segment of the pronephric tubule ,  functioning in water resorption ,  with urine passing through it into the pronephric duct .
a distal stem cell region of the proximal tubule .
a fluid - filled cavity formed within the mesoderm of the embryo .
cell that is part of the neural crest region of the neuroepithelium ,  prior to migration .
any of the neurons specific to the gastrointestinal system .
the undifferentiated ,  loose connective tissue of the pharyngeal region ,  that is derived mostly from mesoderm ,  and also contains ectodermally derived neural crest cells .
water - filled cavity in the adult frog that is apposed to an olfactory epithelium for detection of aqueous odorants .
air - filled cavity in the adult frog apposed to an olfactory epithelium for detection of airborne odorants .
sensory neuron responsible for detection of odorants .
the 16th somite located posterior to the head .
portion of tissue in an eye consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body ,  and choroid .
the forebrain region that coordinates sensory signaling arising from the vomeronasal organ ;  it is located on the dorsal - posterior portion of the main olfactory bulb ,  and the axons that leave the accessory olfactory bulb project to targets in the amygdala and hypothalamus .
an almond - shaped set of neurons in the medial temporal lobe of the brain that is involved in the linkage of environmental information with social behavior and action selection .
a nucleus comprising the anterior aspect of the amygdala ,  adjacent to the basal forebrain ,  and involved in receiving olfactory information .
a forebrain white matter structure consisting of a large fiber bundle ,  connecting the two cerebral hemispheres across the middle line .
nucleus situated in the pallidum that provides auditory input to the torus semicircularis .
region of spinal cord white matter lying on either side between the ventral median fissure and the ventral roots of the spinal nerves .
nucleus situated in the thalamus that is associated with the limbic system and is implicated in learning and episodic memory .
nucleus located anterodorsally in the midbrain tegmentum .
nucleus located anteroventrally in the midbrain tegmentum .
a group of structures that lie in the ventralmost parts of the forebrain and are formed by the derivatives of the subpallium .
composite structure derived principally from the subpallium and containing numerous ganglia of the ventral telencephalon .
a brain structure in the forebrain wrapped around the stria terminalis .
a nucleus comprising the central aspect of the amygdala ,  identified as a target for ascending auditory information from the central thalamic nucleus and as a major afferent to the vocal pattern generator of the hindbrain .
spinal cord structure that is part of the ventricular system and is filled with cerebral - spinal fluid and runs the length of the spinal cord .
nucleus that is located centrally in the thalamus .
a nucleus that is situated in the brainstem .
cell mass in the caudal and dorsal aspect of the dorsal thalamus adjoining the pineal gland .
the predominant portion of the globus pallidus in the striatopallidal system ,  which is defined by connectivity and neurochemical staining .
subdivision of thepallium that is located dorsally .
a set of septal nuclei comprising the dorsal aspect of the forebrain septum .
cytoarchitectural part of the olfactory bulb ,  lying superior to the mitral cell layer and inferior to the glomerular layer .
superficial layer of the olfactory bulb ,  composed of spherical glomeruli ,  where input from olfactory receptor neurons is first organized and processed .
type of neuron characterized by having very small cell bodies .
the innermost layer of the cerebellar cortex ,  containing densely packed small neurons ,  mostly granule cells .
a layer of the olfactory bulb interior to the mitral cell layer ,  consisting of inhibitory interneurons .
region of the thalamus adjoining the pineal gland .
nucleus that is a prominant part of the visual system ,  receiving input from the ipsilateral tectum and sending output to both tecta .
a nucleus comprising the lateral aspect of the amygdala ,  implicated in fear conditioning .
a fiber system that is formed by pallial and subpallial components that join in the caudal telencephalon .
region of spinal cord white matter that is both ventral to the dorsal root and dorsal to the ventral root .
diencephalic nucleus that is the lateral part of the ventral hypothalamic zone .
subdivision of the pallium that is located laterally .
a set of septal nuclei comprising the lateral aspect of the forebrain septum .
a nucleus situated in the brainstem ,  spanning the midbrain tegmentum and the pontine tegmentum .
nucleus within the brainstem that is the principal site for brain synthesis of norepinephrine .
a nucleus situated in the preoptic area that contains large neurosecretory neurons .
a nucleus comprising the medial aspect of the amygdala ,  involved in receiving olfactory information .
subdivision of the pallium that is located in the medial position .
a set of septal nuclei comprising the medial aspect of the forebrain septum .
large glutaminergic nerve cell whose dendrites synapse with axons of the olfactory receptor neurons in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb ,  and whose axons pass centrally in the olfactory tract to the olfactory cortex .
layer composed of pyramidal neurons whose cell bodies are located between the granule cell layer and the plexiform layer .
a region of the brain consisting of a collection of neurons located in the forebrain ventral to the caudate and putamen .
a brain structure that is part of the septal nuclear complex and is connected with the hippocampus ,  hypothalamus ,  and amygdala .
major component of the basal ganglia that is part of the telencephalon and has close functional ties with the subthalamus .
diencephalic tract that is located in the vicinity of the dorsal diencephalon and mesencephalon and connects the pretectal nuclei .
region of spinal cord white matter that is dorsal and medial to the dorsal root .
nucleus located posterodorsally in the midbrain tegmentum .
nucleus located posteroventrally in the midbrain tegmentum .
area of the forebrain anterior to the posterior tuberculum and the hypothalamus and ventral to the ventral thalamus .
a cluster of nuclei found in the brain stem ,  the main function of which is to release serotonin to the rest of the brain .
gray matter structure located on the midline of the forebrain consisting of the septum pellucidum and the septal nuclei .
a compact fiber bundle that extends longitudinally through the posterolateral region of the medulla and is surrounded by the nucleus of the solitary tract ,  and descends to the upper cervical segments of the spinal cord .
a region of the forebrain consisting of the caudate nucleus ,  putamen and fundus striati .
a small ependymal gland of the circumventricular system ,  located in the dorsocaudal region of the third ventricle .
the lens - shaped nucleus located in the ventral part of the subthalamus on the inner aspect of the internal capsule that is concerned with the integration of somatic motor function .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the midbrain and develops from the alar plate .
cell mass in the caudal and ventral aspect of the dorsal thalamus adjoining the pineal gland .
nucleus that is located ventrally in the hypothalamus .
part of the globus pallidus consisting of the more medial of the two segments .
the pallial region located next to the pallium - subpallium boundary .
nucleus situated in the thalamus that receives inputs from the basal nuclei and the function of which is to help coordinate and plan movement .
nucleus situated in the thalamus to which somatosensory input is predominantly directed .
a metameric segment of the central nervous system .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive forebrain .
the 4th segment of the developing forebrain .
the 5th segment of the developing forebrain .
the 6th segment of the developing forebrain .
one of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord ,  that are lined with an epithelial ependyma ,  and that contain cerebral - spinal fluid .
a protrusion at the posterior end of the hypothalamus that contains hypothalamic nuclei .
structure that lies rostral to the area of the tegmentum and that is a site of dopamine - containing cells .
either of the two brain ventricles that are bilateral  ( left and right ,  one for each hemisphere )  .
brain ventricle formed by a median cleft in the diencephalon between the two thalami .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
the lateral ventricle that is located in the left hemisphere of the brain .
the lateral ventricle that is located in the right hemisphere of the brain .
type of epithelial cell that secretes a macromolecule or ion product .
epidermal cell that lacks cilia .
the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia and is responsible for their movements .
a membrane - tethered ,  short cylindrical array of microtubules and associated proteins found at the base of a cilium that is similar in structure to a centriole and derives from it .
the ventrolateral regions of the neural tube ,  above to the floor plate region and encompassing structurally distinct interneurons  ( in lateral positions )  and the more ventral motor neurons .
the dorsolateral regions of the neural tube ,  ventral to the roof plate region and encompassing structurally distinct sensory neurons  ( more dorsally )  and interneurons  ( in lateral positions )  .
the region of presomitic mesoderm that lays immediately adjacent and posterior to the last formed somite .
the most posterior region of presomitic mesoderm where somitomeres have yet to be fated .
cranial placode with neurogenic potential .
an epithelial cell that is part of the epidermis .
compartment of tail somite 18 that is a precursor of muscle .
compartment of tail somite 18 that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
blood vessel that is part of the fin .
blood vessel that is part of the dorsal fin .
blood vessel that is part of the ventral fin .
blood vessel that is part of the ventral blood island .
the erythroid - forming compartment of the ventral blood island .
a tissue whose predominant feature is extracellular matrix that may or may not be highly hydrated or calcified .
mineralized bone tissue that has terminally differentiated osteoblasts but lacks osteocytes .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
epithelium that covers the small and large intestine in the larval frog .
epithelium that covers the small and large intestine in the adult frog .
astrocyte - like radial glial cell that extends vertically throughout the retina ,  with the nucleus usually in the middle of the inner nuclear layer .
array of microtubules and associated molecules that forms between opposite poles of a cell during mitosis or meiosis and serves to move the duplicated chromosomes apart .
migrating motile tip of a growing nerve cell axon or dendrite .
a cellular organelle ,  found close to the nucleus in many cells ,  consisting of a small cylinder with microtubular walls ,  300 - 500 nm long and 150 - 250 nm in diameter .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of dna and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
the region of a chromosome that is attached to the spindle during nuclear division .
a structure comprising a core structure and peripheral material from which a microtubule - based structure ,  such as a spindle apparatus ,  is organized .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
a neuron projection that has a short ,  tapering ,  often branched ,  morphology ,  receives and integrates signals from other neurons or from sensory stimuli ,  and conducts a nerve impulse towards the axon or the cell body .
a cell that has a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
a neuron of the spinal cord .
the embryonic right and left aortas that develop in parallel with the heart and gain access to it via the aortic arches .
a connective tissue cell of any organ .
a cell that is located in the interstitial space between the seminiferous tubules and produces male androgens .
a type of cell comprising the main structural component of the liver .
a surface structure principally responsible for the production of noxious or toxic secretion with an effect on numerous species of vertebrates .
a sensory epithelium inside the nasal cavity that is responsible for detecting odors .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in a variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
embryonic structure that gives rise to a rhombomere .
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the forebrain and midbrain .
layer of the optic tectum that contains radial glial and other non - neuronal cells .
layer of the optic tectum that mainly consists of ascending sensory axons and tectal dendrites .
layer of the optic tectum that consists of tectal somata .
a cell present in the developing central nervous system .
a cell that ,  in the early stages of the brain ,  are generated from the ectoderm - derived neural epithelium and commit to differentiate into either neurons or radial glial cells .
a cell that ,  like a stem cell ,  has a tendency to differentiate into a specific type of cell ,  but is already more specific than a stem cell and is pushed to differentiate into its target cell .
a progenitor cell of the nervous system .
any of a pair of large ,  easily identifiable ,  reticulospinal neurons at the level of the ear in the hindbrain .
a calcified dermal layer that is found between the stratum spongiosum and the stratum compactum of the skin .
any of the hematopoietic stem cell derived phagocytic cells that are first observed in the ventral blood island at nf stages 17 - 18 and at stage 20 begin to migrate over the whole embryo between the epidermis and the mesoderm ,  completing their migration by stage 25 .
the anterior  ( superior )  of the two vertically oriented semicircular canals ,  which are situated at right angles to each other .
the laterally ,  or horizontally ,  oriented of the three semicircular canals .
the posterior of the two vertically oriented semicircular canals ,  which are situated at right angles to each other .
an elongated ,  spindle - shaped cell that is located between the basal lamina and the plasmalemma of a muscle fiber .
a glial cell that ensheaths axons of neurons in the peripheral nervous system and is necessary for their maintainance and function .
dorsal endoderm that is adjacent to the notochord .
the caudal zone of the tuberal region of the hypothalamus .
the rostral zone of the tuberal region of the hypothalamus .
a series of nuclei forming a column of grey matter embedded in the medulla ,  through the center of which runs the solitary tract .
the ventral half of the developing neural tube that is the prethalamus .
cell area that receives signals from the solitary nucleus and transmits signals to the medulla oblongata ,  spinal cord ,  amygdala ,  and hypothalamus .
hypothalamic region that with the mammillary nuclei forms the mammillary complex .
medial nucleus of the reticular nucleus of the brain stem .
superior nucleus of the reticular nucleus of the brain stem .
inferior nucleus of the reticular nucleus of the brain stem .
a set of septal nuclei comprising the ventral aspect of the forebrain septum .
the dorsal region of the alar hypothalamus .
a structure in the brain consisting of a band of fibers running along the lateral margin of the ventricular surface of the thalamus .
dermal layer containing loose connective tissue and several types of glands .
dermal layer composed of alternating sheets of parallel fibers .
a type of smooth muscle - like pericyte that abuts and surrounds the filtration capillaries within the glomerulus .
an epithelial cell that is part of the glomus .
an embryonic progenitor cell type that comprises a population that provides the epicardium ,  the majority of the cardiac interstitium ,  the coronary vasculature ,  and possibly some cardiomyocytes .
part of the double coil of the small intestine ,  consisting of anti - clockwise loops of intestine proximal to the internal coil .
part of the double coil of the small intestine ,  consisting of clockwise loops of intestine distal to the external coil .
nerve that provides the connection to the nervous system for nearly the whole of the skin of the leg ,  the muscles of the back of the thigh ,  and those of the leg and foot .
the location where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve .
a longitudinal fold of the wall projecting into the cavity of the intestine .
an axon that is part of a motor neuron and which projects outside the spinal cord to directly or indirectly control muscles .
a hindlimb muscle that is used in locomotion and which contains a population of slow or tonic fibers ,  as well as twitch fibers .
a shallow ,  longitudinal groove separating the developing gray matter into a basal and alar plates along the length of the neural tube .
a gland that is part of the skin .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
a gland of the skin in which some secretory cells are serous and some mucous .
any of the branched tubuloalveolar glands situated in the mucous membrane of the olfactory region of the nasal cavity that produce mucus to moisten the olfactory epithelium and dissolve odor - containing gases .
a defined region within the ventral telencephalon that gives rise to gabaergic and cholinergic cortical interneurons and is also a source of early - born oligodendrocytes in the telencephalon .
multinucleate cell formed by later myoblasts that cling by pseudopodia pushed into the surfaces of existing myotubes ,  and that instead of fusing with the myotube fuse with each other .
muscle - forming part of each myotome that splits from the ventrolateral edge and gives rise to the epaxial musculature .
muscle - forming part of each myotome that splits from the dorsomedial edge and gives rise to the hypaxial musculature .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a gelatinous layer that surrounds the oocyte and releases chemoattractants that activate and guide sperm to the oocyte .
a special form of chromosome found in growing oocytes ,  transforming into the lampbrush form because of an active transcription of many genes ,  and organized into a series of chromomeres with large chromatin loops extended laterally .
a cell - free extract obtained from oocytes .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective dorsal midline of the animal hemisphere at the eight - cell stage .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective dorsal midline of the vegetal hemisphere at the eight - cell stage .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective ventral midline of the animal hemisphere at the eight - cell stage .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective ventral midline of the vegetal hemisphere at the eight - cell stage .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective dorsal midline of the animal hemisphere at the 16 - cell stage .
blastomere which lies in the animal hemisphere lateral to blastomere d1 .1 at the 16 - cell stage .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective dorsal midline of the vegetal hemisphere at the 16 - cell stage .
blastomere which lies in the vegetal hemisphere lateral to blastomere d2 .1 at the 16 - cell stage .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective ventral midline of the animal hemisphere at the 16 - cell stage .
blastomere which lies in the animal hemisphere lateral to v1 .1 at the 16 - cell stage .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective ventral midline of the vegetal hemisphere at the 16 - cell stage .
blastomere which lies in the vegetal hemisphere lateral to v2 .1 at the 16 - cell stage .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective dorsal midline in the first tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective dorsal midline ,  posterior to its sister cell ,  blastomere d1 .1 .1 ,  in the second tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies lateral to blastomere d1 .1 .1 and is in the first tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies lateral to blastomere d1 .1 .2 ,  posterior to its sister cell ,  blastomere d1 .2 .1 ,  in the second tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective dorsal midline in the fourth tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective dorsal midline ,  anterior to its sister cell ,  blastomere d2 .1 .1 ,  in the third tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies lateral to blastomere d2 .1 .1 in the fourth tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies lateral to blastomere d2 .1 .2 ,  anterior to its sister cell ,  blastomere d2 .2 .1 ,  in the third tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective ventral midline in the first tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective ventral midline ,  posterior to its sister cell ,  blastomere v1 .1 .1 ,  in the second tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies lateral to blastomere v1 .1 .1 and is in the first tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies lateral to blastomere v1 .1 .2 ,  posterior to its sister cell ,  blastomere v1 .2 .1 ,  in the second tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective ,  ventral midline in the fourth tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies adjacent to the prospective ventral midline ,  anterior to its sister cell ,  blastomere v2 .1 .1 ,  in the third tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies lateral to blastomere v2 .1 .1 ,  in the fourth tier of blastomeres .
blastomere which lies lateral to blastomere v2 .1 .2 ,  anterior to its sister cell ,  blastomere v2 .2 .1 ,  in the third tier of blastomeres .
blastomere that is any of blastomeres d2 .1 and d2 .2 and their children cells after division ,  d2 .1 .1 ,  d2 .1 .2 ,  d2 .2 .1 and d2 .2 .2 ,  on the left and right sides of embryo .
blastomere that is any of blastomeres d1 .1 and d1 .2 and their children cells after division ,  d1 .1 .1 ,  d1 .1 .2 ,  d1 .2 .1 and d1 .2 .2 ,  on the left and right sides of embryo .
blastomere that is any of blastomeres v2 .1 and v2 .2 and their children cells after division ,  v2 .1 .1 ,  v2 .1 .2 ,  v2 .2 .1 and v2 .2 .2 ,  on the left and right sides of embryo .
blastomere that is any of blastomeres v1 .1 and v1 .2 and their children cells after division ,  v1 .1 .1 ,  v1 .1 .2 ,  v1 .2 .1 and v1 .2 .2 ,  on the left and right sides of embryo .
a cell in the pituitary gland  ( hypophysis )  that generates melanocyte - stimulating hormone from its precursor polypeptide ,  pro - opiomelanocortin  ( pomc )  .
a characteristic ,  electrondense germ plasm organelle encapsulating the cytoplasmic face of the nuclear envelope of the cells destined to the germline fate .
the cytoplasm of the oocyte .
cell component comprising the outer layers of the oocyte .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
embryonic region which is specified to form the head of the embryo .
any of the long ,  generally straight ,  hollow tubes of internal diameter 12 - 15 nm and external diameter 24 nm found in a wide variety of eukaryotic cells ;  each consists  ( usually )  of 13 protofilaments of polymeric tubulin ,  staggered in such a manner that the tubulin monomers are arranged in a helical pattern on the microtubular surface ,  and with the alpha / beta axes of the tubulin subunits parallel to the long axis of the tubule ;  exist in equilibrium with pool of tubulin monomers and can be rapidly assembled or disassembled in response to physiological stimuli ;  concerned with force generation ,  e .g .
cell component comprising the outer layers of the vegetal region of the oocyte .
the epithelial layer of the lung .
the ventral part of the foregut .
the dorsal part of the foregut .
embryonic structure that consists of the anterior part of the foregut and develops into the esophagus and trachea .
the posterior part of the foregut .
the section of the stomach comprising the cardia ,  fundus ,  and stomach body .
the section of the stomach comprising the antrum and pylorus .
a characteristically star - shaped type of glial cell found in the optic nerve ,  brain and spinal cord .
the terminal process of an astrocyte .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system that form the insulating myelin sheath of axons .
the smallest glial cell type in the central nervous system ,  cells of this type actively detect inflammatory responses / infection .
an endocrine cell that is located in the epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract or in the pancreas .
tissue which during gastrulation involutes into the interior of the embryo ,  where its deep mesenchymal cells form the notochordal and somitic mesoderm and its superficial epithelial cells form the endodermal roof of the archenteron .
a ciliated cell that has a single cilium .
the cytoplasm beneath the outer layers of the oocyte .
a ciliated cell that has more than one cilium .
a structure derived from the foregut that becomes a lung .
a cartilaginous extension of the stapes that expands into a cartilaginous tympanic disk .
the bony part of the stapes which forms the shaft .
a cartilaginous component of the stapes that is firmly attached to the proximal end of the pars media .
that part of the stapes lying within the oval window ,  formed from the stapes pars interna .
the section of the stomach which lies between the cardia and the stomach body ,  and contains the fundic glands .
entrance to the inner ear in the lateral wall of the otic capsule ,  which contains the footplate of the stapes .
cartilaginous extension of the prootic bone which overlies the middle ear region .
a muscle acting to open the lower jaw ,  which runs from the caudal otic region downwards ,  passing over the stapes .
superior aspect of the cranial muscle that passes between the otic capsule and the scapula .
inferior aspect of the cranial muscle that passes between the otic capsule and the scapula .
a long ,  strap - like muscle that originates mainly from the parotic crest ,  passes over the stapes and ultimately inserts on the ventral surface of the larynx .
a muscle that originates on the otic capsule and adjacent tympanic annulus ,  and inserts on the pectoral girdle .
the oval shaped cartilaginous ring that supports the cartilaginous tympanic disk .
anatomical line that divides the archenteron roof into right and left halves .
the section of the stomach which lies between the fundus and the pyloric antrum .
the section of the stomach which lies between the stomach body and pylorus ,  and that contains gastrin - producing g cells ,  which stimulate acid production ,  and the luminal ph - sensitive population of somatostatin - producing d cells .
the stomach tissue region which surrounds and controls the distal outlet of the stomach ,  which opens into the duodenum ,  and contains the pyloric glands .
the section of the stomach which is attached to the esophagus and contains the cardiac glands .
a tiny skeletal element adjacent to the anterior - most digit in the autopod in the developing forelimb ,  possibly representing a vestigal digit .
a tiny skeletal element adjacent to the anterior - most digit in the autopod in the developing hindlimb  ( i .e . ,  hindlimb digit 5 )  ,  possibly representing a vestigal 6th digit in xenopus .
skeletal subdivision comprising the skeletal elements of the mandibular arch .
a region of the embryo that is located broadly around the heart ,  but ventral to the pharyngeal region ,  posterior to the cement gland ,  and anterior to the endoderm or organs of endodermal origin  ( foregut ,  liver and lung primordia )  .
a type of endocrine cell in the pancreatic islets of the pancreas .
a type of cell that is found in the pancreatic islets of the pancreas and secretes insulin .
somatostatin - producing cell that is found in the stomach ,  intestine and the pancreatic islets .
a type of endocrine cell that is found in the islets of langerhans and produces the hormone ghrelin .
a type of cell that produces pancreatic polypeptides in the pancreatic islets  ( the islets of langerhans )  of the pancreas .
the presumptive cells of the organizing region which is formed by the posterior layer of the gastrocoel roof plate during early neurulation .
region which is formed by the posterior layer of the gastrocoel roof plate during neurulation and has functionality in determining organ and axis symmetry .
the outermost extent of a fin ,  comprising a region of high cell replication during anterior - posterior axis extension throughout the tadpole stages .
the blastomere of the future left side of the embryo at the 2 - cell stage .
the blastomere of the future right side of the embryo at the 2 - cell stage .
the blastomere of the future left - dorsal portion of the embryo at the 4 - cell stage .
the blastomere of the future right - dorsal portion of the embryo at the 4 - cell stage .
the blastomere of the future left - ventral portion of the embryo at the 4 - cell stage .
the blastomere of the future right - ventral portion of the embryo at the 4 - cell stage .
a ciliated epidermal cell that has a single cilium .
a ciliated epidermal cell that has more than one cilium .
cell type that gives rise to multiciliated cells .
an interneuron which grows from the soma in an ascending  ( from tail to head )  direction .
an interneuron which grows from the soma in a descending  ( from head to tail )  direction .
an interneuron which starts to grow on one side of the body and navigates in the ventral direction .
an ascending neuron ,  originating in the spinal cord ,  that is involved in the touch sensory pathway and lies adjacent to the rohon - beard neurons and close to the roof plate of the spinal cord .
a commissural neuron ,  originating in the spinal cord ,  that is involved in the touch sensory pathway and lies adjacent to the rohon - beard neurons and close to the roof plate of the spinal cord .
the glandular ,  anterior lobe of the pituitary gland  ( hypophysis )  .
the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland  ( hypophysis )  .
structure which comprises the majority of the anterior pituitary  ( adenohypophysis )  and where the bulk of pituitary hormone production occurs .
structure which constitutes the majority of the posterior pituitary  ( neurohypophysis )  and that is the storage site of oxytocin and vasopressin .
the boundary between the anterior and posterior lobes of the pituitary  ( hypophysis )  .
an unpaired bone in the skull that separates the nasal cavity from the brain .
anatomical cluster comprising the most anterior region of the braincase and providing structural support for the peripheral olfactory organ .
the lateral area of the two branches of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling in the future nasal region of the embryo .
the central area of the two limbs of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling that lie medial to the olfactory placode or pit in the future nasal region of the embryo .
the mesh - like system of enteric neurons that innervate the gastrointestinal tract ,  with neurons embedded in the lining of the gastrointestinal system ,  beginning at the esophagus and extending down to the cloaca .
a type of blood cell which is part of the innate immune system and is quickly recruited to sites of injury .
one of the 3 domains of the u - shaped preplacodal ectoderm ,  lying between the anterior ppe and posterior ppe domains .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
type of ganglia in the trunk region that connect the central nervous system with organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands ,  and are exclusively derived from trunk neural crest cells .
a straight line through space ,  intersecting an anatomical entity .
an axis that extends from the animal end of an egg or early embryo to the opposite ,  vegetal end .
an axis that extends through an organism from head end to opposite end of body or tail .
an axis that is approximately perpendicular to the anterior - posterior axis and that extends through the horizontal plane of the body .
an axis that bisects an organism from left to right sides of body ,  through a sagittal plane .
an anatomical region bounded by a plane perpendicular to an axis through the middle .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure anterior to a transverse plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure posterior to a transverse plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same horizontal plane .
an anatomical region that is the entire part of an anatomical structure ventral to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same horizontal plane .
the side of an organism that is left of the sagittal plane .
the side of an organism that is right of the sagittal plane .
an axis that extends from the point of attachment of a structure  ( proximal )  to the point furthest away from the plane of attachment  ( distal )  .
anatomical region located on the apical end on the body or body part .
anatomical region that runs down the center  ( axis )  of the body ,  encompassing everything exept the limbs .
anatomical region located basally on the body or body part .
anatomical region anteriorly located on the body or body part .
anatomical region posteriorly located on the body or body part .
anatomical region dorsally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region ventrally located on the body or body part .
anatomical region medially located on the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and dorsal regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the anterior and ventral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and dorsal regions of the body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the posterior and ventral regions of a body or body part .
the capsule surrounding the inner ear components .
any of the muscle precursor cells which emerge from the lower margin of the trunk somites ,  appear in a segmented pattern ,  and move through the lateral regions of the embryo to form the hypaxial muscle .
tissue that is the most anterior portion of the notochord and secretes reissner's fiber - related proteins ,  including f - spondin .
a neuron that transmits nerve impulses away from the central nervous system to the muscles or glands .
a neuron that transmits nerve impulses to the central nervous system from sensory stimuli .
the alimentary system of a postembryonic ,  hatched or immature tadpole ,  prior to metamorphosis .
the developing muscle surrounding the caudal end of the cloaca .
one of the two types of proton - secreteing cells  ( psc )  in amphibian skin ,  which play an important role in ion transport ,  alpha - pscs are characterised by expression of slc4a1  ( ae1 )  and localization of h + v - atpases at the apical plasma membrane .
one of the two types of proton - secreteing cells  ( psc )  in amphibian skin ,  which play an important role in ion transport ,  beta - pscs are characterised by expression of pendrin and localization of the h + v - atpase cytosolically or basolaterally in the plasma membrane .
one of the four cell types that are found in bilayered epithlium of the larval epidermis  ( the others being goblet cells ,  multicilliated cells ,  and ionocytes )  and have an abundance of large apical secretory vesicles and secrete a glyocoprotein with antimicrobial properties .
the dorsal part of the telencephalon .
type of adult stem cells that are induced by thyroid hormone  ( th )  and ,  during intestinal remodeling during metamorphosis ,  newly generate the absorptive epithelium .
the posterior portion of the notochord .
the anterior portion of the notochord .
tissue of the lens that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
layer of neurectoderm that develops into the roof plate of the spinal cord .
the posterior portions of the u - shaped neural folds ,  the two longitudinal dorsal ridges caused by a folding up of the ectoderm ,  which appear on either side of the middle line of the early neurula embryo .
a transient kidney that functions in embryos of amphibians  ( and fish )  while the mesonephros  ( which continue to grow into adult kidneys )  are developing and before they are fully functional .
either of the pair of structures lying on either side of the dorsal aorta in which fluid balance is regulated and waste is excreted out in the form of urine .
the most posterior zone of the neural tube ,  first evident at nf stage 17 ,  which develops where the neural tube passes into the archenteron roof around the dorsal blastoporal lip ,  becoming deeper during late neurula stages .
migratory neural crest cell that is part of the trunk neural crest .
endoderm that is part of the hindgut .
dorsal part of the posterior hindgut endoderm .
ventral part of the posterior hindgut endoderm .
posterior part of the hindgut endoderm .
anterior part of the hindgut endoderm .
a functional unit located near the cell apex at the points of contact between epithelial cells ,  which in vertebrates is composed of the tight junction ,  the zonula adherens ,  and desmosomes .
thin ,  stiff ,  actin - based protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast ,  an axonal or dendritic growth cone ,  or a dendritic shaft .
part of the trunk located on the ventral side of the organism .
the posterior part of the tail .
the anterior part of the dorsal fin .
neuroectoderm that is located on the anterior side of the organism .
part of the tail located on the dorsal side of the organism .
part of the trunk located on the dorsal side of the organism .
a cell type that produces platelets and coagulating factors that react to bleeding from blood vessel injury by clumping ,  thereby initiating a blood clot .
a cell type that produces platelets and coagulating factors that react to bleeding from blood vessel injury by clumping ,  thereby initiating a blood clot ;  and that ,  in embryos ,  emerge from the ventral mesoderm ,  just anterior to the ventral blood island .
a cell type that produces platelets and coagulating factors that react to bleeding from blood vessel injury by clumping ,  thereby initiating a blood clot ;  and that ,  in adults ,  develop from hematopoietic stem cells .
pelvic girdle tissue that is re - growing after damage or amputation .
anatomical region that overlaps the ventral and lateral regions of a body or body part .
anatomical region that overlaps the dorsal and lateral regions of a body or body part .
an organelle that contains yolk for consumption during embryogenesis .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
the repeating unit of a myofibril in a muscle cell ,  composed of an array of overlapping thick and thin filaments between two adjacent z discs .
any microtubule that is part of a mitotic or meiotic spindle ;  anchored at one spindle pole .
any of the spindle microtubules that radiate in all directions from the spindle poles and are thought to contribute to the forces that separate the poles and position them in relation to the rest of the cell .
the presumptive cells of the jaw muscle .
a cell of the pia mater ,  the delicate fibrous meningeal coverings of the cns .
the innermost delicate fibrous meningeal coverings of the cns .
the unpigmented maturation spot which indicates germinal vesicle breakdown and thus maturation of an oocyte .
a 1 - 2 cell layer membrane comprising cells from the stomodeum and underlying endodermal layer .
cephalic nerve that innervates the nasal cavity and the eye .
cephalic nerve that innervates the maxillary sinus .
cephalic nerve that innervates the lower jaw .
cephalic nerve that is the largest branch of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve .
a cell junction at which anchoring proteins  ( cadherins or integrins )  extend through the plasma membrane and are attached to actin filaments .
the epithelium of the foregut .
the epithelium of the trachea .
the epithelium of the esophagus .
the epithelium of the stomach .
ventral region of early embryonic endoderm .
posterior region of the developing endoderm .
anterior region of the developing endoderm .
dorsal region of early embryonic endomesoderm .
ventral region of early embryonic endomesoderm .
anterior region of the developing endomesoderm .
posterior region of the developing endomesoderm .
a cardial valve in the atrioventricular region that separates the atrium from the ventricle and prevents backflow from the ventricles into the atria during systole .
a nerve that is part of the head .
the contractile element of skeletal and cardiac muscle ;  a long ,  highly organized bundle of actin ,  myosin ,  and other proteins that contracts by a sliding filament mechanism .
the midline of aligned thick filaments in a sarcomere ;  location of specific proteins that link thick filaments .
either of the paired endochondral bones forming the anterior and lateral walls of the otic capsules .
vein that is part of the periocular region .
head mesenchyme that is part of the periocular region .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell .
the portion of the actin cytoskeleton ,  comprising filamentous actin and associated proteins ,  that lies just beneath the plasma membrane .
a multi - tissue structure consisting of bone and soft tissue that forms a part of the roof of the oral cavity .
region of the face between the two inner  ( medial )  canthi of the eye .
an organism at the tadpole stage .
an immature cell which typically differentiates to form a mature lymphocyte .
ganglion that develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the anterior lateral line system .
subdomain that occupies the dorso - lateral portion of a somite and comprises tendon progenitor cells .
an arrangement of closely apposed microtubules running parallel to each other in the axon hillock and initial segment .
neural crest comprising sacral ,  vagal ,  and trunk neural crest .
a temporal interval that defines xenopus life from unfertilized egg to adult and death stages .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 1 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 0 hr and having the following external morphological criteria: one cell stage ,  shortly after fertilization .
tailbud stage that refers to the earlier events associated with this stage ,  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 22 to 28 .
embryonic stage during which the solid morula acquires an internal cavity ,  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 7 to 9 .
embryonic stage during which the zygote undergoes synchronous divisions into 2 ,  4 ,  8 ,  16 ,  etc .
embryonic stage during which gastrulation takes place ,  with a proportion of cells migrating below the surface of the embryo to form two inner layers  ( endoderm and mesoderm )  and the cells which remain outside spreading over the whole surface of the embryo to form the ectoderm ;  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 10 to 12 .5 .
embryonic stage during which the future nervous system appears as a thickened plate in dorsal ectoderm ,  the plate then rolling up at its sides to form a tube ;  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 13 to 21 .
embryonic stage during which neurulation is completed and tail formation begins ,  visible by an emerging tail primordium ;  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 22 to 44  ( feeding )  ,  including the beginning of hatching  ( nf stage 35 / 36 )  .
the post - embryonic xenopus developmental stage from feeding to the end of metamorphosis ,  encompassing weisz's first - form tadpole  ( equivalent to nieuwkoop and faber 45 to 49 )  ,  second - form tadpole  ( nf 49 to 56 )  and third - form tadpole  ( nf 56 to 60 - plus )  stages .
xenopus developmental stage that corresponds to a sexually immature post - tadpole animal .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 2 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: advanced two cell stage .
xenopus developmental stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the formed feeding larva .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 3 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 2 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: advanced four - cell stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 4 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 2 hr 15 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: advanced eight cell stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 5 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 2 hr 45 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: advanced sixteen cell stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 6 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 3 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: advanced thirty - two cell stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 7  ( 64 - cell stage )  ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 4 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: large - cell blastula stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 8  ( 128 - cell stage )  ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 5 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: medium - cell blastula stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 9 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 7 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: fine - cell blastula stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 10 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 9 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: initial gastrula stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 11 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 11 hr 45 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: horse - shoe - shaped blastopore stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 12 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 13 hr 15 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: medium yolk plug stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 13 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 14 hr 45 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: slit - blastopore stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 14 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 16 hr 15 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: neural plate stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 15 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 17 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: early neural fold stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 16 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 18 hr 15 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: mid neural fold stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 17 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 18 hr 45 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: late neural fold stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 2 -  ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 hr 15 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: beginning of first cleavage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 6 .5 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 3 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: morula stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 10 .25 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 10 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: early gastrula stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 10 .5 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 11 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: crescent - shaped blastopore stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 11 .5 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 12 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: large yolk plug stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 12 .5 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 14 hr 15 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: small yolk plug stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 18 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 19 hr 45 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: neural groove stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 19 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 20 hr 45 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: initial neural tube stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 20 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 21 hr 45 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: neural folds fused ,  suture still present .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 21 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 22 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: suture of neural tube completely closed .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 22 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 24 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: distinct protrusion of eyes .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 23 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  45 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: jaw -  and gill - areas completely separated by groove .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 24 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  2 hr 15 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: eyes protruding less far laterally than gill - area .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 25 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  3 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: eyes protruding equally far or further laterally than gill - area .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 26 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  5 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: otic vesicle protruding .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 27 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  7 hr 15 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: lateral flattening of eyes .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 28 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  8 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: fin extending up to anus .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 29 / 30 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  11 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: gray eye cup showing through for the first time .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 31 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  13 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: tail bud equally long as broad .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 32 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  16 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: eye cup horse - shoe - shaped ,  standing out distinctly .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 33 / 34 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 1 day ,  20 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: stomodeal invagination a shallow vertical groove .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 35 / 36 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 2 days ,  2 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: stomodeal invagination roundish .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 37 / 38 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 2 days ,  5 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: stomodeal invagination much deeper ,  opening round .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 39 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 2 days ,  8 hr 30 min at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: melanophores appearing around nasal pits .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 40 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 2 days ,  18 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: mouth broken through .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 41 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 3 days ,  4 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: gills broader and flatter ,  more laterally directed .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 42 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 3 days ,  8 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: beginning of formation of opercular folds .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 43 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 3 days ,  15 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: lateral line system becoming visible externally .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 44 ,  corresponding to an embryo of age 3 days ,  20 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: appearance of tentacle rudiments .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 45 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age 4 days ,  2 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: operculum partly covering gills ,  edge still straight .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 46 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age 4 days ,  10 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: edge of operculum becoming convex .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 47 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age 5 days ,  12 hr at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: tentacles larger .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 48 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age 7 .5 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: beginning of pigmentation around n . acusticus .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 49 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 12 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: melanophores usually appearing around thymus gland and nerves and blood vessels of head ;  xantophores appearing on pericard .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 50 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 15 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: forelimb bud somewhat oval - shaped in dorsal aspect .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 51 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 17 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: tentacles much longer .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 52 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 21 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: forelimb bud irregularly conical .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 53 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 24 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: fore -  and hindlimbs in paddle stage .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 54 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 26 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: all four fingers indicated ;  edge of hand slightly scalloped between fingers ;  melanophores appearing on forelimb .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 55 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 32 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: hand pronated about 90 degrees ;  free parts of fingers about equally long as broad .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 56 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 38 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: elbow and wrist clearly indicated ;  length of free parts of fingers 3 to 4 times their breadth .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 57 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 41 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: pigment - free spot appearing above  \ "stirnorgan \ " .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 58 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 44 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: forelimbs broken through .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 59 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 45 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: tentacles beginning to shrivel up .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 60 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 46 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: n . olfactorius still longer than bulbus olfactorius .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 61 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 48 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: head narrower .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 62 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 49 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: head still somewhat broader than cranial part of trunk .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 63 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 51 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: head narrower than trunk .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 64 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 53 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: corner of mouth well behind eye .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 65 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 54 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: borderlines between adult skin areas partly disappeared .
nieuwkoop and faber stage 66 ,  corresponding to a tadpole of age about 58 days at 22 - 24 celsius and having the following external morphological criteria: border lines between adult skin areas disappeared .
tadpole stage during which toe differentiation and rapid hindlimb growth continue ,  followed by tail resorption ;  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 54 to 66 .
tailbud stage that refers to the later events associated with this stage ,  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 29 / 30 to 44 .
any of the stages of the developing or mature xenopus female gamete .
the pre - vitellogenic stage of the developing female gamete .
the early vitellogenic stage of the developing female gamete .
the mid - vitellogenic stage of the developing female gamete .
the stage of the developing female gamete that corresponds to the establishment of polarization along the animal - vegetal axis of the gamete .
the late - vitellogenic stage of the developing female gamete .
the developmental stage of the female gamete at which the gamete is fully grown .
tadpole stage during which limb bud growth occurs ,  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 45 to 54 .
metamorphosing tadpole stage during which toe differentiation and rapid hindlimb growth continue ,  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 55 to 57 .
metamorphosing tadpole stage during which tail resorption occurs ,  comprising nieuwkoop and faber stages 58 to 66 .
the developmental stage of the female gamete at which the gamete has reached maturity .
xenopus developmental stage that corresponds to a fully formed ,  mature animal .
xenopus developmental stage that is one of the 66 standard chronological embryonic and tadpole stages originally described by nieuwkoop and faber in the normal table of xenopus laevis  ( daudin )  .
xenopus developmental stage that succeeds the embryonic stage .
a phenotype observed in xenopus .
abnormality of head .
abnormality of organism subdivision .
abnormality of cell .
abnormality of anatomical structure .
abnormality of epidermis .
abnormality of multi - tissue structure .
abnormality of multicellular anatomical structure .
abnormality of cardiac neural crest .
abnormality of heart .
abnormality of tissue .
abnormality of anterior placodal area .
abnormality of external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
abnormality of distal mesenchyme .
abnormality of mesenchyme .
abnormality of oocyte .
abnormality of germ cell .
abnormality of lower jaw .
abnormality of anatomical cluster .
abnormality of central nervous system .
abnormality of nervous system .
abnormality of fundus .
abnormality of blastomere v1 .1 .
abnormality of ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
abnormality of ovary .
abnormality of gonad .
abnormality of olfactory bulb .
abnormality of hepatic vein .
abnormality of vein .
abnormality of trunk somite 12 .
abnormality of trunk somite .
abnormality of cartilage element .
abnormality of skeletal element .
abnormality of chondrocranium .
abnormality of chondrocyte .
abnormality of head somite 1 .
abnormality of head somite .
abnormality of head vasculature .
abnormality of blood vessel .
abnormality of olfactory epithelium .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
abnormality of sclerotome .
abnormality of regenerating tail .
abnormality of regenerating tissue .
abnormality of anatomical space .
abnormality of myotome .
abnormality of animal hemisphere .
abnormality of urinary system .
abnormality of anatomical system .
abnormality of endoderm .
abnormality of mandibular artery .
abnormality of artery .
abnormality of olfactory placode .
abnormality of neurogenic placode .
abnormality of dorsal aorta .
abnormality of aorta .
abnormality of anatomical entity in vitro .
abnormality of rhombomere r3 .
abnormality of rhombomere .
abnormality of anatomical group .
abnormality of mesonephric sinus .
abnormality of venous endothelium .
abnormality of simple squamous epithelium .
abnormality of head somite 4 .
abnormality of optic tectum .
abnormality of cranial muscle .
abnormality of muscle .
abnormality of trunk .
abnormality of embryonic structure .
abnormality of mesoderm .
abnormality of involuted dorsal mesoderm .
abnormality of cell part .
abnormality of trigeminal nerve .
abnormality of cranial nerve .
abnormality of fin vasculature .
abnormality of peripheral nervous system .
abnormality of aortic arch 1 .
abnormality of aortic arch .
abnormality of genital system .
abnormality of endochondral bone .
abnormality of pelvic girdle .
abnormality of endochondral element .
abnormality of upper blastopore lip .
abnormality of tail tip .
abnormality of anterior lateral line placode .
abnormality of lateral line placode .
abnormality of mouth primordium .
abnormality of cranium .
abnormality of solid compound organ .
abnormality of neural plate .
abnormality of surface structure .
abnormality of neural tube .
abnormality of cardinal vein .
abnormality of trunk vasculature .
abnormality of intermediate mesoderm .
abnormality of paired dorsal aorta .
abnormality of branchial crest .
abnormality of primary germ layer .
abnormality of mesonephric mesenchyme .
abnormality of arteria mesenterica posterior .
abnormality of hypophyseal primordium .
abnormality of primordium .
abnormality of alimentary system .
abnormality of hepatic portal vein .
abnormality of foregut .
abnormality of optic tract .
abnormality of neuromere .
abnormality of hindbrain .
abnormality of presumptive rhombomere .
abnormality of central amygdala .
abnormality of neural nucleus .
abnormality of lateral pallium .
abnormality of somite .
abnormality of nerve .
abnormality of ectoderm .
abnormality of brain .
abnormality of anterior neural tube .
abnormality of neural stem cell .
abnormality of stem cell .
abnormality of pallidum .
abnormality of migrating neuroblast .
abnormality of stage vi oocyte .
abnormality of hindlimb digit .
abnormality of digit .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
abnormality of hindlimb bud .
abnormality of gastrocoel roof plate .
abnormality of tooth .
abnormality of eye .
abnormality of uveal tract .
abnormality of regenerating limb .
abnormality of delta cell .
abnormality of enteroendocrine cell .
abnormality of tail somite 15 .
abnormality of lens epithelium .
abnormality of epithelium .
abnormality of granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
abnormality of preoptic area .
abnormality of retromammillary area .
abnormality of neuron .
abnormality of subclavian vein .
abnormality of prehallux .
abnormality of cranial muscle primordium .
abnormality of left atrium .
abnormality of cavitated compound organ .
abnormality of embryo .
abnormality of endocrine cell .
abnormality of islets of langerhans .
abnormality of limb segment .
abnormality of nucleus accumbens .
abnormality of blastema .
abnormality of ventral aorta .
abnormality of pulmonary artery .
abnormality of trabecula cranii .
abnormality of right channel of ventral aorta .
abnormality of second pancreatic bud .
abnormality of first pancreatic bud .
abnormality of hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
abnormality of ionocyte .
abnormality of epithelial cell .
abnormality of basal ganglion .
abnormality of semicircular canal .
abnormality of membrane bone .
abnormality of bone element .
abnormality of facial nerve .
abnormality of lateral semicircular canal .
abnormality of endocrine system .
abnormality of vertebral element .
abnormality of hindlimb skeleton .
abnormality of skeletal subdivision .
abnormality of photoreceptor layer .
abnormality of brain ventricle .
abnormality of compound organ .
abnormality of lymphatic system .
abnormality of pars nervosa .
abnormality of anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
abnormality of oval window .
abnormality of mm .constrictores branchiales iv primordium .
abnormality of claw .
abnormality of acellular anatomical structure .
abnormality of hindlimb digit 1 .
abnormality of wound epidermis inner layer .
abnormality of right lymph heart .
abnormality of midbrain tegmentum .
abnormality of lateral line ganglion .
abnormality of cranial ganglion .
abnormality of trunk somite 13 .
abnormality of avascular gag - rich matrix .
abnormality of non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
abnormality of proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
abnormality of caudal vertebra .
abnormality of vertebra .
abnormality of astrocyte end - foot .
abnormality of pelvic appendage .
abnormality of paired appendage .
abnormality of diaphysis .
abnormality of organ part .
abnormality of endocardium .
abnormality of dermomyotome .
abnormality of multilaminar epithelium .
abnormality of aortic arch 4 .
abnormality of prethalamus .
abnormality of posterior crista .
abnormality of sensory epithelial cell .
abnormality of trunk neural crest .
abnormality of wound epidermis .
abnormality of circulatory system .
abnormality of mesonephric tubule .
abnormality of mesonephric nephron .
abnormality of coelom .
abnormality of visual system .
abnormality of sensory system .
abnormality of skeletal muscle .
abnormality of blastocoel .
abnormality of follicle cell .
abnormality of non - neural ectoderm .
abnormality of dorsal fin skeleton .
abnormality of median fin skeleton .
abnormality of pelvic girdle primordium .
abnormality of sclerotomal cartilage .
abnormality of tail vasculature .
abnormality of progenitor cell .
abnormality of heart primordium .
abnormality of chondroblast .
abnormality of trunk somite 9 .
abnormality of trunk somite 10 .
abnormality of pronephric duct .
abnormality of duct .
abnormality of extracellular matrix .
abnormality of tail region .
abnormality of humerus .
abnormality of vagal epibranchial placode .
abnormality of epibranchial placode .
abnormality of gamma cell .
abnormality of medulla oblongata .
abnormality of fin .
abnormality of tail fin .
abnormality of blastomere .
abnormality of early embryonic cell .
abnormality of vegetal hemisphere .
abnormality of elastic cartilage tissue .
abnormality of non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
abnormality of blastopore lip .
abnormality of neurohypophysis .
abnormality of gamete .
abnormality of respiratory system .
abnormality of middle lateral line .
abnormality of lateral line .
abnormality of eye muscle .
abnormality of m . obliquus superior primordium .
abnormality of intersomitic artery .
abnormality of intersomitic vessel .
abnormality of axial skeleton .
abnormality of visceral pouch .
abnormality of supraorbital lateral line .
abnormality of retinal blood vessel .
abnormality of tympanic annulus .
abnormality of m . interhyoideus primordium .
abnormality of germinal granule .
abnormality of pronephric mesenchyme .
abnormality of trunk placode .
abnormality of commissural interneuron .
abnormality of interneuron .
abnormality of zygote .
abnormality of lateral ganglionic eminence .
abnormality of circumblastoporal collar .
abnormality of midbrain .
abnormality of hand .
abnormality of forelimb skeleton .
abnormality of lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormality of portion of organism substance .
abnormality of hyaline cartilage tissue .
abnormality of anterior neural fold .
abnormality of axial ossicle .
abnormality of ossicle .
abnormality of appendicular skeleton .
abnormality of granule cell .
abnormality of neural plate border .
abnormality of amygdala .
abnormality of striatum .
abnormality of m . rectus anterior primordium .
abnormality of leydig cell .
abnormality of ganglion .
abnormality of trigeminal placode .
abnormality of aortic arch 6 .
abnormality of small intestine .
abnormality of acinar cell .
abnormality of cardiovascular system .
abnormality of mm .levator arcuum branchialium iii primordium .
abnormality of braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
abnormality of non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
abnormality of skeletal tissue .
abnormality of neural crest .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
abnormality of hyaloid blood vessel .
abnormality of hematological system .
abnormality of splanchnocranium .
abnormality of pharyngeal endoderm .
abnormality of anterior entopeduncular region .
abnormality of animal pole .
abnormality of connective tissue .
abnormality of perichondrium .
abnormality of periosteum .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
abnormality of mandibular head muscle .
abnormality of interdigital mesenchyme .
abnormality of amputated fin .
abnormality of amputated tissue .
abnormality of retinal neural layer .
abnormality of limb .
abnormality of viscus .
abnormality of adenohypophyseal placode .
abnormality of cranial placode .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
abnormality of proximal stomach .
abnormality of cilium .
abnormality of involuting marginal zone .
abnormality of marginal zone .
abnormality of blastomere d1 .1 .
abnormality of dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
abnormality of ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
abnormality of vegetal blastomere .
abnormality of radio - ulna .
abnormality of tibia - fibula .
abnormality of femur .
abnormality of zeugopod .
abnormality of forelimb .
abnormality of hematopoietic stem cell .
abnormality of preplacodal ectoderm .
abnormality of tail somite .
abnormality of presomitic mesoderm .
abnormality of glomus .
abnormality of archenteron .
abnormality of foregut endoderm .
abnormality of trunk somite 11 .
abnormality of pericardial roof .
abnormality of proximal mesenchyme .
abnormality of testis .
abnormality of secretory epithelial cell .
abnormality of ligament .
abnormality of dense regular connective tissue .
abnormality of anterior palatine artery .
abnormality of hindlimb digit 2 .
abnormality of choana .
abnormality of dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormality of notochord .
abnormality of process .
abnormality of auditory ossicle .
abnormality of sensorial layer .
abnormality of olfactory system .
abnormality of anterior crista .
abnormality of spermatid .
abnormality of odontoid tissue .
abnormality of anterior neural ridge .
abnormality of epidermis inner layer .
abnormality of pectoral appendage .
abnormality of ventral pallium .
abnormality of epsilon cell .
abnormality of nucleus of the solitary tract .
abnormality of proepicardium .
abnormality of spinal cord .
abnormality of internal carotid artery .
abnormality of trunk somite 2 .
abnormality of cement gland .
abnormality of spinal ganglion .
abnormality of spleen .
abnormality of head somite 2 .
abnormality of thymocyte .
abnormality of lymphocyte .
abnormality of circumpharyngeal ridge .
abnormality of head mesenchyme .
abnormality of fin margin .
abnormality of ventral tail fin .
abnormality of lung bud .
abnormality of optic field .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
abnormality of foot .
abnormality of autopod .
abnormality of optic vesicle .
abnormality of ethmoid region .
abnormality of craniofacial skeleton .
abnormality of anterior foregut .
abnormality of m . transversus ventralis ii .
abnormality of branchial head muscle .
abnormality of skeletal system .
abnormality of limb bud .
abnormality of tail somite 16 .
abnormality of muscular system .
abnormality of mandibular crest .
abnormality of mandibular arch .
abnormality of trunk somite 8 .
abnormality of ventral habenular nucleus .
abnormality of cartilage tissue .
abnormality of anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
abnormality of trunk somite 7 .
abnormality of pericyte .
abnormality of processus lateralis hyalis .
abnormality of lens placode .
abnormality of midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
abnormality of anatomical line .
abnormality of mullerian duct .
abnormality of cloaca .
abnormality of cement gland primordium .
abnormality of retina .
abnormality of oral evagination .
abnormality of distal tubule .
abnormality of external jugular vein .
abnormality of vitelline vein .
abnormality of pars distalis .
abnormality of gall bladder primordium .
abnormality of liver and biliary system .
abnormality of liver diverticulum .
abnormality of hyoid head muscle .
abnormality of otic placode .
abnormality of endoskeleton .
abnormality of glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
abnormality of pronephric nephrostome .
abnormality of urogenital system .
abnormality of posterior semicircular canal .
abnormality of blastomere d2 .
abnormality of renal artery .
abnormality of skin .
abnormality of vagal neural crest .
abnormality of germ plasm .
abnormality of forelimb stylopod .
abnormality of stylopod .
abnormality of cranial skeleton .
abnormality of cranial neural crest .
abnormality of beta cell .
abnormality of somatic stem cell .
abnormality of cerebellum .
abnormality of mineralized bone tissue .
abnormality of bone tissue .
abnormality of mineralized tissue .
abnormality of blastomere d1 .2 .
abnormality of animal blastomere .
abnormality of subinterstitial vein .
abnormality of midgut .
abnormality of intestine .
abnormality of dorsomedial edge of myotome .
abnormality of cellular bone tissue .
abnormality of processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
abnormality of epicardial precursor cell .
abnormality of ciliary marginal zone .
abnormality of proliferative region .
abnormality of mandibular mesenchyme .
abnormality of melanoblast .
abnormality of medial abdominal vein .
abnormality of cerebral vein .
abnormality of inner ear .
abnormality of medium cavity .
abnormality of archenteron floor .
abnormality of somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormality of left lymph heart .
abnormality of nucleus reticularis superior .
abnormality of pallium .
abnormality of m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
abnormality of neuromast support cell .
abnormality of male organism .
abnormality of whole organism .
abnormality of blastomere v2 .
abnormality of hindlimb digit 3 .
abnormality of mitotic cell .
abnormality of oocyte cortex .
abnormality of m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
abnormality of laryngeal muscle primordium .
abnormality of hatching gland .
abnormality of central endoderm .
abnormality of head somite 3 .
abnormality of prime meridian .
abnormality of myocardium .
abnormality of telencephalon .
abnormality of mm .levator arcuum branchialium iv primordium .
abnormality of myotome of head somite 2 .
abnormality of eye primordium .
abnormality of animal cap .
abnormality of central retina .
abnormality of pronephric kidney .
abnormality of kidney .
abnormality of mesonephric collecting duct .
abnormality of septum .
abnormality of motor axon .
abnormality of axon .
abnormality of branchial arch 1 .
abnormality of branchial arch .
abnormality of extraembryonic structure .
abnormality of gastrula cell .
abnormality of diencephalon .
abnormality of mineralized cartilage tissue .
abnormality of planum trabeculare anticum .
abnormality of stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
abnormality of biliary tree .
abnormality of globe .
abnormality of immune system .
abnormality of forelimb digit .
abnormality of mandibular arch skeleton .
abnormality of vertebral column .
abnormality of elastica externa .
abnormality of thyroid primordium .
abnormality of vestibuloauditory system .
abnormality of unicellular gland .
abnormality of hyoid crest .
abnormality of hypothalamus .
abnormality of pharyngeal arch .
abnormality of auditory apparatus .
abnormality of cerebral artery .
abnormality of jacobson's organ .
abnormality of cardiac myocyte .
abnormality of myocyte .
abnormality of regenerating skeletal element .
abnormality of alpha cell .
abnormality of adult immune system .
abnormality of eye photoreceptor cell .
abnormality of vascular endothelium .
abnormality of right ventricle .
abnormality of lateral ventricle .
abnormality of m . geniohyoideus primordium .
abnormality of prechordal plate .
abnormality of basal forebrain .
abnormality of retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormality of pancreas .
abnormality of involuted ventral mesoderm .
abnormality of appendage .
abnormality of hypophysis .
abnormality of unilaminar epithelium .
abnormality of periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
abnormality of m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
abnormality of mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
abnormality of ventral blood island .
abnormality of forebrain .
abnormality of locus coeruleus .
abnormality of interrenal vein .
abnormality of pericardium .
abnormality of peritoneum .
abnormality of tail somite 18 .
abnormality of olfactory sensory neuron .
abnormality of neuroectoderm .
abnormality of dorsolateral placode region .
abnormality of primordial germ cell .
abnormality of pharyngeal region .
abnormality of primary oogonium .
abnormality of branchial arch 2 .
abnormality of neurocoel .
abnormality of anterodorsal lateral line placode .
abnormality of trunk somite 3 .
abnormality of horizontal cell .
abnormality of sympathetic chain .
abnormality of neuropil of the optic tectum .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
abnormality of polar body .
abnormality of notochordal sheath .
abnormality of metencephalic vein .
abnormality of gustatory system .
abnormality of thoracic region .
abnormality of smooth muscle myocyte .
abnormality of hypaxial muscle .
abnormality of pre - dentine .
abnormality of mouth .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 6 .
abnormality of growth cone .
abnormality of prosomere .
abnormality of rhombomere r4 .
abnormality of medial cardinal vein .
abnormality of myoblast .
abnormality of blastomere v2 .1 .
abnormality of posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
abnormality of ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
abnormality of m . rectus cervicis primordium .
abnormality of visceral pouch 3 .
abnormality of anterior cardinal vein .
abnormality of gill primordium .
abnormality of lung primordium .
abnormality of enteric neuron .
abnormality of periocular region .
abnormality of egg jelly .
abnormality of primary spermatogonium .
abnormality of vegetal yolk mass .
abnormality of posterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormality of forelimb zeugopod .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 1 .
abnormality of m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
abnormality of anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
abnormality of secondary oogonium .
abnormality of dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
abnormality of blastomere d2 .2 .
abnormality of neural fold .
abnormality of m . levator scapulae inferior .
abnormality of left channel of ventral aorta .
abnormality of epidermis outer layer .
abnormality of myotome of tail somite 16 .
abnormality of iliofibularis .
abnormality of trunk somite 1 .
abnormality of dorsal tail fin .
abnormality of m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
abnormality of olfactory organ .
abnormality of periotic region .
abnormality of adipose tissue .
abnormality of involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
abnormality of dorsal fin .
abnormality of keratin accumulating cell .
abnormality of vertebral centrum .
abnormality of lateral line primordium .
abnormality of zona limitans intrathalamica .
abnormality of sesamoid .
abnormality of caudal artery .
abnormality of optic stalk .
abnormality of parachordal .
abnormality of sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
abnormality of microglial cell .
abnormality of glial cell .
abnormality of merkel cell .
abnormality of processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 3 .
abnormality of central vegetal yolk mass .
abnormality of laryngeal muscle .
abnormality of pre - chordal neural plate .
abnormality of hyaloid vein .
abnormality of ischium .
abnormality of ciliated epidermal cell .
abnormality of monociliated cell .
abnormality of epidermal cell .
abnormality of ciliated cell .
abnormality of aortic arch 3 .
abnormality of metacarpus .
abnormality of ventral pancreatic bud .
abnormality of sphenoid region .
abnormality of ilium .
abnormality of centromere .
abnormality of barbel .
abnormality of lateral postcardinal vein .
abnormality of kinetochore .
abnormality of subpallium .
abnormality of tail .
abnormality of odontogenic papilla .
abnormality of cell condensation .
abnormality of thalamus .
abnormality of m . subarcualis rectus i .
abnormality of arterial endothelium .
abnormality of tendon fibroblast .
abnormality of fibroblast .
abnormality of lateral line system .
abnormality of hindgut .
abnormality of cardiac ventricle .
abnormality of epiphysis .
abnormality of trunk somite 5 .
abnormality of hypoglossal nerve .
abnormality of profundal placode .
abnormality of blastopore .
abnormality of musculoskeletal system .
abnormality of mm .levator arcuum branchialium i primordium .
abnormality of chordal neural plate border .
abnormality of anterior lymph sac .
abnormality of smooth muscle .
abnormality of basilar papilla .
abnormality of rhombic lip .
abnormality of mucociliary epithelium .
abnormality of regenerating fin .
abnormality of coracoid bone .
abnormality of chordal neural plate .
abnormality of stria terminalis .
abnormality of electrically active cell .
abnormality of wound epidermis outer layer .
abnormality of adrenal medulla .
abnormality of bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
abnormality of tail bud .
abnormality of stirnorgan .
abnormality of ureter .
abnormality of intersomitic region .
abnormality of pretectum .
abnormality of paraxial mesoderm .
abnormality of male genitalia .
abnormality of meckel's cartilage .
abnormality of late distal tubule .
abnormality of pectoral girdle .
abnormality of neurocranium .
abnormality of m . rectus superior primordium .
abnormality of distal stomach .
abnormality of animal cap inner layer .
abnormality of profundus ganglion .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae articularis .
abnormality of rectal diverticulum .
abnormality of fin crest .
abnormality of posterior cerebral vein .
abnormality of mesonephric kidney .
abnormality of optic choroid vascular plexus .
abnormality of vascular plexus .
abnormality of presumptive ectoderm .
abnormality of suprarostral plate .
abnormality of supraoptoparaventricular region .
abnormality of left blastomere .
abnormality of mesencephalic artery .
abnormality of presumptive axial mesoderm .
abnormality of posterior neural tube .
abnormality of branchial arch 4 .
abnormality of occipitovertebral artery .
abnormality of splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
abnormality of multiciliated cell precursor .
abnormality of capillary .
abnormality of omphalomesenteric vein .
abnormality of liver .
abnormality of posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
abnormality of pseudoblastema .
abnormality of esophagus .
abnormality of mm .levator arcuum branchialium i .
abnormality of genital ridge .
abnormality of ventral marginal zone .
abnormality of vena capitis lateralis .
abnormality of exocrine cell .
abnormality of sclerotomal mesenchyme .
abnormality of larynx .
abnormality of lower blastopore lip .
abnormality of osteoid .
abnormality of matrix - based tissue .
abnormality of cardiac jelly .
abnormality of retinal inner plexiform layer .
abnormality of medial pallium .
abnormality of vena capitis medialis .
abnormality of sulcus limitans of neural tube .
abnormality of branchial arch 3 .
abnormality of natural killer cell .
abnormality of presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
abnormality of blastocoel anlage .
abnormality of intersomitic neuron .
abnormality of retinal stem cell .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
abnormality of hindgut primordium .
abnormality of hindlimb zeugopod .
abnormality of blood .
abnormality of rhombomere r2 .
abnormality of claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
abnormality of m . rectus inferior primordium .
abnormality of atypical epithelium .
abnormality of atrioventricular valve leaflet .
abnormality of postcranial axial skeleton .
abnormality of midgut primordium .
abnormality of bladder .
abnormality of sciatic nerve .
abnormality of archenteron roof midline .
abnormality of ventral lateral line .
abnormality of pronephric tubule .
abnormality of dorsal fin vasculature .
abnormality of atrioventricular canal .
abnormality of m . rectus posterior primordium .
abnormality of skeletal myocyte .
abnormality of thyroid .
abnormality of large intestine .
abnormality of left - dorsal blastomere .
abnormality of fasciculated network of fibrils .
abnormality of lens transitional zone .
abnormality of basihyal .
abnormality of hindlimb .
abnormality of stomach .
abnormality of glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
abnormality of abducens nerve .
abnormality of auditory tube .
abnormality of infraorbital lateral line primordium .
abnormality of interdigital region .
abnormality of osseous labyrinth .
abnormality of spiracle .
abnormality of posterior placodal area .
abnormality of simple organ .
abnormality of periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
abnormality of presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
abnormality of blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
abnormality of parathyroid .
abnormality of blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
abnormality of blastomere v1 .
abnormality of spinal neuron .
abnormality of dorsolateral ascending neuron .
abnormality of trunk musculature .
abnormality of liver primordium .
abnormality of apical mesenchyme .
abnormality of transporting epithelium .
abnormality of m . transversus anterior primordium .
abnormality of pulmonary epithelium .
abnormality of posterior palatine artery .
abnormality of neuroendocrine cell .
abnormality of retinal stem cell region .
abnormality of occipital lateral line .
abnormality of oropharynx .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
abnormality of lateral septum .
abnormality of right atrium .
abnormality of m . depressor mandibulae .
abnormality of head mesoderm .
abnormality of sclera .
abnormality of perichondrial cell .
abnormality of acellular bone tissue .
abnormality of dorsal fin margin .
abnormality of m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
abnormality of myotome of tail somite 18 .
abnormality of right - dorsal blastomere .
abnormality of microtubule .
abnormality of epaxial muscle .
abnormality of pharyngeal cavity .
abnormality of dorsal lateral line .
abnormality of hyoid arch .
abnormality of nucleus .
abnormality of presacral vertebra .
abnormality of bronchus .
abnormality of forelimb digit 4 .
abnormality of hindlimb stylopod .
abnormality of secondary spermatogonium .
abnormality of angioblast .
abnormality of blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
abnormality of spermatocyte .
abnormality of dorsal pancreatic bud .
abnormality of sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
abnormality of left - right organizer primordium .
abnormality of lateral nasal prominence .
abnormality of cytoplasm .
abnormality of dorsal tegmentum .
abnormality of choroid fissure .
abnormality of vacuolated notochordal tissue .
abnormality of pre - enamel .
abnormality of trabecula .
abnormality of brachet's cleft .
abnormality of pars intermedia .
abnormality of dermal system .
abnormality of principal cavity .
abnormality of stage iii oocyte .
abnormality of lens .
abnormality of branchial arch skeleton 1 .
abnormality of branchial arch skeleton .
abnormality of dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
abnormality of lymph vessel .
abnormality of granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
abnormality of spermatozoon .
abnormality of visceral pouch 5 .
abnormality of mm .constrictores branchiales ii primordium .
abnormality of sacral vertebra .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae externus .
abnormality of dermis .
abnormality of anterior tectum .
abnormality of hyoid arch skeleton .
abnormality of olfactory region .
abnormality of branchial vein .
abnormality of claw primordium .
abnormality of skeleton .
abnormality of osteoblast .
abnormality of duct of cuvier .
abnormality of ceratobranchial ii .
abnormality of hatching gland primordium .
abnormality of secondary heart field .
abnormality of regenerating forelimb .
abnormality of caudal vein .
abnormality of ethmoid bone .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
abnormality of melanotrope .
abnormality of middle lateral line placode .
abnormality of m . petrohyoideus .
abnormality of outer limiting membrane .
abnormality of pronephric nephron .
abnormality of adenohypophysis .
abnormality of dorsal septum .
abnormality of mesonephric duct .
abnormality of neural progenitor cell .
abnormality of internal jugular vein .
abnormality of centrosome .
abnormality of tail somite 14 .
abnormality of monociliated epidermal cell .
abnormality of postmigratory neural crest cell .
abnormality of dorsal thalamus .
abnormality of trunk somite 4 .
abnormality of follicle layer .
abnormality of blastomere v2 .2 .
abnormality of forelimb digit 3 .
abnormality of blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
abnormality of cervical vertebra .
abnormality of disaggregated / reaggregated ectoderm treated with activin .
abnormality of carpus .
abnormality of prethalamus basal plate .
abnormality of ventral pallidum .
abnormality of dermal skeleton .
abnormality of cardiac mesoderm .
abnormality of multiciliated epidermal cell .
abnormality of multiciliated cell .
abnormality of m . obliquus inferior .
abnormality of mm .levator arcuum branchialium ii primordium .
abnormality of neuroectoderm inner layer .
abnormality of dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
abnormality of dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
abnormality of stapes .
abnormality of skin gland .
abnormality of adult intestinal epithelium .
abnormality of simple columnar epithelium .
abnormality of gut epithelium .
abnormality of larval aorta .
abnormality of habenula .
abnormality of right blastomere .
abnormality of myotome of head somite 4 .
abnormality of iliac process primordium .
abnormality of visceral pouch 6 .
abnormality of ligament cell .
abnormality of granular gland .
abnormality of otic vesicle .
abnormality of palatoquadrati .
abnormality of rostral tuberal region .
abnormality of serous membrane .
abnormality of planum hypobranchiale .
abnormality of ventricular zone .
abnormality of ventral mesoderm .
abnormality of acid secreting cell .
abnormality of middle ear .
abnormality of rhombomere r6 .
abnormality of trunk somite 6 .
abnormality of stomach body .
abnormality of blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
abnormality of dorsal marginal zone .
abnormality of facial epibranchial placode .
abnormality of sub - blastoporal endoderm .
abnormality of ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
abnormality of goblet cell .
abnormality of proximal tubule .
abnormality of egg .
abnormality of outflow tract .
abnormality of m . rectus inferior .
abnormality of endocardial tube .
abnormality of subocular cartilage .
abnormality of dorsal foregut .
abnormality of blastomere v1 .2 .
abnormality of ultimobranchial body .
abnormality of posterior branchial crest .
abnormality of conjunctiva .
abnormality of m . constrictor laryngis .
abnormality of anterior branchial crest .
abnormality of sacculus .
abnormality of right spleen primordium .
abnormality of spinal nerve .
abnormality of retinal progenitor cell .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 8 .
abnormality of suspensorium .
abnormality of caudal fin skeleton .
abnormality of ventrolateral neural tube .
abnormality of pharynx .
abnormality of hatching gland cell .
abnormality of hyomandibular lateral line .
abnormality of glomeral nexus .
abnormality of axial mesoderm .
abnormality of anterior cerebral vein .
abnormality of filter chamber .
abnormality of rhombomere r7 .
abnormality of apical ectodermal ridge .
abnormality of ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
abnormality of mm .constrictores branchiales iv .
abnormality of visceral pouch 1 .
abnormality of cardia .
abnormality of caudal presomitic mesoderm .
abnormality of intersomitic vein .
abnormality of ophthalmic artery .
abnormality of anterior hypothalamus .
abnormality of astrocyte .
abnormality of m . intermandibularis primordium .
abnormality of anterior ventral blood island .
abnormality of vegetal pole .
abnormality of dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
abnormality of non - involuting marginal zone .
abnormality of m . rectus superior .
abnormality of plasma membrane .
abnormality of animal part ,  late involuting .
abnormality of metencephalic artery .
abnormality of accessory olfactory bulb .
abnormality of visceral pouch 4 .
abnormality of sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
abnormality of myotome of tail somite 14 .
abnormality of pineal gland .
abnormality of rhombomere r5 .
abnormality of rib .
abnormality of endoplasmic reticulum .
abnormality of mitochondrial cloud .
abnormality of bowman's gland .
abnormality of germinal vesicle .
abnormality of mammilary region .
abnormality of footplate of the stapes .
abnormality of ventral abdominal vein .
abnormality of mucous gland .
abnormality of blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
abnormality of posterior cardinal vein .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 11 .
abnormality of mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
abnormality of t cell .
abnormality of mesentery .
abnormality of forelimb bud tip .
abnormality of mm .levator arcuum branchialium ii .
abnormality of dermatocranium .
abnormality of pylorus .
abnormality of adrenal gland .
abnormality of lower eyelid .
abnormality of dorso - lateral marginal zone .
abnormality of lateral crista .
abnormality of blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
abnormality of skin seromucous gland .
abnormality of tendon .
abnormality of mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
abnormality of mineralized extracellular matrix .
abnormality of ventro - lateral marginal zone .
abnormality of inner fin .
abnormality of posterior foregut .
abnormality of craniofacial region .
abnormality of pharyngeal mesenchyme .
abnormality of anteroventral lateral line placode .
abnormality of pre - chordal neural plate border .
abnormality of caudal tuberal region .
abnormality of erythroid cell .
abnormality of hypobranchial head muscle .
abnormality of egg cell - free extract .
abnormality of cell - free extract .
abnormality of mesonephric late distal tubule .
abnormality of antrum .
abnormality of stage iv oocyte .
abnormality of forelimb digit 2 .
abnormality of trunk lateral line .
abnormality of lateral vein .
abnormality of tuberal region .
abnormality of trochlear nerve .
abnormality of trabecula carnea .
abnormality of cardiac progenitor cell .
abnormality of rathke's pouch .
abnormality of middle cerebral vein .
abnormality of third ventricle .
abnormality of muller cell .
abnormality of radial glial cell .
abnormality of primary heart field .
abnormality of cornua trabecula .
abnormality of dorsal pallidum .
abnormality of cartilaginous condensation .
abnormality of visceral pouch 2 .
abnormality of hepatocyte .
abnormality of apoptotic cell .
abnormality of motor neuron .
abnormality of nucleus reticularis inferior .
abnormality of ooplasm .
abnormality of cardiac valve .
abnormality of m . rectus cervicus .
abnormality of mitral cell .
abnormality of ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
abnormality of keller explant .
abnormality of prepollex .
abnormality of cell body layer of the optic tectum .
abnormality of fenestra subocularis .
abnormality of maxillary artery .
abnormality of odontode tissue .
abnormality of mm .constrictores branchiales iii primordium .
abnormality of suprablastoporal endoderm .
abnormality of amputated limb .
abnormality of infrarostral .
abnormality of atrioventricular canal endocardium .
abnormality of retinal progenitor cell region .
abnormality of musculature of face .
abnormality of external carotid artery .
abnormality of forelimb digit 5 .
abnormality of typhlosole .
abnormality of female organism .
abnormality of blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
abnormality of gastric vein .
abnormality of ventral funiculus .
abnormality of anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
abnormality of stromal cell .
abnormality of branchial basket .
abnormality of m . cucullaris .
abnormality of claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
abnormality of premigratory neural crest cell .
abnormality of dermatome .
abnormality of circulating cell .
abnormality of hepato - pancreatic duct .
abnormality of arteria subclavia .
abnormality of tail somite 17 .
abnormality of pharyngeal pouch .
abnormality of retinal layer .
abnormality of articular system .
abnormality of proximal tubule branch .
abnormality of non - ciliated epithelial cell .
abnormality of m . obliquus superior .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
abnormality of pars interna of the stapes .
abnormality of sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
abnormality of regenerating hindlimb .
abnormality of late proximal tubule .
abnormality of retinal ganglion cell .
abnormality of suprachiasmatic nucleus .
abnormality of vestibulocochlear nerve .
abnormality of optic chiasm .
abnormality of dorsolateral commissural neuron .
abnormality of posterior ventral blood island .
abnormality of forelimb bud .
abnormality of myotome of head somite 1 .
abnormality of palatoquadrate .
abnormality of blastomere d2 .1 .
abnormality of bile duct .
abnormality of anterior commissure .
abnormality of femur rudiment .
abnormality of occipital region .
abnormality of sclerotome of head somite 4 .
abnormality of digestive enzyme secreting cell .
abnormality of optic disc .
abnormality of joint region .
abnormality of isthmic nucleus .
abnormality of thymus .
abnormality of vestibule .
abnormality of peripheral nerve .
abnormality of glomerular epithelial cell .
abnormality of ischiadic vein .
abnormality of glossopharyngeal nerve .
abnormality of stratum spongiosum .
abnormality of pre - enameloid .
abnormality of aortic arch 2 .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
abnormality of glomeral mesenchyme .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 2 .
abnormality of ophthalmic vein .
abnormality of migrating macrophage .
abnormality of macrophage .
abnormality of tail vein .
abnormality of ceratobranchial iii .
abnormality of retinal rod cell .
abnormality of centriole .
abnormality of larval immune system .
abnormality of medial septum .
abnormality of mauthner cell .
abnormality of dorsal involuting marginal zone .
abnormality of m . obliquus inferior primordium .
abnormality of postsacral vertebra .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
abnormality of mesenchymal stem cell .
abnormality of cementum .
abnormality of iris .
abnormality of taste bud .
abnormality of female genitalia .
abnormality of scapula .
abnormality of gasserian ganglion .
abnormality of lagena .
abnormality of cutaneous femoral vein .
abnormality of mucus secreting cell .
abnormality of olfactory epithelial support cell .
abnormality of ciliated non - epidermal cell .
abnormality of nucleate erythrocyte .
abnormality of endocardial cushion .
abnormality of vertebral artery .
abnormality of hindlimb digit 4 .
abnormality of ventricular outflow tract .
abnormality of rohon - beard neuron .
abnormality of mesonephric early proximal tubule .
abnormality of digit - joint region .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 12 .
abnormality of retinal cone cell .
abnormality of auditory hair cell .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
abnormality of stratum compactum .
abnormality of mesencephalic vein .
abnormality of head endoderm .
abnormality of coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
abnormality of dentine .
abnormality of central canal .
abnormality of m . dilatator laryngis .
abnormality of oviduct .
abnormality of blastocoel floor .
abnormality of mitotic spindle .
abnormality of nucleus reticularis medialis .
abnormality of posterior commissure .
abnormality of branchial arch skeleton 4 .
abnormality of lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
abnormality of mesodermal cell .
abnormality of caudal lateral line .
abnormality of roof plate .
abnormality of lateral abdominal vein .
abnormality of pubis .
abnormality of notoplate .
abnormality of hypochord .
abnormality of mm .levator arcuum branchialium iv .
abnormality of glomerulus .
abnormality of pigment cell .
abnormality of hindlimb bud tip .
abnormality of enameloid .
abnormality of tympanic disk .
abnormality of metatarsus .
abnormality of left - ventral blastomere .
abnormality of ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
abnormality of rostral presomitic mesoderm .
abnormality of keratinocyte .
abnormality of neuroectoderm outer layer .
abnormality of external coil of the small intestine .
abnormality of orbital region .
abnormality of mm .levator arcuum branchialium iii .
abnormality of oculomotor motornucleus .
abnormality of solitary tract .
abnormality of posterior hypothalamus .
abnormality of branchial arch skeleton 2 .
abnormality of claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
abnormality of m . rectus abdominis .
abnormality of barrier cell .
abnormality of posterior lateral line placode .
abnormality of sacral neural crest .
abnormality of lung .
abnormality of utricle .
abnormality of subcortical cytoplasm .
abnormality of bulbous arteriosis .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 7 .
abnormality of ileum .
abnormality of retinal ganglion cell layer .
abnormality of processus articularis palatoquadrati .
abnormality of colon .
abnormality of pigment layer .
abnormality of bottle cell .
abnormality of trigeminal ganglion .
abnormality of eberth - kastschenko layer .
abnormality of retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormality of hyaloid vascular plexus .
abnormality of hindlimb digit 5 .
abnormality of amphibian papilla .
abnormality of dermal bone .
abnormality of lateral amygdala .
abnormality of processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
abnormality of duodenum .
abnormality of iridophore .
abnormality of facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
abnormality of m . transversus anterior .
abnormality of blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
abnormality of cementoblast .
abnormality of blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
abnormality of oral epithelium .
abnormality of pharyngeal epithelium .
abnormality of postcaval vein .
abnormality of retinal outer nuclear layer .
abnormality of left spleen primordium .
abnormality of barrier epithelial cell .
abnormality of olfactory pit .
abnormality of vagus nerve .
abnormality of medial ganglionic eminence .
abnormality of posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
abnormality of rhombomere r1 .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 10 .
abnormality of lateral forebrain bundle .
abnormality of involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
abnormality of trachea .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 5 .
abnormality of saccular macula .
abnormality of ascending interneuron .
abnormality of prosomere 6 .
abnormality of hindlimb region .
abnormality of perichordal tissue .
abnormality of trunk region .
abnormality of blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
abnormality of dorsal habenular nucleus .
abnormality of fourth ventricle .
abnormality of branchial arch skeleton 3 .
abnormality of eminentia thalami .
abnormality of left omphalomesenteric vein .
abnormality of exocrine pancreas .
abnormality of m . intermandibularis .
abnormality of endothelial cell .
abnormality of hyaloid artery .
abnormality of interstitial cell of leydig .
abnormality of musculoabdominal vein .
abnormality of vegetal cortex .
abnormality of infraorbital lateral line .
abnormality of optic fiber layer .
abnormality of larval intestinal epithelium .
abnormality of morula cell .
abnormality of vestibular apparatus .
abnormality of regenerating eye .
abnormality of nasociliary artery .
abnormality of floor plate .
abnormality of facial vein .
abnormality of seminiferous tubule .
abnormality of oxygen accumulating cell .
abnormality of migratory neural crest cell .
abnormality of spike .
abnormality of iliac process .
abnormality of manicotto glandulare .
abnormality of blastomere d1 .
abnormality of mm .constrictores branchiales ii .
abnormality of fibrocartilage .
abnormality of ventral foregut .
abnormality of chordoneural hinge .
abnormality of anterior semicircular canal .
abnormality of posterior tectum .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 9 .
abnormality of gall bladder .
abnormality of melanophore .
abnormality of wedge region .
abnormality of ciliary body .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
abnormality of sinus venosus .
abnormality of dorsolateral neural tube .
abnormality of parotic crest .
abnormality of m . geniohyoideus .
abnormality of apical epithelial cap .
abnormality of vegetal part ,  early involuting .
abnormality of non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
abnormality of regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
abnormality of spiral septum .
abnormality of neural groove .
abnormality of oropharyngeal papilla .
abnormality of basal lamina .
abnormality of m . interhyoideus .
abnormality of ring structure .
abnormality of cleavage furrow .
abnormality of enamel .
abnormality of nucleus of the diagonal band .
abnormality of perivitelline space .
abnormality of ceratobranchial iv .
abnormality of marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
abnormality of claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
abnormality of animal cap outer layer .
abnormality of myotome of head somite 3 .
abnormality of cornea .
abnormality of podocyte .
abnormality of m . levator scapulae superior .
abnormality of median fin .
abnormality of magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
abnormality of oculomotor nerve .
abnormality of myotome of tail somite 15 .
abnormality of posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
abnormality of coelomic epithelium .
abnormality of medial amygdala .
abnormality of dorsal funiculus .
abnormality of ampullary nerve .
abnormality of processus anterior hyalis .
abnormality of glomerular mesangial cell .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 13 .
abnormality of ischiadic artery .
abnormality of dorsal crest of the endoderm .
abnormality of paracrine cell .
abnormality of ventrolateral edge of myotome .
abnormality of left - right organizer .
abnormality of tarsus .
abnormality of interdigital webbing .
abnormality of rhombomere r8 .
abnormality of subthalamic nucleus .
abnormality of forebrain - midbrain boundary .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
abnormality of transverse process .
abnormality of m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
abnormality of myelin accumulating cell .
abnormality of pericardial muscle .
abnormality of myeloid cell .
abnormality of dorsal lymph space .
abnormality of blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
abnormality of ceratobranchial i .
abnormality of amacrine cell .
abnormality of m . orbitohyoideus .
abnormality of capillary system of liver .
abnormality of jaw muscle .
abnormality of vestibulocochlear ganglion .
abnormality of arteria iliaca communis .
abnormality of fibrocellular pad .
abnormality of sperm entry point .
abnormality of outer fin .
abnormality of right - ventral blastomere .
abnormality of oral cavity .
abnormality of sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
abnormality of secondary myofiber .
abnormality of alkali secreting cell .
abnormality of stage i oocyte .
abnormality of medial nasal prominence .
abnormality of anterior amygdala .
abnormality of rectum .
abnormality of zygote cortex .
abnormality of pars media of the stapes .
abnormality of aortic arch 5 .
abnormality of ventral septum .
abnormality of vegetal endoderm .
abnormality of ventral fin vasculature .
abnormality of lens fiber cell mass .
abnormality of urostyle .
abnormality of stage v oocyte .
abnormality of skeletal muscle satellite cell .
abnormality of sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
abnormality of nostril .
abnormality of bone marrow .
abnormality of descending interneuron .
abnormality of epigastric artery .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
abnormality of mesonephric late proximal tubule .
abnormality of ectodermal cell .
abnormality of atrial septum .
abnormality of fat body .
abnormality of blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
abnormality of torus semicircularis .
abnormality of subcommissural organ .
abnormality of ciliary axoneme .
abnormality of stage ii oocyte .
abnormality of anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
abnormality of endodermal cell .
abnormality of parabrachial area .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
abnormality of organ cortex .
abnormality of blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
abnormality of processus posterior hyalis .
abnormality of upper jaw .
abnormality of femoral vein .
abnormality of endolymphatic duct .
abnormality of optic nerve .
abnormality of myocoelic slit .
abnormality of lateral funiculus .
abnormality of basal body .
abnormality of dendrite .
abnormality of neuromast mantle cell .
abnormality of ventral fin margin .
abnormality of dorsal endoderm .
abnormality of b cell .
abnormality of hypobranchial placode .
abnormality of otic region .
abnormality of ventral tegmentum .
abnormality of m . rectus posterior .
abnormality of bipolar neuron .
abnormality of ventral blood island border .
abnormality of posterior vena cava .
abnormality of infundibulum .
abnormality of pars externa of the stapes .
abnormality of choroid .
abnormality of skin mucous gland .
abnormality of laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
abnormality of myotome of trunk somite 4 .
abnormality of endomesoderm .
abnormality of simple cuboidal epithelium .
abnormality of blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
abnormality of absorptive cell .
abnormality of liver parenchyme .
abnormality of internal coil of the small intestine .
abnormality of subintestinal vein .
abnormality of pyloric sphincter .
abnormality of m . rectus anterior .
abnormality of olfactory nerve .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
abnormality of external gill .
abnormality of fenestra basicranialis .
abnormality of commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
abnormality of dorsal pallium .
abnormality of lampbrush chromosome .
abnormality of pulmonary vein .
abnormality of dorsal column nucleus .
abnormality of pronephric sinus .
abnormality of m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
abnormality of inner limiting membrane .
abnormality of dental epithelium .
abnormality of peripheral retina .
abnormality of trochlear motornucleus .
abnormality of post - anal gut .
abnormality of jacobson's vein .
abnormality of abdominal myoblast .
abnormality of claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
abnormality of compound organ component .
abnormality of adrenal cortex .
abnormality of appendicular ossicle .
abnormality of epicardium .
abnormality of anterior thalamic nucleus .
abnormality of mesonephric early distal tubule .
abnormality of posterior lateral line .
abnormality of tongue .
abnormality of prosomere 5 .
abnormality of activin - induced ectoderm .
abnormality of forelimb region .
abnormality of non - cililated epidermal cell .
abnormality of ceratohyal .
abnormality of peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
abnormality of oligodendrocyte .
abnormality of vitelline membrane .
abnormality of blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
abnormality of notochordal epithelium .
abnormality of pupil .
abnormality of urethra .
abnormality of cutaneous magnus .
abnormality of mm .constrictores branchiales iii .
abnormality of early proximal tubule .
abnormality of truncus arteriosus .
abnormality of early distal tubule .
abnormality of dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
abnormality of joint .
abnormality of hemangioblast .
abnormality of central nucleus of the thalamus .
abnormality of blastocoel roof .
abnormality of intersomitic epithelium .
abnormality of xanthophore .
abnormality of ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
abnormality of sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
abnormality of retinal outer plexiform layer .
abnormality of prosomere 4 .
abnormality of accessory nerve .
abnormality of myotome of tail somite 17 .
abnormality of left ventricle .
abnormality of raphe nucleus .
abnormality of schwann cell .
abnormality of proctodeum .
abnormality of intersomitic tendon .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the organism subdivision ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical structure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epidermis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the multi - tissue structure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the multicellular anatomical structure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiac neural crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the heart ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior placodal area ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the distal mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the germ cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lower jaw ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical cluster ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the central nervous system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nervous system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fundus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v1 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral animal hemisphere blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ovary ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gonad ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory bulb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hepatic vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 12 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cartilage element ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skeletal element ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the chondrocranium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the chondrocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head somite 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head somite ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head vasculature ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blood vessel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 9 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating tail ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical space ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the animal hemisphere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the urinary system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mandibular artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neurogenic placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal aorta ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the aorta ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical entity in vitro ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere r3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical group ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric sinus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the venous endothelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the simple squamous epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head somite 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic tectum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cranial muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the embryonic structure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the involuted dorsal mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cell part ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trigeminal nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cranial nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fin vasculature ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the peripheral nervous system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the aortic arch 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the aortic arch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the genital system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endochondral bone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pelvic girdle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endochondral element ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the upper blastopore lip ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail tip ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior lateral line placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral line placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mouth primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cranium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the solid compound organ ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the surface structure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural tube ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardinal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk vasculature ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intermediate mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the paired dorsal aorta ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the primary germ layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the arteria mesenterica posterior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hypophyseal primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the alimentary system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hepatic portal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the foregut ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic tract ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuromere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindbrain ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the presumptive rhombomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the central amygdala ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral pallium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the somite ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the brain ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior neural tube ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural stem cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stem cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pallidum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the migrating neuroblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stage vi oocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb digit ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the digit ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 7 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gastrocoel roof plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tooth ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the eye ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the uveal tract ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating limb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the delta cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the enteroendocrine cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail somite 15 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lens epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the preoptic area ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retromammillary area ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the subclavian vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prehallux ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cranial muscle primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left atrium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cavitated compound organ ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the embryo ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endocrine cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the islets of langerhans ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the limb segment ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nucleus accumbens ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastema ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral aorta ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pulmonary artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trabecula cranii ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right channel of ventral aorta ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the second pancreatic bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the first pancreatic bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ionocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epithelial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the basal ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the semicircular canal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the membrane bone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bone element ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the facial nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral semicircular canal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endocrine system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vertebral element ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skeletal subdivision ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the photoreceptor layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the brain ventricle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the compound organ ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lymphatic system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pars nervosa ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior entopeduncular nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oval window ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the claw ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the acellular anatomical structure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb digit 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the wound epidermis inner layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right lymph heart ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the midbrain tegmentum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral line ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cranial ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 13 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the avascular gag - rich matrix ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - mineralized cartilage tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proteinaceous extracellular matrix ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the caudal vertebra ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vertebra ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the astrocyte end - foot ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pelvic appendage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the paired appendage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the diaphysis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the organ part ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endocardium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dermomyotome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the multilaminar epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the aortic arch 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prethalamus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior crista ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sensory epithelial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk neural crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the wound epidermis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the circulatory system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric nephron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the coelom ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the visual system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sensory system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skeletal muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastocoel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the follicle cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - neural ectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal fin skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the median fin skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pelvic girdle primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotomal cartilage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail vasculature ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the progenitor cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the heart primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the chondroblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 9 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 10 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pronephric duct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the duct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the extracellular matrix ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the humerus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vagal epibranchial placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epibranchial placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gamma cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medulla oblongata ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the early embryonic cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vegetal hemisphere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the elastic cartilage tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastopore lip ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neurohypophysis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gamete ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the respiratory system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the middle lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the eye muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . obliquus superior primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intersomitic artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intersomitic vessel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the axial skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the visceral pouch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the supraorbital lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal blood vessel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tympanic annulus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . interhyoideus primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the germinal granule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pronephric mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the commissural interneuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the interneuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the zygote ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral ganglionic eminence ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the circumblastoporal collar ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the midbrain ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hand ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral plate mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the portion of organism substance ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyaline cartilage tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior neural fold ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the axial ossicle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ossicle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the appendicular skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the granule cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural plate border ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the amygdala ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the striatum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus anterior primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the leydig cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trigeminal placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the aortic arch 6 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the small intestine ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the acinar cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiovascular system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the braincase and otic capsule skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - mineralized chondroid tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skeletal tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyaloid blood vessel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hematological system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the splanchnocranium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharyngeal endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior entopeduncular region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the animal pole ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the connective tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the perichondrium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the periosteum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mandibular head muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the interdigital mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the amputated fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the amputated tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal neural layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the limb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the viscus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adenohypophyseal placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cranial placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proximal stomach ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cilium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the involuting marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d1 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vegetal blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the radio - ulna ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tibia - fibula ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the femur ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the zeugopod ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hematopoietic stem cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the preplacodal ectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail somite ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the presomitic mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glomus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the archenteron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the foregut endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 11 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pericardial roof ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proximal mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the testis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the secretory epithelial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ligament ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dense regular connective tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior palatine artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb digit 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the choana ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal lateral plate mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the notochord ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the process ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the auditory ossicle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sensorial layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior crista ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spermatid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the odontoid tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior neural ridge ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epidermis inner layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pectoral appendage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral pallium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epsilon cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nucleus of the solitary tract ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proepicardium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spinal cord ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the internal carotid artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cement gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spinal ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spleen ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head somite 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the thymocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lymphocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the circumpharyngeal ridge ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fin margin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral tail fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lung bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic field ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae externus primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the foot ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the autopod ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic vesicle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ethmoid region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the craniofacial skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior foregut ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . transversus ventralis ii ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial head muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skeletal system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the limb bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail somite 16 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the muscular system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mandibular crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mandibular arch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 8 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral habenular nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cartilage tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anteroventral tegmental nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 7 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pericyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the processus lateralis hyalis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lens placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mullerian duct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cloaca ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cement gland primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retina ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oral evagination ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the distal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the external jugular vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vitelline vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pars distalis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gall bladder primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the liver and biliary system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the liver diverticulum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyoid head muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the otic placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endoskeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pronephric nephrostome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the urogenital system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior semicircular canal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the renal artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vagal neural crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the germ plasm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb stylopod ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stylopod ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cranial skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cranial neural crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the beta cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the somatic stem cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cerebellum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mineralized bone tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bone tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mineralized tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d1 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the animal blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the subinterstitial vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the midgut ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intestine ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsomedial edge of myotome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cellular bone tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the processus muscularis palatoquadrati ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epicardial precursor cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ciliary marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proliferative region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mandibular mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the melanoblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medial abdominal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cerebral vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the inner ear ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medium cavity ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the archenteron floor ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left lymph heart ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nucleus reticularis superior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pallium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . dilatator laryngis primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuromast support cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the male organism ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the whole organism ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb digit 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mitotic cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oocyte cortex ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . orbitohyoideus primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the laryngeal muscle primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hatching gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the central endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head somite 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prime meridian ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myocardium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the telencephalon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of head somite 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the eye primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the animal cap ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the central retina ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pronephric kidney ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the kidney ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric collecting duct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the motor axon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the axon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the extraembryonic structure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gastrula cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the diencephalon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mineralized cartilage tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the planum trabeculare anticum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the biliary tree ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the globe ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the immune system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb digit ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mandibular arch skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vertebral column ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the elastica externa ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the thyroid primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vestibuloauditory system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the unicellular gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyoid crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hypothalamus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharyngeal arch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the auditory apparatus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cerebral artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the jacobson's organ ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiac myocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating skeletal element ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the alpha cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adult immune system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the eye photoreceptor cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vascular endothelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right ventricle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral ventricle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . geniohyoideus primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prechordal plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the basal forebrain ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal pigmented epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pancreas ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the involuted ventral mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the appendage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hypophysis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the unilaminar epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . constrictor laryngis primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral blood island ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forebrain ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the locus coeruleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the interrenal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pericardium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the peritoneum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail somite 18 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory sensory neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuroectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsolateral placode region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the primordial germ cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharyngeal region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the primary oogonium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neurocoel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterodorsal lateral line placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the horizontal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sympathetic chain ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuropil of the optic tectum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the polar body ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the notochordal sheath ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the metencephalic vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gustatory system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the thoracic region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the smooth muscle myocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hypaxial muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pre - dentine ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mouth ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 6 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the growth cone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prosomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere r4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medial cardinal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myoblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v2 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posteroventral tegmental nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral hypothalamic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus cervicis primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the visceral pouch 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior cardinal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gill primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lung primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the enteric neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the periocular region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the egg jelly ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the primary spermatogonium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vegetal yolk mass ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior lateral line ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb zeugopod ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . transversus ventralis ii primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior dorsal lateral plate region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the secondary oogonium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d2 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural fold ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator scapulae inferior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left channel of ventral aorta ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epidermis outer layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of tail somite 16 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the iliofibularis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal tail fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory organ ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the periotic region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adipose tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the involuting marginal zone epithelial layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the keratin accumulating cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vertebral centrum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral line primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the zona limitans intrathalamica ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sesamoid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the caudal artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic stalk ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the parachordal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of tail somite 14 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the microglial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the merkel cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the central vegetal yolk mass ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the laryngeal muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pre - chordal neural plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyaloid vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ischium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ciliated epidermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the monociliated cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epidermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ciliated cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the aortic arch 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the metacarpus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral pancreatic bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sphenoid region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ilium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the centromere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the barbel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral postcardinal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the kinetochore ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the subpallium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the odontogenic papilla ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cell condensation ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the thalamus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . subarcualis rectus i ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the arterial endothelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tendon fibroblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fibroblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral line system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindgut ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiac ventricle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epiphysis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hypoglossal nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the profundal placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastopore ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the musculoskeletal system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the chordal neural plate border ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior lymph sac ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the smooth muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the basilar papilla ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombic lip ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mucociliary epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the coracoid bone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the chordal neural plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stria terminalis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the electrically active cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the wound epidermis outer layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adrenal medulla ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stirnorgan ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ureter ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intersomitic region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pretectum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the paraxial mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the male genitalia ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the meckel's cartilage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the late distal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pectoral girdle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neurocranium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus superior primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the distal stomach ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the animal cap inner layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the profundus ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae articularis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rectal diverticulum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fin crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior cerebral vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric kidney ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic choroid vascular plexus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vascular plexus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the presumptive ectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the suprarostral plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the supraoptoparaventricular region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesencephalic artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the presumptive axial mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior neural tube ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the occipitovertebral artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the multiciliated cell precursor ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the capillary ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the omphalomesenteric vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the liver ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior wall of neurenteric canal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pseudoblastema ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the esophagus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the genital ridge ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vena capitis lateralis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the exocrine cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotomal mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the larynx ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lower blastopore lip ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the osteoid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the matrix - based tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiac jelly ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal inner plexiform layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medial pallium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vena capitis medialis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sulcus limitans of neural tube ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the natural killer cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the presumptive paraxial mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastocoel anlage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intersomitic neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal stem cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 6 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindgut primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb zeugopod ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blood ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere r2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the claw of hindlimb digit 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus inferior primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the atypical epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the atrioventricular valve leaflet ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the postcranial axial skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the midgut primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bladder ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sciatic nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the archenteron roof midline ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pronephric tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal fin vasculature ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the atrioventricular canal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus posterior primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skeletal myocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the thyroid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the large intestine ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left - dorsal blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fasciculated network of fibrils ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lens transitional zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the basihyal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stomach ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the abducens nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the auditory tube ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the infraorbital lateral line primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the interdigital region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the osseous labyrinth ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spiracle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior placodal area ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the simple organ ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v1 .1 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the parathyroid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d2 .2 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spinal neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsolateral ascending neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk musculature ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the liver primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the apical mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the transporting epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . transversus anterior primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pulmonary epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior palatine artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuroendocrine cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal stem cell region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the occipital lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oropharynx ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right atrium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . depressor mandibulae ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclera ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the perichondrial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the acellular bone tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal fin margin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . subarcualis rectus i primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of tail somite 18 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right - dorsal blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the microtubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epaxial muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharyngeal cavity ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyoid arch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the presacral vertebra ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bronchus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb digit 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb stylopod ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the secondary spermatogonium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the angioblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d1 .2 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spermatocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal pancreatic bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sensorial layer of neurectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left - right organizer primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral nasal prominence ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cytoplasm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal tegmentum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the choroid fissure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vacuolated notochordal tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pre - enamel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trabecula ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the brachet's cleft ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pars intermedia ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dermal system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the principal cavity ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stage iii oocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lens ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch skeleton 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lymph vessel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the granule cell layer of the cerebellum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spermatozoon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the visceral pouch 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sacral vertebra ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae externus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dermis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior tectum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyoid arch skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the claw primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the osteoblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the duct of cuvier ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ceratobranchial ii ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hatching gland primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the secondary heart field ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating forelimb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the caudal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ethmoid bone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 13 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the melanotrope ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the middle lateral line placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . petrohyoideus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the outer limiting membrane ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pronephric nephron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adenohypophysis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric duct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural progenitor cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the internal jugular vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the centrosome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail somite 14 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the monociliated epidermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the postmigratory neural crest cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal thalamus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the follicle layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v2 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb digit 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v2 .1 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cervical vertebra ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the disaggregated / reaggregated ectoderm treated with activin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the carpus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prethalamus basal plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral pallidum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dermal skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiac mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the multiciliated epidermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the multiciliated cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . obliquus inferior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuroectoderm inner layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stapes ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skin gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adult intestinal epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the simple columnar epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gut epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the larval aorta ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the habenula ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of head somite 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the iliac process primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the visceral pouch 6 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ligament cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the granular gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the otic vesicle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the palatoquadrati ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rostral tuberal region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the serous membrane ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the planum hypobranchiale ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventricular zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the acid secreting cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the middle ear ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere r6 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk somite 6 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stomach body ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d1 .1 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the facial epibranchial placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sub - blastoporal endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral caudal lymphatic vessel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the goblet cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proximal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the egg ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the outflow tract ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus inferior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endocardial tube ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the subocular cartilage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal foregut ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v1 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ultimobranchial body ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior branchial crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the conjunctiva ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . constrictor laryngis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior branchial crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sacculus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right spleen primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spinal nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal progenitor cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 8 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the suspensorium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the caudal fin skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventrolateral neural tube ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharynx ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hatching gland cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyomandibular lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glomeral nexus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the axial mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior cerebral vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the filter chamber ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere r7 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the apical ectodermal ridge ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventricular layer of the optic tectum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the visceral pouch 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardia ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the caudal presomitic mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intersomitic vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ophthalmic artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior hypothalamus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the astrocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . intermandibularis primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior ventral blood island ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vegetal pole ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal hyoid arch skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - involuting marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus superior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the plasma membrane ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the animal part ,  late involuting ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the metencephalic artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the accessory olfactory bulb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the visceral pouch 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of tail somite 15 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of tail somite 14 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pineal gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere r5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rib ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endoplasmic reticulum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mitochondrial cloud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bowman's gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the germinal vesicle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mammilary region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the footplate of the stapes ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral abdominal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mucous gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d1 .1 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior cardinal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 11 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the t cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesentery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb bud tip ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dermatocranium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pylorus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adrenal gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lower eyelid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorso - lateral marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral crista ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v2 .2 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skin seromucous gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tendon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mineralized extracellular matrix ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventro - lateral marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the inner fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior foregut ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the craniofacial region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharyngeal mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anteroventral lateral line placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pre - chordal neural plate border ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the caudal tuberal region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the erythroid cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hypobranchial head muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the egg cell - free extract ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cell - free extract ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric late distal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the antrum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stage iv oocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb digit 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trunk lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tuberal region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trochlear nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trabecula carnea ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiac progenitor cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rathke's pouch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the middle cerebral vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the third ventricle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the muller cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the radial glial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the primary heart field ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cornua trabecula ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal pallidum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cartilaginous condensation ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the visceral pouch 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hepatocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the apoptotic cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the motor neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nucleus reticularis inferior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ooplasm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiac valve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus cervicus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mitral cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the keller explant ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prepollex ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cell body layer of the optic tectum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fenestra subocularis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the maxillary artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the odontode tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the suprablastoporal endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the amputated limb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the infrarostral ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the atrioventricular canal endocardium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal progenitor cell region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the musculature of face ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the external carotid artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb digit 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the typhlosole ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the female organism ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v2 .2 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gastric vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral funiculus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterodorsal tegmental nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stromal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial basket ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . cucullaris ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the claw of hindlimb digit 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the premigratory neural crest cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dermatome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the circulating cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hepato - pancreatic duct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the arteria subclavia ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail somite 17 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharyngeal pouch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the articular system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proximal tubule branch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - ciliated epithelial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . obliquus superior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae longus profundus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pars interna of the stapes ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of tail somite 17 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating hindlimb ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the late proximal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal ganglion cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the suprachiasmatic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vestibulocochlear nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic chiasm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsolateral commissural neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior ventral blood island ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of head somite 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the palatoquadrate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d2 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bile duct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior commissure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the femur rudiment ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the occipital region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of head somite 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the digestive enzyme secreting cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic disc ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the joint region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the isthmic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the thymus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vestibule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the peripheral nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glomerular epithelial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ischiadic vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glossopharyngeal nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stratum spongiosum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pre - enameloid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the aortic arch 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glomeral mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ophthalmic vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the migrating macrophage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the macrophage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tail vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ceratobranchial iii ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal rod cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the centriole ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the larval immune system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medial septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mauthner cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal involuting marginal zone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . obliquus inferior primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the postsacral vertebra ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesenchymal stem cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cementum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the iris ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the taste bud ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the female genitalia ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the scapula ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gasserian ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lagena ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cutaneous femoral vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mucus secreting cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory epithelial support cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ciliated non - epidermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nucleate erythrocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endocardial cushion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vertebral artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb digit 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventricular outflow tract ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rohon - beard neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric early proximal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the digit - joint region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 12 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal cone cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the auditory hair cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 11 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stratum compactum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesencephalic vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the head endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the coeliaco - mesenteric artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dentine ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the central canal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . dilatator laryngis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oviduct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastocoel floor ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mitotic spindle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nucleus reticularis medialis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior commissure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch skeleton 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral hypothalamic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesodermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the caudal lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the roof plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral abdominal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pubis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the notoplate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hypochord ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glomerulus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pigment cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb bud tip ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the enameloid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tympanic disk ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the metatarsus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left - ventral blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventromedial thalamic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rostral presomitic mesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the keratinocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuroectoderm outer layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the external coil of the small intestine ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the orbital region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oculomotor motornucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the solitary tract ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior hypothalamus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch skeleton 2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the claw of hindlimb digit 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus abdominis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the barrier cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior lateral line placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sacral neural crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lung ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the utricle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the subcortical cytoplasm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bulbous arteriosis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 7 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ileum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal ganglion cell layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the processus articularis palatoquadrati ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the colon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pigment layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bottle cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trigeminal ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the eberth - kastschenko layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal inner nuclear layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyaloid vascular plexus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb digit 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the amphibian papilla ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dermal bone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral amygdala ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the processus ascendens palatoquadrate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the duodenum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the iridophore ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . transversus anterior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d2 .1 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cementoblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v1 .2 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oral epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pharyngeal epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the postcaval vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal outer nuclear layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left spleen primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the barrier epithelial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory pit ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vagus nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medial ganglionic eminence ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior - proximal mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere r1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 10 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral forebrain bundle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trachea ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the saccular macula ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ascending interneuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prosomere 6 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindlimb region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the perichordal tissue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d2 .1 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal habenular nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fourth ventricle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the branchial arch skeleton 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the eminentia thalami ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left omphalomesenteric vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the exocrine pancreas ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . intermandibularis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endothelial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hyaloid artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the interstitial cell of leydig ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the musculoabdominal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vegetal cortex ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the infraorbital lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic fiber layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the larval intestinal epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the morula cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vestibular apparatus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating eye ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nasociliary artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the floor plate ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the facial vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the seminiferous tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oxygen accumulating cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the migratory neural crest cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spike ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the iliac process ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the manicotto glandulare ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fibrocartilage ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral foregut ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the chordoneural hinge ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior semicircular canal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior tectum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 9 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the gall bladder ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the melanophore ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the wedge region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ciliary body ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sinus venosus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsolateral neural tube ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the parotic crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . geniohyoideus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the apical epithelial cap ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vegetal part ,  early involuting ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating zeugopod skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spiral septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neural groove ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oropharyngeal papilla ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the basal lamina ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . interhyoideus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ring structure ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cleavage furrow ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the enamel ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nucleus of the diagonal band ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the perivitelline space ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ceratobranchial iv ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the claw of hindlimb digit 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the animal cap outer layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of head somite 3 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cornea ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the podocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator scapulae superior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the median fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the magnocellular preoptic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oculomotor nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of tail somite 15 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterodorsal tegmental nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the coelomic epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medial amygdala ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal funiculus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ampullary nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the processus anterior hyalis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the glomerular mesangial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 13 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ischiadic artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal crest of the endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the paracrine cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventrolateral edge of myotome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left - right organizer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tarsus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the interdigital webbing ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rhombomere r8 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the subthalamic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forebrain - midbrain boundary ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 10 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the transverse process ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . quadrato - hyoangularis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myelin accumulating cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pericardial muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myeloid cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal lymph space ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v1 .1 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ceratobranchial i ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the amacrine cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . orbitohyoideus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the capillary system of liver ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the jaw muscle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vestibulocochlear ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the arteria iliaca communis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fibrocellular pad ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sperm entry point ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the outer fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right - ventral blastomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oral cavity ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of tail somite 16 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the secondary myofiber ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the alkali secreting cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stage i oocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the medial nasal prominence ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior amygdala ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rectum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the zygote cortex ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pars media of the stapes ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the aortic arch 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vegetal endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral fin vasculature ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lens fiber cell mass ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the urostyle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stage v oocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skeletal muscle satellite cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of tail somite 18 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nostril ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bone marrow ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the descending interneuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epigastric artery ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 8 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric late proximal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ectodermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the atrial septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fat body ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d1 .2 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the torus semicircularis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the subcommissural organ ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ciliary axoneme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stage ii oocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior - proximal mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endodermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the parabrachial area ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 12 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the organ cortex ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere d2 .2 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the processus posterior hyalis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the upper jaw ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the femoral vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endolymphatic duct ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the optic nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myocoelic slit ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral funiculus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the basal body ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dendrite ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuromast mantle cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral fin margin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the b cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hypobranchial placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the otic region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral tegmentum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus posterior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the bipolar neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral blood island border ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior vena cava ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the infundibulum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pars externa of the stapes ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the choroid ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the skin mucous gland ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of trunk somite 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the endomesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the simple cuboidal epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v2 .1 .1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the absorptive cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the liver parenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the internal coil of the small intestine ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the subintestinal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pyloric sphincter ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . rectus anterior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the olfactory nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the external gill ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the fenestra basicranialis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the commisura quadratocranialis anterior ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal pallium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lampbrush chromosome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pulmonary vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal column nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pronephric sinus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m . levator mandibulae longus internus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the inner limiting membrane ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dental epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the peripheral retina ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the trochlear motornucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the post - anal gut ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the jacobson's vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the abdominal myoblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the claw of hindlimb digit 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the compound organ component ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adrenal cortex ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the appendicular ossicle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the epicardium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior thalamic nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mesonephric early distal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior lateral line ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tongue ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prosomere 5 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the activin - induced ectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the forelimb region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - cililated epidermal cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ceratohyal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the peripheral vegetal yolk mass ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the oligodendrocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the vitelline membrane ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastomere v1 .2 .2 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the notochordal epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pupil ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the urethra ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cutaneous magnus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mm .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the early proximal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the truncus arteriosus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the early distal tubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the joint ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hemangioblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the central nucleus of the thalamus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the blastocoel roof ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intersomitic epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the xanthophore ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral hyoid arch skeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sclerotome of trunk somite 1 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal outer plexiform layer ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prosomere 4 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the accessory nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myotome of tail somite 17 ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left ventricle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the raphe nucleus ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the schwann cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proctodeum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intersomitic tendon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
absence of pronephric tubule .
absence of ceratohyal .
absence of primordial germ cell .
absence of anterior neural tube .
absence of astral microtubule .
absence of spindle microtubule .
absence of apical ectodermal ridge .
absence of autopod .
absence of barbel .
absence of blastopore .
absence of brain .
absence of cartilage element .
absence of cartilaginous condensation .
absence of cement gland .
absence of central nervous system .
absence of eye .
absence of femur .
absence of forelimb .
absence of forelimb bud .
absence of forelimb digit 2 .
absence of forelimb digit 3 .
absence of forelimb digit 4 .
absence of forelimb digit 5 .
absence of forelimb skeleton .
absence of gall bladder .
absence of hand .
absence of head .
absence of hindlimb .
absence of hindlimb bud .
absence of hindlimb digit .
absence of hindlimb digit 2 .
absence of hindlimb digit 3 .
absence of hindlimb digit 4 .
absence of hindlimb digit 5 .
absence of hindlimb stylopod .
absence of hindlimb zeugopod .
absence of hypaxial muscle .
absence of inner ear .
absence of liver primordium .
absence of lung primordium .
absence of melanophore .
absence of meckel's cartilage .
absence of neural tube .
absence of notochord .
absence of olfactory pit .
absence of optic stalk .
absence of otic vesicle .
absence of outflow tract .
absence of planum trabeculare anticum .
absence of regenerating forelimb .
absence of regenerating hindlimb .
absence of regenerating tail .
absence of scapula .
absence of somite .
absence of suprarostral plate .
absence of tail .
absence of tail bud .
absence of tibia - fibula .
absence of trabecula cranii .
absence of upper blastopore lip .
absence of ventral pancreatic bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the alimentary system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the archenteron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the brain .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cement gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ceratobranchial i .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ceratobranchial ii .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ceratobranchial iii .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ceratobranchial iv .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ceratohyal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the chondrocranium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the duodenum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epaxial muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the eye .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the eye primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the foregut .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forebrain .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the heart .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindbrain .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the jaw muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mandibular arch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the meckel's cartilage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the midbrain .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mouth .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the notochord .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pancreas .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pharyngeal arch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pharyngeal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proximal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pseudoblastema .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating forelimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating hindlimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spinal cord .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stomach .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tibia - fibula .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the whole organism .
an increase in the size of the barbel .
an increase in the size of the cardiac ventricle .
an increase in the size of the cement gland .
an increase in the size of the central endoderm .
an increase in the size of the eye .
an increase in the size of the forelimb .
an increase in the size of the forelimb bud .
an increase in the size of the heart primordium .
an increase in the size of the goblet cell .
an increase in the size of the head .
an increase in the size of the heart .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb bud .
an increase in the size of the left atrium .
an increase in the size of the myotome .
an increase in the size of the neural tube .
an increase in the size of the pancreas .
an increase in the size of the primary heart field .
an increase in the size of the pronephric tubule .
an increase in the size of the right atrium .
an increase in the size of the somite .
an increase in the size of the tail somite .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite .
an increase in the size of the ventricular outflow tract .
the presence of an increased number of filamentous actin in the blastocoel roof .
the presence of an increased number of bone element in the forelimb .
the presence of an increased number of dense core granule in the goblet cell .
the presence of an increased number of iridophore in the hindlimb bud .
the presence of an increased number of bone element in the hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of cartilage element in the hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of cartilage element in the forelimb .
the presence of an increased number of multiciliated cell in the epidermis inner layer .
the presence of an increased number of neural progenitor cell in the optic tectum .
the presence of an increased number of neuron in the optic tectum .
the presence of an increased number of cartilage element in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of cartilage element in the regenerating forelimb .
the presence of an increased number of claw of hindlimb digit 1 in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of claw of hindlimb digit 2 in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of claw of hindlimb digit 3 in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of claw of hindlimb digit 4 in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of claw of hindlimb digit 5 in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of hindlimb digit in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of vacuole in the spermatozoon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the barbel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiac ventricle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the central endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the heart primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the goblet cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left atrium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural tube .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the primary heart field .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pronephric tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the right atrium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the somite .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail somite .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventricular outflow tract .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior - posterior axis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the apical junction complex .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the foot .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb digit .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the germ cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hand .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb digit .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proximal - distal axis .
an increase in the height of the dorsal - ventral axis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome .
increased oviduct development in female organism .
abnormal dorsal / ventral axis specification .
abnormal gastrulation .
abnormal left / right axis specification .
abnormal proximal / distal axis specification .
abnormal anterior / posterior axis specification .
abnormally incompletely closed anterior neural fold .
abnormally incompletely closed blastopore .
abnormally incompletely closed choroid fissure .
abnormally incompletely closed neural fold .
abnormally incompletely closed neural tube .
bifurcation of the forelimb .
bifurcation of the hindlimb .
bifurcation of the hindlimb digit 1 .
bifurcation of the hindlimb digit 2 .
bifurcation of the hindlimb digit 3 .
bifurcation of the hindlimb digit 4 .
bifurcation of the hindlimb digit 5 .
bifurcation of the forelimb digit 2 .
bifurcation of the forelimb digit 3 .
bifurcation of the forelimb digit 4 .
bifurcation of the forelimb digit 5 .
abnormally closed posterior neural tube .
decreased length or shortening of the anterior neural fold .
decreased length or shortening of the anterior - posterior axis .
decreased length or shortening of the archenteron .
decreased length or shortening of the glossopharyngeal nerve .
decreased length or shortening of the facial nerve .
decreased length or shortening of the vagus nerve .
decreased length or shortening of the femur .
decreased length or shortening of the forelimb .
decreased length or shortening of the forelimb stylopod .
decreased length or shortening of the forelimb zeugopod .
decreased length or shortening of the hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the hindlimb digit .
decreased length or shortening of the tibia - fibula .
decreased length or shortening of the humerus .
decreased length or shortening of the notochord .
decreased length or shortening of the regenerating tail .
decreased length or shortening of the spinal nerve .
decreased length or shortening of the tail .
decreased length or shortening of the tarsus .
decreased length or shortening of the trunk .
decreased length or shortening of the whole organism .
decreased length or shortening of the posterior region .
decreased length or shortening of the dorsal - ventral axis .
decreased length or shortening of the trigeminal nerve .
the presence of a reduced number of forelimb digit .
the presence of a reduced number of hindlimb digit .
the presence of a reduced number of foot .
the presence of a reduced number of tibia - fibula .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore .
the presence of a reduced number of proximal tubule .
any abnormal tail that is curved dorsally .
any abnormal trunk that is curved dorsally .
any abnormal whole organism that is curved dorsally .
any abnormal anterior - posterior axis that is curved dorsally .
an increase in the size of the iridophore in the epidermis .
an increase in the size of the spike in the regenerating hindlimb .
an increase in the size of the cell in the cranial neural crest .
the presence of an increased number of forelimb digit in the regenerating forelimb .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number forelimb digit .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number metacarpus .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number hindlimb digit .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number hindlimb digit 1 .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number hindlimb digit 2 .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number hindlimb digit 3 .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number hindlimb digit 4 .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number hindlimb digit 5 .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number forelimb digit 2 .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number forelimb digit 3 .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number forelimb digit 4 .
any structural anomaly that causes there to be an abnormal number forelimb digit 5 .
absent or undetectable axon regeneration in optic nerve .
absent or undetectable anterior / posterior pattern specification in midgut .
absent or undetectable mitotic cytokinesis in primary spermatogonium .
the presence of an increased number of hindlimb .
the presence of an increased number of hindlimb digit .
the presence of an increased number of foot .
the presence of an increased number of hindlimb zeugopod .
the presence of an increased number of proximal tubule .
the presence of an increased number of apoptotic cell .
the presence of an increased number of digit .
the presence of an increased number of ciliated epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of forelimb digit .
the presence of an increased number of melanoblast .
the presence of an increased number of melanophore .
the presence of an increased number of non - ciliated epithelial cell .
an increase in the thickness of the epidermis in the hindlimb bud .
an increase in the thickness of the epidermis in the forelimb bud .
increased cell population proliferation .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the ciliated epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the multiciliated cell .
the presence of a reduced number of filopodium in the dermatome .
the presence of a reduced number of filamentous actin in the blastocoel roof .
the presence of a reduced number of trabecula in the heart .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the trunk region .
the presence of a reduced number of multiciliated cell in the epidermis outer layer .
the presence of a reduced number of neural progenitor cell in the optic tectum .
the presence of a reduced number of neuron in the optic tectum .
the presence of a reduced number of cell in the proximal tubule .
increased width of hindlimb bud .
increased width of neural plate .
increased width of pre - chordal neural plate .
increased width of pronephric tubule .
absence of the blood in the heart .
absence of the cardinal vein in the tail .
absence of the cartilage element in the branchial arch .
absence of the digit - joint region in the hindlimb digit 1 .
absence of the digit - joint region in the hindlimb digit 2 .
absence of the digit - joint region in the hindlimb digit 3 .
absence of the digit - joint region in the hindlimb digit 4 .
absence of the digit - joint region in the hindlimb digit 5 .
absence of the digit - joint region in the forelimb digit 2 .
absence of the digit - joint region in the forelimb digit 3 .
absence of the digit - joint region in the forelimb digit 4 .
absence of the digit - joint region in the forelimb digit 5 .
absence of the perichondrium in the regenerating forelimb .
skinny or decreased width of the cartilage element in head .
any abnormal bending of the anterior - posterior axis .
any abnormal bending of the humerus .
any abnormal bending of the anterior neural tube .
any abnormal bending of the tail .
any abnormal bending of the dorsal tail .
any abnormal bending of the dorsal trunk .
any abnormal bending of the left - right axis .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of optic nerve .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of head .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of optic stalk .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of trunk .
an increase in the size of the alimentary system .
an increase in the size of the archenteron .
an increase in the size of the brain .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch skeleton .
an increase in the size of the ceratobranchial i .
an increase in the size of the ceratobranchial ii .
an increase in the size of the ceratobranchial iii .
an increase in the size of the ceratobranchial iv .
an increase in the size of the ceratohyal .
an increase in the size of the chondrocranium .
an increase in the size of the dorsal marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the duodenum .
an increase in the size of the epaxial muscle .
an increase in the size of the eye primordium .
an increase in the size of the fin .
an increase in the size of the foregut .
an increase in the size of the forebrain .
an increase in the size of the hindbrain .
an increase in the size of the hyoid arch skeleton .
an increase in the size of the jaw muscle .
an increase in the size of the mandibular arch .
an increase in the size of the meckel's cartilage .
an increase in the size of the midbrain .
an increase in the size of the mouth .
an increase in the size of the muscle .
an increase in the size of the notochord .
an increase in the size of the pharyngeal arch .
an increase in the size of the pharyngeal region .
an increase in the size of the proximal tubule .
an increase in the size of the pseudoblastema .
an increase in the size of the regenerating forelimb .
an increase in the size of the regenerating hindlimb .
an increase in the size of the spinal cord .
an increase in the size of the stomach .
an increase in the size of the tail .
an increase in the size of the tibia - fibula .
an increase in the size of the trunk .
an increase in the size of the whole organism .
an increase in the size of the anterior - posterior axis .
an increase in the size of the apical junction complex .
an increase in the size of the foot .
an increase in the size of the forelimb digit .
an increase in the size of the germ cell .
an increase in the size of the hand .
an increase in the size of the head mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb digit .
an increase in the size of the proximal - distal axis .
an increase in the size of the hypaxial muscle .
an increase in the size of the ventral trunk .
arrested axis elongation .
arrested developmental process .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bone element in the forelimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the muscle in the forelimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bone element in the hindlimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the muscle in the hindlimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the claw in the regenerating hindlimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb digit in the regenerating hindlimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb digit in the regenerating forelimb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bipolar neuron in the retinal inner plexiform layer .
absence of hatching behavior .
longer ,  increased length of ,  somite
longer ,  increased length of ,  anterior - posterior axis
decreased length or shortening of the axon in the retinal ganglion cell .
decreased length or shortening of the cilium in the gastrocoel roof plate .
decreased length or shortening of the hindlimb digit 1 in the regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the hindlimb digit 2 in the regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the hindlimb digit 3 in the regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the hindlimb digit 4 in the regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the hindlimb digit 5 in the regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the forelimb digit 2 in the regenerating forelimb .
decreased length or shortening of the forelimb digit 3 in the regenerating forelimb .
decreased length or shortening of the forelimb digit 4 in the regenerating forelimb .
decreased length or shortening of the forelimb digit 5 in the regenerating forelimb .
skinny or decreased width of the cement gland .
skinny or decreased width of the craniofacial region .
skinny or decreased width of the head .
skinny or decreased width of the mouth .
skinny or decreased width of the neural plate .
skinny or decreased width of the pre - chordal neural plate .
the presence of a reduced number of bone element in the forelimb digit .
the presence of a reduced number of forelimb digit in the regenerating forelimb .
the presence of a reduced number of digit - joint region in the regenerating forelimb .
the presence of a reduced number of metacarpus in the regenerating forelimb .
the presence of a reduced number of skeletal element in the regenerating forelimb .
the presence of a reduced number of bone element in the hindlimb digit .
the presence of a reduced number of hindlimb digit in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of a reduced number of digit - joint region in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of a reduced number of skeletal element in the regenerating hindlimb .
an abnormally localised cement gland .
an abnormally localised head .
an abnormally localised neural tube .
an abnormally localised tail .
an abnormally localised utricle .
decreased qualitatively muscle cell differentiation .
the presence of a reduced number of ceratohyal .
the presence of a reduced number of ciliated epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of claw .
the presence of a reduced number of metatarsus .
the presence of a reduced number of retinal ganglion cell .
the presence of a reduced number of sarcomere .
the presence of a reduced number of somite .
the presence of a reduced number of spindle microtubule .
the presence of a reduced number of trunk somite .
absence of foot .
absence of wound epidermis .
absence of hindlimb digit 1 .
an increase in the thickness of the blastocoel roof .
an increase in the thickness of the optic nerve .
an increase in the thickness of the ectoderm .
an increase in the thickness of the epidermis .
an increase in the thickness of the humerus .
an increase in the thickness of the neural plate .
an increase in the thickness of the neuroectoderm .
an increase in the thickness of the non - neural ectoderm .
an increase in the thickness of the optic stalk .
decreased qualitatively cell migration in cranial neural crest .
decreased qualitatively mitotic nuclear division in proximal tubule .
decreased qualitatively neuron differentiation in optic tectum .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of retinal pigmented epithelium .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of whole organism .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the globe .
abnormality of enteric nervous system .
abnormality of neutrophil .
abnormality of lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
abnormality of cardiac atrium .
abnormality of peripheral ganglion .
abnormality of anatomical axis .
abnormality of animal - vegetal axis .
abnormality of anterior - posterior axis .
abnormality of dorsal - ventral axis .
abnormality of left - right axis .
abnormality of anatomical side .
abnormality of anterior side .
abnormality of posterior side .
abnormality of dorsal side .
abnormality of ventral side .
abnormality of left side .
abnormality of right side .
abnormality of proximal - distal axis .
abnormality of apical region .
abnormality of axial region .
abnormality of basal region .
abnormality of dorsal region .
abnormality of medial region .
abnormality of otic capsule .
abnormality of migrating myoblast .
abnormality of flexural organ .
abnormality of efferent neuron .
abnormality of afferent neuron .
abnormality of larval alimentary system .
abnormality of cloacal sphincter .
abnormality of ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
abnormality of ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
abnormality of small secretory cell .
abnormality of dorsal telencephalon .
abnormality of intestinal stem cell .
abnormality of rostral notochord .
abnormality of caudal notochord .
abnormality of regenerating lens .
abnormality of superficial layer of neurectoderm .
abnormality of posterior neural fold .
abnormality of embryonic kidney .
abnormality of adult kidney .
abnormality of neurenteric canal .
abnormality of migratory trunk neural crest cell .
abnormality of hindgut endoderm .
abnormality of dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
abnormality of ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
abnormality of posterior hindgut endoderm .
abnormality of anterior hindgut endoderm .
abnormality of apical junction complex .
abnormality of filopodium .
abnormality of ventral trunk .
abnormality of posterior tail .
abnormality of anterior dorsal fin .
abnormality of anterior neuroectoderm .
abnormality of dorsal tail .
abnormality of dorsal trunk .
abnormality of thrombocyte .
abnormality of embryonic thrombocyte .
abnormality of adult thrombocyte .
abnormality of regenerating pelvic girdle .
abnormality of yolk platelet .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the enteric nervous system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neutrophil ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lateral preplacodal ectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cardiac atrium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the peripheral ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical axis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the animal - vegetal axis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior - posterior axis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal - ventral axis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left - right axis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical side ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior side ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior side ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal side ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral side ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the left side ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the right side ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the proximal - distal axis ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the axial region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the otic capsule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the migrating myoblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the flexural organ ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the efferent neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the afferent neuron ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the larval alimentary system ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cloacal sphincter ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ionocyte ,  alpha subtype ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ionocyte ,  beta subtype ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the small secretory cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal telencephalon ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intestinal stem cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the rostral notochord ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the caudal notochord ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating lens ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the superficial layer of neurectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior neural fold ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the embryonic kidney ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adult kidney ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neurenteric canal ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the migratory trunk neural crest cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the hindgut endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral posterior hindgut endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior hindgut endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior hindgut endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the apical junction complex ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the filopodium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral trunk ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior tail ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior dorsal fin ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior neuroectoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal tail ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal trunk ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the thrombocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the embryonic thrombocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adult thrombocyte ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the regenerating pelvic girdle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the yolk platelet ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume of brain  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of forebrain  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undivided of branchial crest  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic of epidermis  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of epidermis  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern of somite  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly of somite  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  neoplastic of somite  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume of heart  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume of heart  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted of heart  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous of heart  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  oblique orientation of heart  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness of myocardium  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased adhesivity of prechordal plate  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume of archenteron  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length of hindgut  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  anterioralized of embryo  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dorsalized of embryo  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  posterioralized of embryo  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  ventralized of embryo  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  agenesis of trachea  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length of alimentary system  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous of alimentary system  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  undifferentiated of alimentary system  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of alimentary system  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume of oral cavity  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length of intestine  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  multiple of pancreas  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly of skeletal muscle  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount of eye  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly ventralized of eye  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised anteriorly of eye  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised medially of eye  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of eye  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  loose of axial mesoderm  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased area of blastopore  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed closure of blastopore  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous of foregut  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coiling of foregut  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  duplicated of cardiac mesoderm  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalized abaxially of cardiac mesoderm  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased volume of blastocoel  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding out of of central endoderm  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased height of anterior neural fold  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized of trunk somite  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  disorganized of myotome  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed phase of mullerian duct  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased diameter of mullerian duct  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  pigmented of optic stalk  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  irregular spatial pattern of cranial neural crest  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution of connective tissue  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  closure incomplete of proctodeum  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  protruding of proctodeum  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dead of whole organism  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curved lateral of whole organism  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  peramorphic growth of whole organism  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  semi - viable of whole organism  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  degeneration of whole organism  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  semi erect of whole organism  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous of head  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of head  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  nodular of trunk  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  curved ventral of tail  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of tail  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of mouth  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed of forelimb  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size of forelimb  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  paralysed of hindlimb  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size of hindlimb  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased volume of chondrocranium  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mass of chondrocranium  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased distribution of hindlimb bud  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  peramorphic growth of hindlimb bud  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  variability of size of hindlimb bud  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic growth of hindlimb bud  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised posteriorly of primordial germ cell  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  posterioralized of primordial germ cell  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  dilated of cardiac ventricle  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  open of neural tube  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed closure of neural tube  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  triangular of radio - ulna  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  bent of metatarsus  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  triangular of tibia - fibula  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  triangular of femur  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalised ventrally of retinal pigmented epithelium  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased amount of hypaxial muscle  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  wholly dorsalized of epaxial muscle  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous of dorsal fin  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  ruffled of dorsal fin  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of ventral tail fin  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  ruffled of ventral fin margin  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of ventral fin margin  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility of migratory neural crest cell  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased mobility of non - neural ectoderm  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility of non - neural ectoderm  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  poorly differentiated of retinal ganglion cell  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased diameter of pronephric tubule  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened of pronephric tubule  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous of regenerating hindlimb  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased branchiness of regenerating hindlimb  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  shortened of regenerating hindlimb  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of regenerating hindlimb  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  aplastic growth of regenerating tail  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of regenerating tail  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness of apical ectodermal ridge  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous of pericardium  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  split of primary heart field  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased thickness of motor neuron  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  defasciculated of motor neuron  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  edematous of pharyngeal region  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted of hindlimb zeugopod  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  incomplete structure of cranial muscle  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  delayed closure of branchial basket  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased mobility of melanoblast  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  simple of proximal tubule  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased coiling of proximal tubule  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  inverted of external coil of the small intestine  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  mislocalized abaxially of anterior foregut  ( temporary definition )  .
any abnormal duplication of the bone element in claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
any abnormal duplication of the bone element in claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
any abnormal duplication of the bone element in claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
any abnormal duplication of the bone element in claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
any abnormal duplication of the bone element in claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
any abnormal duplication of the apical ectodermal ridge in hindlimb bud .
any abnormal duplication of the apical ectodermal ridge in forelimb bud .
any abnormal duplication of the autopod in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb digit in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the femur in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb digit 1 in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb digit 2 in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb digit 3 in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb digit 4 in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb digit 5 in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the forelimb digit 2 in regenerating forelimb .
any abnormal duplication of the forelimb digit 3 in regenerating forelimb .
any abnormal duplication of the forelimb digit 4 in regenerating forelimb .
any abnormal duplication of the forelimb digit 5 in regenerating forelimb .
any abnormal duplication of the pelvic girdle in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the tarsus in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the tibia - fibula in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the zeugopod in regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the cement gland .
any abnormal duplication of the claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
any abnormal duplication of the claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
any abnormal duplication of the claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
any abnormal duplication of the claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
any abnormal duplication of the claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
any abnormal duplication of the femur .
any abnormal duplication of the forelimb .
any abnormal duplication of the forelimb bud .
any abnormal duplication of the hand .
any abnormal duplication of the forelimb stylopod .
any abnormal duplication of the forelimb zeugopod .
any abnormal duplication of the head .
any abnormal duplication of the heart .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb bud .
any abnormal duplication of the foot .
any abnormal duplication of the lens .
any abnormal duplication of the pelvic girdle .
any abnormal duplication of the regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal duplication of the tail .
any abnormal duplication of the trunk .
any abnormal duplication of the utricle .
any abnormal duplication of the anatomical axis .
any abnormal duplication of the anterior - posterior axis .
any abnormal duplication of the dorsal - ventral axis .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb stylopod .
any abnormal duplication of the hindlimb zeugopod .
any abnormal duplication of the dorsal trunk .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length of hindlimb digit 1 in regenerating tissue  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length of hindlimb digit 2 in regenerating tissue  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length of hindlimb digit 3 in regenerating tissue  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length of hindlimb digit 4 in regenerating tissue  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  decreased length of hindlimb digit 5 in regenerating tissue  ( temporary definition )  .
abnormal ( ly )  increased variability of size of cell in endoderm  ( temporary definition )  .
an anomaly in behavior .
abnormal axis specification .
abnormal biological_process .
lack of biological_process .
absence of cell .
absence of anatomical structure .
absence of accessory olfactory bulb .
absence of multi - tissue structure .
absence of multicellular anatomical structure .
absence of cardiac neural crest .
absence of heart .
absence of tissue .
absence of paired appendage .
absence of appendage .
absence of pelvic appendage .
absence of olfactory bulb .
absence of branchial head muscle .
absence of cranial muscle .
absence of skeletal element .
absence of chondrocranium .
absence of chondrocyte .
absence of head somite .
absence of organism subdivision .
absence of trunk .
absence of vein .
absence of head vasculature .
absence of blood vessel .
absence of extraembryonic structure .
absence of olfactory epithelium .
absence of anatomical space .
absence of myotome .
absence of lower blastopore lip .
absence of embryonic structure .
absence of cranial muscle primordium .
absence of endoderm .
absence of posterior hypothalamus .
absence of anatomical system .
absence of anatomical group .
absence of stage v oocyte .
absence of oocyte .
absence of mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
absence of animal cap inner layer .
absence of trunk somite 8 .
absence of trunk somite .
absence of optic vesicle .
absence of radial glial cell .
absence of glial cell .
absence of dorsomedial edge of myotome .
absence of odontogenic papilla .
absence of cell condensation .
absence of optic tectum .
absence of muller cell .
absence of neutrophil .
absence of circulating cell .
absence of muscle .
absence of neuron .
absence of neural crest .
absence of enteric nervous system .
absence of vertebra .
absence of endochondral bone .
absence of cell part .
absence of anatomical cluster .
absence of spinal nerve .
absence of nerve .
absence of dermal skeleton .
absence of skeletal subdivision .
absence of mesoderm .
absence of involuted dorsal mesoderm .
absence of posterior foregut .
absence of peripheral nervous system .
absence of central vegetal yolk mass .
absence of blastema .
absence of regenerating tissue .
absence of trunk somite 2 .
absence of regenerating limb .
absence of pelvic girdle .
absence of endochondral element .
absence of prethalamus basal plate .
absence of dermis .
absence of epidermis .
absence of cranium .
absence of mouth primordium .
absence of solid compound organ .
absence of head region .
absence of anatomical region .
absence of surface structure .
absence of neural stem cell .
absence of stem cell .
absence of cardinal vein .
absence of trunk vasculature .
absence of ilium .
absence of aorta .
absence of artery .
absence of paired dorsal aorta .
absence of dermatome .
absence of internal coil of the small intestine .
absence of basal ganglion .
absence of alimentary system .
absence of regenerating pelvic girdle .
absence of pharyngeal mesenchyme .
absence of mesenchyme .
absence of spinal cord .
absence of cavitated compound organ .
absence of secondary spermatogonium .
absence of germ cell .
absence of lateral line placode .
absence of neurogenic placode .
absence of anterior placodal area .
absence of neuromere .
absence of hindbrain .
absence of presumptive rhombomere .
absence of ectodermal cell .
absence of peripheral ganglion .
absence of olfactory system .
absence of sensory system .
absence of mm .levator arcuum branchialium iii primordium .
absence of sclerotome .
absence of ectoderm .
absence of primary germ layer .
absence of telencephalon .
absence of splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
absence of keratin accumulating cell .
absence of retinal neural layer .
absence of rhombomere r4 .
absence of rhombomere .
absence of liver and biliary system .
absence of cloaca .
absence of visual system .
absence of thrombocyte .
absence of striatum .
absence of right ventricle .
absence of lateral ventricle .
absence of neural plate .
absence of venous endothelium .
absence of uveal tract .
absence of tail somite 15 .
absence of prime meridian .
absence of blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
absence of dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
absence of habenula .
absence of hindgut .
absence of lateral plate mesoderm .
absence of fin margin .
absence of distal stomach .
absence of midbrain tegmentum .
absence of primary heart field .
absence of trigeminal placode .
absence of cornea .
absence of urinary system .
absence of median fin skeleton .
absence of hematological system .
absence of limb segment .
absence of enteroendocrine cell .
absence of endocrine cell .
absence of islets of langerhans .
absence of ventral aorta .
absence of ventral fin margin .
absence of subpallium .
absence of proximal stomach .
absence of centrosome .
absence of second pancreatic bud .
absence of first pancreatic bud .
absence of hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
absence of oropharyngeal papilla .
absence of dorsal lateral line .
absence of lateral line .
absence of simple squamous epithelium .
absence of central canal .
absence of brain ventricle .
absence of truncus arteriosus .
absence of lymphatic system .
absence of compound organ .
absence of claw .
absence of acellular anatomical structure .
absence of circumblastoporal collar .
absence of trunk somite 13 .
absence of avascular gag - rich matrix .
absence of non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
absence of proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
absence of postcranial axial skeleton .
absence of dorsal region .
absence of mandibular arch .
absence of pharyngeal arch .
absence of choroid .
absence of interneuron .
absence of sclerotomal cartilage .
absence of smooth muscle .
absence of neural nucleus .
absence of prethalamus .
absence of involuting marginal zone .
absence of marginal zone .
absence of skin gland .
absence of mesonephric tubule .
absence of mesonephric nephron .
absence of osteoid .
absence of bone tissue .
absence of matrix - based tissue .
absence of supraorbital lateral line .
absence of gastrocoel roof plate .
absence of tympanic annulus .
absence of neuroectoderm .
absence of liver parenchyme .
absence of animal hemisphere .
absence of branchial crest .
absence of progenitor cell .
absence of heart primordium .
absence of digit .
absence of trunk somite 9 .
absence of trunk somite 10 .
absence of dorsolateral neural tube .
absence of foregut .
absence of extracellular matrix .
absence of tail region .
absence of pronephric duct .
absence of duct .
absence of dorsal pancreatic bud .
absence of primordium .
absence of medulla oblongata .
absence of presomitic mesoderm .
absence of liver diverticulum .
absence of non - neural ectoderm .
absence of fin .
absence of trunk neural crest .
absence of tail fin .
absence of midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
absence of anatomical line .
absence of perichondrium .
absence of connective tissue .
absence of metencephalic artery .
absence of blastomere .
absence of vegetal hemisphere .
absence of early embryonic cell .
absence of osteoblast .
absence of blastopore lip .
absence of medial ganglionic eminence .
absence of spike .
absence of dorsal aorta .
absence of cardiac mesoderm .
absence of stapes .
absence of auditory ossicle .
absence of anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
absence of head endoderm .
absence of granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
absence of bone element .
absence of pallidum .
absence of eye muscle .
absence of m . obliquus superior primordium .
absence of visceral pouch 2 .
absence of visceral pouch .
absence of limb .
absence of axial skeleton .
absence of pronephric kidney .
absence of embryonic kidney .
absence of embryo .
absence of sclerotome of head somite 4 .
absence of claw primordium .
absence of m . constrictor laryngis .
absence of laryngeal muscle .
absence of animal cap .
absence of iliofibularis .
absence of m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
absence of mandibular head muscle .
absence of skeletal myocyte .
absence of myocyte .
absence of nucleus reticularis medialis .
absence of trunk placode .
absence of zygote .
absence of neuropil of the optic tectum .
absence of midbrain .
absence of dorsal lymph space .
absence of dermomyotome .
absence of multilaminar epithelium .
absence of tuberal region .
absence of basal body .
absence of m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
absence of hyoid head muscle .
absence of pancreas .
absence of viscus .
absence of m . interhyoideus .
absence of amygdala .
absence of m . rectus anterior primordium .
absence of ganglion .
absence of aortic arch 6 .
absence of ovary .
absence of gonad .
absence of small intestine .
absence of septum .
absence of sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
absence of proepicardium .
absence of hindgut endoderm .
absence of glomus .
absence of infundibulum .
absence of periosteum .
absence of raphe nucleus .
absence of eye primordium .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
absence of larval alimentary system .
absence of larval aorta .
absence of supraoptoparaventricular region .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 1 .
absence of kidney .
absence of isthmic nucleus .
absence of pre - chordal neural plate .
absence of respiratory system .
absence of organ part .
absence of humerus .
absence of radio - ulna .
absence of coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
absence of zeugopod .
absence of muscular system .
absence of elastica externa .
absence of subclavian vein .
absence of tail somite .
absence of epithelial cell .
absence of foregut endoderm .
absence of archenteron .
absence of limb bud .
absence of larval immune system .
absence of immune system .
absence of dental epithelium .
absence of epithelium .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
absence of m . transversus anterior primordium .
absence of epidermis inner layer .
absence of mesenchymal stem cell .
absence of paracrine cell .
absence of horizontal cell .
absence of cardiac atrium .
absence of skeletal muscle satellite cell .
absence of process .
absence of m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
absence of m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
absence of vegetal yolk mass .
absence of preplacodal ectoderm .
absence of cranial placode .
absence of anterior neural ridge .
absence of sensorial layer .
absence of nucleus reticularis inferior .
absence of tail somite 17 .
absence of musculoabdominal vein .
absence of tail somite 14 .
absence of medium cavity .
absence of blood .
absence of internal carotid artery .
absence of mm .levator arcuum branchialium ii primordium .
absence of intersomitic epithelium .
absence of male genitalia .
absence of genital system .
absence of ventral abdominal vein .
absence of trunk somite 11 .
absence of neural plate border .
absence of vascular endothelium .
absence of ventral trunk .
absence of anterior ventral blood island .
absence of dentine .
absence of odontoid tissue .
absence of lateral line system .
absence of duct of cuvier .
absence of forelimb stylopod .
absence of stylopod .
absence of astrocyte .
absence of head mesoderm .
absence of ventral tail fin .
absence of retina .
absence of cutaneous magnus .
absence of branchial arch skeleton 1 .
absence of branchial arch skeleton .
absence of exocrine cell .
absence of stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
absence of spinal neuron .
absence of dorsal marginal zone .
absence of vertebral centrum .
absence of musculoskeletal system .
absence of craniofacial skeleton .
absence of ethmoid region .
absence of caudal vertebra .
absence of visceral pouch 3 .
absence of mandibular crest .
absence of posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
absence of dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
absence of spermatozoon .
absence of gamete .
absence of cartilage tissue .
absence of skeletal tissue .
absence of prepollex .
absence of spiracle .
absence of tendon .
absence of dense regular connective tissue .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 8 .
absence of auditory tube .
absence of pylorus .
absence of intermediate mesoderm .
absence of cardiovascular system .
absence of motor neuron .
absence of gall bladder primordium .
absence of endocrine system .
absence of central amygdala .
absence of trunk musculature .
absence of trigeminal nerve .
absence of cranial nerve .
absence of skin .
absence of lens .
absence of spleen .
absence of pharyngeal region .
absence of epibranchial placode .
absence of germ plasm .
absence of cranial skeleton .
absence of cranial neural crest .
absence of hyomandibular lateral line .
absence of mesencephalic vein .
absence of amputated tissue .
absence of mineralized bone tissue .
absence of mineralized tissue .
absence of blastomere d1 .2 .
absence of animal blastomere .
absence of m . rectus inferior primordium .
absence of neuroendocrine cell .
absence of intestine .
absence of midgut .
absence of skeleton .
absence of trunk somite 6 .
absence of hyoid arch skeleton .
absence of right channel of ventral aorta .
absence of pars distalis .
absence of delta cell .
absence of dorsal funiculus .
absence of chordal neural plate border .
absence of mesonephric early proximal tubule .
absence of cerebral vein .
absence of appendicular skeleton .
absence of pelvic girdle primordium .
absence of vegetal blastomere .
absence of posterior placodal area .
absence of mm .constrictores branchiales iii primordium .
absence of occipitovertebral artery .
absence of pharynx .
absence of ureter .
absence of pallium .
absence of axial region .
absence of ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
absence of blastomere v2 .
absence of granule cell .
absence of ciliary body .
absence of vestibulocochlear nerve .
absence of proximal tubule .
absence of mm .levator arcuum branchialium iv primordium .
absence of adenohypophyseal placode .
absence of trunk somite 1 .
absence of choana .
absence of odontode tissue .
absence of left lymph heart .
absence of blastomere d1 .
absence of aortic arch 5 .
absence of aortic arch .
absence of diencephalon .
absence of hindlimb skeleton .
absence of basal forebrain .
absence of trunk somite 7 .
absence of amputated limb .
absence of forelimb digit .
absence of mesonephric kidney .
absence of adult kidney .
absence of vertebral column .
absence of nervous system .
absence of nucleus accumbens .
absence of dermal bone .
absence of membrane bone .
absence of neural fold .
absence of chordal neural plate .
absence of basilar papilla .
absence of vestibuloauditory system .
absence of cement gland primordium .
absence of m . rectus abdominis .
absence of musculature of face .
absence of processus lateralis hyalis .
absence of primary oogonium .
absence of hyoid crest .
absence of glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
absence of head somite 4 .
absence of postmigratory neural crest cell .
absence of forebrain .
absence of blastomere v2 .2 .
absence of trunk somite 5 .
absence of lymphocyte .
absence of thymocyte .
absence of eye photoreceptor cell .
absence of retinal ganglion cell .
absence of blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
absence of dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
absence of trunk somite 4 .
absence of posterior crista .
absence of sensory epithelial cell .
absence of involuted ventral mesoderm .
absence of trunk somite 12 .
absence of hypophysis .
absence of unilaminar epithelium .
absence of left - dorsal blastomere .
absence of preoptic area .
absence of pronephric nephron .
absence of bone marrow .
absence of anterior semicircular canal .
absence of semicircular canal .
absence of subcommissural organ .
absence of dorsal trunk .
absence of fin vasculature .
absence of interrenal vein .
absence of tail vasculature .
absence of prosomere 6 .
absence of prosomere .
absence of pineal gland .
absence of auditory apparatus .
absence of ventral blood island .
absence of ventral mesoderm .
absence of trunk somite 3 .
absence of processus anterior hyalis .
absence of anterior amygdala .
absence of m . rectus superior primordium .
absence of caudal vein .
absence of gustatory system .
absence of left blastomere .
absence of epicardial precursor cell .
absence of pre - dentine .
absence of oligodendrocyte .
absence of mouth .
absence of oropharynx .
absence of colon .
absence of aortic arch 4 .
absence of ventricular zone .
absence of ossicle .
absence of blastomere v2 .1 .
absence of lens placode .
absence of retinal progenitor cell .
absence of vitelline vein .
absence of female genitalia .
absence of retinal outer nuclear layer .
absence of peritoneum .
absence of serous membrane .
absence of mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
absence of mineralized extracellular matrix .
absence of non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
absence of gut epithelium .
absence of m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
absence of blastomere d2 .2 .
absence of appendicular ossicle .
absence of profundal placode .
absence of myocardium .
absence of secondary oogonium .
absence of testis .
absence of m . dilatator laryngis .
absence of right - dorsal blastomere .
absence of m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
absence of neurocoel .
absence of adipose tissue .
absence of blastomere d2 .
absence of nucleus reticularis superior .
absence of laryngeal muscle primordium .
absence of dorsolateral placode region .
absence of lateral line primordium .
absence of anterior cerebral vein .
absence of dorsal fin .
absence of vegetal endoderm .
absence of metacarpus .
absence of ionocyte .
absence of non - ciliated epithelial cell .
absence of skeletal muscle .
absence of middle lateral line placode .
absence of central endoderm .
absence of blastocoel anlage .
absence of endocardial tube .
absence of atrioventricular valve leaflet .
absence of large intestine .
absence of medial cardinal vein .
absence of omphalomesenteric vein .
absence of epaxial muscle .
absence of skeletal system .
absence of ciliated epidermal cell .
absence of monociliated cell .
absence of epidermal cell .
absence of ciliated cell .
absence of branchial arch .
absence of splanchnocranium .
absence of aortic arch 3 .
absence of sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
absence of intersomitic artery .
absence of intersomitic vessel .
absence of inner limiting membrane .
absence of m . geniohyoideus primordium .
absence of ophthalmic artery .
absence of multiciliated cell precursor .
absence of anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
absence of fourth ventricle .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
absence of mesentery .
absence of rectum .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 4 .
absence of distal tubule .
absence of blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
absence of urogenital system .
absence of lateral postcardinal vein .
absence of mucous gland .
absence of dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
absence of ultimobranchial body .
absence of abducens nerve .
absence of central nucleus of the thalamus .
absence of circumpharyngeal ridge .
absence of basal region .
absence of anteroventral lateral line placode .
absence of small secretory cell .
absence of adenohypophysis .
absence of forelimb zeugopod .
absence of head somite 3 .
absence of pyloric sphincter .
absence of spinal ganglion .
absence of sacculus .
absence of cranial ganglion .
absence of mm .levator arcuum branchialium i primordium .
absence of branchial arch 1 .
absence of lateral line ganglion .
absence of oral epithelium .
absence of neurenteric canal .
absence of oculomotor motornucleus .
absence of m . obliquus superior .
absence of genital ridge .
absence of prosomere 5 .
absence of pars media of the stapes .
absence of hepatic vein .
absence of ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
absence of adult thrombocyte .
absence of periotic region .
absence of trunk lateral line .
absence of whole organism .
absence of rhombomere r6 .
absence of fibrocellular pad .
absence of dorsal thalamus .
absence of cornua trabecula .
absence of digit - joint region .
absence of joint region .
absence of m . intermandibularis primordium .
absence of lateral septum .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
absence of ileum .
absence of dorsal septum .
absence of fibrocartilage .
absence of iridophore .
absence of pigment cell .
absence of myotome of tail somite 17 .
absence of myoblast .
absence of brachet's cleft .
absence of choroid fissure .
absence of footplate of the stapes .
absence of ciliary marginal zone .
absence of proliferative region .
absence of ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
absence of bottle cell .
absence of stromal cell .
absence of fibroblast .
absence of mesodermal cell .
absence of myotome of tail somite 15 .
absence of portion of organism substance .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
absence of upper jaw .
absence of early distal tubule .
absence of circulatory system .
absence of anterior neural fold .
absence of facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
absence of vacuolated notochordal tissue .
absence of paraxial mesoderm .
absence of dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
absence of basihyal .
absence of cerebellum .
absence of hindlimb bud tip .
absence of facial vein .
absence of endocardium .
absence of ischium .
absence of intestinal stem cell .
absence of external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
absence of retinal stem cell region .
absence of m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
absence of filter chamber .
absence of vagal neural crest .
absence of dorsal tegmentum .
absence of presumptive axial mesoderm .
absence of retromammillary area .
absence of posterior neural tube .
absence of photoreceptor layer .
absence of capillary .
absence of liver .
absence of visceral pouch 1 .
absence of tail somite 16 .
absence of m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
absence of braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
absence of involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
absence of axial mesoderm .
absence of intersomitic region .
absence of branchial arch skeleton 2 .
absence of pronephric mesenchyme .
absence of cardia .
absence of retinal ganglion cell layer .
absence of thalamus .
absence of m . interhyoideus primordium .
absence of neuroectoderm inner layer .
absence of m . geniohyoideus .
absence of hypobranchial head muscle .
absence of m . rectus cervicis primordium .
absence of pharyngeal endoderm .
absence of wound epidermis outer layer .
absence of lateral ganglionic eminence .
absence of rathke's pouch .
absence of dorso - lateral marginal zone .
absence of animal cap outer layer .
absence of stomach .
absence of abdominal myoblast .
absence of ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
absence of m . transversus ventralis ii .
absence of right blastomere .
absence of acid secreting cell .
absence of tail tip .
absence of magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 12 .
absence of sacral neural crest .
absence of myotome of head somite 3 .
absence of sinus venosus .
absence of chondroblast .
absence of pericardium .
absence of keratinocyte .
absence of myelin accumulating cell .
absence of dermatocranium .
absence of anterior foregut .
absence of aortic arch 1 .
absence of lateral amygdala .
absence of midgut primordium .
absence of follicle cell .
absence of hematopoietic stem cell .
absence of visceral pouch 5 .
absence of interdigital webbing .
absence of interstitial cell of leydig .
absence of utricle .
absence of ventral lateral line .
absence of olfactory placode .
absence of middle cerebral vein .
absence of subintestinal vein .
absence of cervical vertebra .
absence of blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
absence of adult intestinal epithelium .
absence of simple columnar epithelium .
absence of m . rectus posterior primordium .
absence of aortic arch 2 .
absence of blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
absence of electrically active cell .
absence of secondary heart field .
absence of sacral vertebra .
absence of lateral forebrain bundle .
absence of medial abdominal vein .
absence of infraorbital lateral line primordium .
absence of interdigital region .
absence of processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
absence of glomerulus .
absence of conjunctiva .
absence of atrioventricular canal endocardium .
absence of embryonic thrombocyte .
absence of trochlear motornucleus .
absence of late distal tubule .
absence of otic placode .
absence of lateral crista .
absence of rhombomere r7 .
absence of cilium .
absence of arteria mesenterica posterior .
absence of stratum spongiosum .
absence of posterior region .
absence of median fin .
absence of m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
absence of tendon fibroblast .
absence of hyoid arch .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
absence of mm .constrictores branchiales iv primordium .
absence of hyaloid blood vessel .
absence of dorsal tail fin .
absence of dendrite .
absence of parachordal .
absence of suprablastoporal endoderm .
absence of anterior commissure .
absence of compound organ component .
absence of epigastric artery .
absence of bile duct .
absence of pharyngeal epithelium .
absence of jaw muscle .
absence of middle lateral line .
absence of mineralized cartilage tissue .
absence of caudal tuberal region .
absence of mesonephric late proximal tubule .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 11 .
absence of head somite 2 .
absence of m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
absence of processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
absence of lens epithelium .
absence of laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
absence of zona limitans intrathalamica .
absence of hypophyseal primordium .
absence of m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
absence of postero - ventral region .
absence of lateral semicircular canal .
absence of right spleen primordium .
absence of presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
absence of vagal epibranchial placode .
absence of m . intermandibularis .
absence of retinal cone cell .
absence of epsilon cell .
absence of anterior hypothalamus .
absence of endoskeleton .
absence of sciatic nerve .
absence of posterior vena cava .
absence of optic nerve .
absence of mm .constrictores branchiales ii primordium .
absence of trabecula .
absence of posterior hindgut endoderm .
absence of ceratobranchial i .
absence of migrating neuroblast .
absence of non - involuting marginal zone .
absence of blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
absence of medial pallium .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
absence of organ cortex .
absence of hatching gland primordium .
absence of non - cililated epidermal cell .
absence of m . subarcualis rectus i .
absence of pericyte .
absence of eberth - kastschenko layer .
absence of dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
absence of outer fin .
absence of male organism .
absence of glomeral mesenchyme .
absence of atypical epithelium .
absence of smooth muscle myocyte .
absence of pericardial muscle .
absence of posterior palatine artery .
absence of accessory nerve .
absence of adrenal gland .
absence of vena capitis medialis .
absence of germinal granule .
absence of vestibulocochlear ganglion .
absence of posterior ventral blood island .
absence of superficial layer of neurectoderm .
absence of solitary tract .
absence of oral evagination .
absence of optic fiber layer .
absence of ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
absence of gasserian ganglion .
absence of tail somite 18 .
absence of mesonephric late distal tubule .
absence of atrioventricular canal .
absence of post - anal gut .
absence of otic capsule .
absence of pubis .
absence of saccular macula .
absence of axon .
absence of mm .levator arcuum branchialium iv .
absence of infrarostral .
absence of mauthner cell .
absence of neurocranium .
absence of branchial arch 4 .
absence of central retina .
absence of lens fiber cell mass .
absence of endomesoderm .
absence of female organism .
absence of ventricular outflow tract .
absence of m . rectus superior .
absence of beta cell .
absence of macrophage .
absence of bladder .
absence of ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
absence of blastomere v1 .1 .
absence of oxygen accumulating cell .
absence of mucus secreting cell .
absence of migrating myoblast .
absence of hypothalamus .
absence of pars intermedia .
absence of mesonephric mesenchyme .
absence of filopodium .
absence of hypochord .
absence of biliary tree .
absence of left spleen primordium .
absence of neural groove .
absence of infraorbital lateral line .
absence of pupil .
absence of ophthalmic vein .
absence of m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
absence of caudal artery .
absence of rostral notochord .
absence of blastocoel .
absence of m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
absence of pre - chordal neural plate border .
absence of osseous labyrinth .
absence of blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
absence of barrier cell .
absence of multiciliated cell .
absence of melanotrope .
absence of external carotid artery .
absence of perichondrial cell .
absence of simple cuboidal epithelium .
absence of posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
absence of vestibular apparatus .
absence of facial epibranchial placode .
absence of polar body .
absence of cerebral artery .
absence of animal part ,  late involuting .
absence of pre - enamel .
absence of posterior tectum .
absence of anterior branchial crest .
absence of pharyngeal pouch .
absence of posterior tail .
absence of claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
absence of pulmonary epithelium .
absence of branchial vein .
absence of pars externa of the stapes .
absence of afferent neuron .
absence of planum hypobranchiale .
absence of rib .
absence of fasciculated network of fibrils .
absence of postcaval vein .
absence of lampbrush chromosome .
absence of granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
absence of pharyngeal cavity .
absence of hatching gland .
absence of posterior lateral line ganglion .
absence of mesonephric duct .
absence of cellular bone tissue .
absence of melanoblast .
absence of mm .constrictores branchiales iv .
absence of vascular plexus .
absence of fenestra subocularis .
absence of endolymphatic duct .
absence of prechordal plate .
absence of lateral funiculus .
absence of sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
absence of pigment layer .
absence of claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
absence of anterior crista .
absence of lymph vessel .
absence of thyroid primordium .
absence of olfactory organ .
absence of left - ventral blastomere .
absence of otic region .
absence of regenerating skeletal element .
absence of ventral funiculus .
absence of presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
absence of dorsal telencephalon .
absence of oculomotor nerve .
absence of tympanic disk .
absence of head somite 1 .
absence of mm .levator arcuum branchialium ii .
absence of anterior palatine artery .
absence of m . obliquus inferior .
absence of endoplasmic reticulum .
absence of retinal inner plexiform layer .
absence of inner fin .
absence of oviduct .
absence of taste bud .
absence of pseudoblastema .
absence of mitotic spindle .
absence of prosomere 4 .
absence of blastomere d2 .1 .
absence of postsacral vertebra .
absence of dermal system .
absence of pectoral girdle .
absence of lung bud .
absence of rhombomere r8 .
absence of m . depressor mandibulae .
absence of pre - enameloid .
absence of nucleus of the solitary tract .
absence of torus semicircularis .
absence of floor plate .
absence of primary spermatogonium .
absence of leydig cell .
absence of joint .
absence of myotome of tail somite 16 .
absence of forelimb bud tip .
absence of mm .levator arcuum branchialium iii .
absence of hindgut primordium .
absence of transporting epithelium .
absence of blastocoel floor .
absence of rectal diverticulum .
absence of anterior lymph sac .
absence of blastomere v1 .
absence of pectoral appendage .
absence of posterior cardinal vein .
absence of cardiac myocyte .
absence of posterior lateral line placode .
absence of cementum .
absence of anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
absence of medial region .
absence of monociliated epidermal cell .
absence of efferent neuron .
absence of branchial arch 2 .
absence of regenerating lens .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 3 .
absence of nucleus .
absence of ischiadic artery .
absence of migratory neural crest cell .
absence of vestibule .
absence of retinal progenitor cell region .
absence of left channel of ventral aorta .
absence of xanthophore .
absence of regenerating eye .
absence of kinetochore .
absence of anterior dorsal fin .
absence of mucociliary epithelium .
absence of premigratory neural crest cell .
absence of peripheral retina .
absence of endocardial cushion .
absence of subthalamic nucleus .
absence of pars interna of the stapes .
absence of postero - dorsal region .
absence of proctodeum .
absence of vegetal pole .
absence of acellular bone tissue .
absence of enamel .
absence of astrocyte end - foot .
absence of lateral abdominal vein .
absence of suspensorium .
absence of m . transversus anterior .
absence of middle ear .
absence of non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
absence of hyaline cartilage tissue .
absence of posterior branchial crest .
absence of barrier epithelial cell .
absence of m . cucullaris .
absence of sesamoid .
absence of palatoquadrate .
absence of medial nasal prominence .
absence of nucleate erythrocyte .
absence of blastomere v1 .2 .
absence of vena capitis lateralis .
absence of eminentia thalami .
absence of fin crest .
absence of ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
absence of blastomere d1 .1 .
absence of gastrula cell .
absence of diaphysis .
absence of cementoblast .
absence of dorsal fin vasculature .
absence of neuromast support cell .
absence of left - right organizer primordium .
absence of processus posterior hyalis .
absence of femur rudiment .
absence of enameloid .
absence of posterior lateral line .
absence of third ventricle .
absence of pretectum .
absence of b cell .
absence of spermatocyte .
absence of wound epidermis inner layer .
absence of sclerotomal mesenchyme .
absence of anterior hindgut endoderm .
absence of medial amygdala .
absence of sympathetic chain .
absence of ethmoid bone .
absence of tail vein .
absence of right lymph heart .
absence of thymus .
absence of ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
absence of neurohypophysis .
absence of internal jugular vein .
absence of caudal fin skeleton .
absence of flexural organ .
absence of vertebral element .
absence of secretory epithelial cell .
absence of pronephric nephrostome .
absence of mesonephric early distal tubule .
absence of palatoquadrati .
absence of periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
absence of mullerian duct .
absence of oral cavity .
absence of hepato - pancreatic duct .
absence of parabrachial area .
absence of forebrain - midbrain boundary .
absence of nasociliary artery .
absence of larval intestinal epithelium .
absence of retinal blood vessel .
absence of dorsal pallidum .
absence of microglial cell .
absence of hyaloid artery .
absence of m . petrohyoideus .
absence of trigeminal ganglion .
absence of optic field .
absence of goblet cell .
absence of profundus ganglion .
absence of thyroid .
absence of posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
absence of stage i oocyte .
absence of elastic cartilage tissue .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 13 .
absence of left atrium .
absence of blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
absence of anterior tectum .
absence of archenteron roof midline .
absence of retinal inner nuclear layer .
absence of secondary myofiber .
absence of caudal notochord .
absence of articular system .
absence of ventro - lateral region .
absence of retinal pigmented epithelium .
absence of external coil of the small intestine .
absence of enteric neuron .
absence of spiral septum .
absence of dorsal endoderm .
absence of femoral vein .
absence of dorsal involuting marginal zone .
absence of vertebral artery .
absence of coelom .
absence of proximal mesenchyme .
absence of processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
absence of antrum .
absence of hepatocyte .
absence of blastocoel roof .
absence of locus coeruleus .
absence of animal pole .
absence of pulmonary artery .
absence of ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
absence of ventral septum .
absence of presacral vertebra .
absence of epiphysis .
absence of stage iv oocyte .
absence of ligament .
absence of vegetal part ,  early involuting .
absence of lagena .
absence of lower jaw .
absence of blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
absence of iliac process primordium .
absence of dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
absence of chordoneural hinge .
absence of sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
absence of parathyroid .
absence of mm .constrictores branchiales ii .
absence of multiciliated epidermal cell .
absence of lateral pallium .
absence of amacrine cell .
absence of archenteron floor .
absence of involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
absence of cleavage furrow .
absence of t cell .
absence of stomach body .
absence of amphibian papilla .
absence of retinal outer plexiform layer .
absence of centriole .
absence of ventrolateral neural tube .
absence of angioblast .
absence of lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 7 .
absence of gill primordium .
absence of neuromast mantle cell .
absence of olfactory region .
absence of olfactory epithelial support cell .
absence of anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
absence of vitelline membrane .
absence of m . levator mandibulae externus .
absence of somatic stem cell .
absence of apical epithelial cap .
absence of hyaloid vein .
absence of maxillary artery .
absence of marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
absence of hypoglossal nerve .
absence of fat body .
absence of dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
absence of olfactory nerve .
absence of merkel cell .
absence of sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
absence of skin seromucous gland .
absence of acinar cell .
absence of perichordal tissue .
absence of pronephric sinus .
absence of lung .
absence of hepatic portal vein .
absence of external gill .
absence of myotome of head somite 4 .
absence of branchial arch 3 .
absence of duodenum .
absence of commissural interneuron .
absence of anterior entopeduncular region .
absence of blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
absence of lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
absence of mesencephalic artery .
absence of hindlimb region .
absence of m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
absence of trachea .
absence of podocyte .
absence of ventral foregut .
absence of anterodorsal lateral line placode .
absence of rhombomere r3 .
absence of descending interneuron .
absence of myotome of head somite 2 .
absence of natural killer cell .
absence of glomeral nexus .
absence of ventral tegmentum .
absence of branchial arch skeleton 4 .
absence of arterial endothelium .
absence of coracoid bone .
absence of m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
absence of mm .levator arcuum branchialium i .
absence of vagus nerve .
absence of dorso - lateral region .
absence of dorsal column nucleus .
absence of apical junction complex .
absence of cell body layer of the optic tectum .
absence of neuroectoderm outer layer .
absence of blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
absence of glomerular mesangial cell .
absence of axial ossicle .
absence of somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
absence of morula cell .
absence of optic disc .
absence of tooth .
absence of visceral pouch 4 .
absence of hypobranchial placode .
absence of claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
absence of adult immune system .
absence of metatarsus .
absence of visceral pouch 6 .
absence of trunk region .
absence of ventrolateral edge of myotome .
absence of periocular region .
absence of notoplate .
absence of ventral pallium .
absence of mm .constrictores branchiales iii .
absence of ascending interneuron .
absence of ventral region .
absence of manicotto glandulare .
absence of neural progenitor cell .
absence of adrenal medulla .
absence of alpha cell .
absence of ventral fin vasculature .
absence of dorsal pallium .
absence of non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
absence of processus articularis palatoquadrati .
absence of renal artery .
absence of presumptive ectoderm .
absence of head mesenchyme .
absence of mesonephric sinus .
absence of stage iii oocyte .
absence of dorsal fin skeleton .
absence of posterior cerebral vein .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 5 .
absence of endothelial cell .
absence of yolk platelet .
absence of dorsal habenular nucleus .
absence of coelomic epithelium .
absence of perivitelline space .
absence of ventro - lateral marginal zone .
absence of peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
absence of ceratobranchial ii .
absence of dorsolateral ascending neuron .
absence of germinal vesicle .
absence of retinal stem cell .
absence of tongue .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
absence of stage vi oocyte .
absence of basal lamina .
absence of suprachiasmatic nucleus .
absence of jacobson's vein .
absence of dorsal crest of the endoderm .
absence of anterior cardinal vein .
absence of myocoelic slit .
absence of outer limiting membrane .
absence of notochordal epithelium .
absence of anterior neuroectoderm .
absence of gamma cell .
absence of stratum compactum .
absence of optic chiasm .
absence of rhombomere r2 .
absence of sphenoid region .
absence of mandibular mesenchyme .
absence of endodermal cell .
absence of skin mucous gland .
absence of exocrine pancreas .
absence of anterior region .
absence of fundus .
absence of hemangioblast .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 2 .
absence of trabecula carnea .
absence of m . levator mandibulae articularis .
absence of branchial arch skeleton 3 .
absence of oval window .
absence of mitral cell .
absence of rostral presomitic mesoderm .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 9 .
absence of hyaloid vascular plexus .
absence of amputated fin .
absence of branchial basket .
absence of ventral blood island border .
absence of prehallux .
absence of subinterstitial vein .
absence of blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
absence of regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
absence of ceratobranchial iii .
absence of left - right organizer .
absence of mitotic cell .
absence of periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
absence of ceratobranchial iv .
absence of ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
absence of blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
absence of seminiferous tubule .
absence of egg .
absence of rhombomere r1 .
absence of retinal layer .
absence of migratory trunk neural crest cell .
absence of typhlosole .
absence of spermatid .
absence of caudal presomitic mesoderm .
absence of external jugular vein .
absence of posterior semicircular canal .
absence of sub - blastoporal endoderm .
absence of bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
absence of peripheral nerve .
absence of apical region .
absence of ciliated non - epidermal cell .
absence of rohon - beard neuron .
absence of intersomitic neuron .
absence of posterior commissure .
absence of ciliary axoneme .
absence of apoptotic cell .
absence of claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
absence of globe .
absence of alkali secreting cell .
absence of lower eyelid .
absence of m . levator scapulae superior .
absence of m . rectus cervicus .
absence of follicle layer .
absence of antero - ventral region .
absence of rhombic lip .
absence of migrating macrophage .
absence of iris .
absence of olfactory sensory neuron .
absence of capillary system of liver .
absence of arteria iliaca communis .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 6 .
absence of erythroid cell .
absence of dorsal foregut .
absence of retinal rod cell .
absence of occipital region .
absence of ampullary nerve .
absence of bipolar neuron .
absence of ligament cell .
absence of auditory hair cell .
absence of myeloid cell .
absence of late proximal tubule .
absence of blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
absence of mesonephric collecting duct .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
absence of m . obliquus inferior primordium .
absence of notochordal sheath .
absence of m . rectus inferior .
absence of thoracic region .
absence of craniofacial region .
absence of bowman's gland .
absence of iliac process .
absence of glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
absence of posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
absence of larynx .
absence of subocular cartilage .
absence of antero - dorsal region .
absence of glomerular epithelial cell .
absence of epicardium .
absence of orbital region .
absence of myotome of trunk somite 10 .
absence of ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
absence of commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
absence of nucleus of the diagonal band .
absence of rhombomere r5 .
absence of arteria subclavia .
absence of atrial septum .
absence of sclera .
absence of metencephalic vein .
absence of microtubule .
absence of mandibular artery .
absence of lateral vein .
absence of right - ventral blastomere .
absence of tarsus .
absence of digestive enzyme secreting cell .
absence of pulmonary vein .
absence of mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
absence of glossopharyngeal nerve .
absence of ventral marginal zone .
absence of gastric vein .
absence of motor axon .
absence of cardiac progenitor cell .
absence of forelimb region .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
absence of jacobson's organ .
absence of bulbous arteriosis .
absence of bronchus .
absence of ring structure .
absence of pericardial roof .
absence of nostril .
absence of esophagus .
absence of rostral tuberal region .
absence of stage ii oocyte .
absence of left ventricle .
absence of apical mesenchyme .
absence of carpus .
absence of myotome of head somite 1 .
absence of optic choroid vascular plexus .
absence of claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
absence of egg jelly .
absence of medial septum .
absence of posterior neural fold .
absence of myotome of tail somite 14 .
absence of roof plate .
absence of sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
absence of lateral nasal prominence .
absence of facial nerve .
absence of cardiac valve .
absence of principal cavity .
absence of intersomitic tendon .
absence of granular gland .
absence of unicellular gland .
absence of proximal tubule branch .
absence of occipital lateral line .
absence of pars nervosa .
absence of right atrium .
absence of stirnorgan .
absence of urostyle .
absence of dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
absence of blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
absence of left omphalomesenteric vein .
absence of parotic crest .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
absence of m . orbitohyoideus .
absence of cardiac ventricle .
absence of m . rectus posterior .
absence of mandibular arch skeleton .
absence of mammilary region .
absence of adrenal cortex .
absence of distal mesenchyme .
absence of intersomitic vein .
absence of m . rectus anterior .
absence of anterior thalamic nucleus .
absence of early proximal tubule .
absence of cutaneous femoral vein .
absence of schwann cell .
absence of ischiadic vein .
absence of optic tract .
absence of hatching gland cell .
absence of anterior lateral line placode .
absence of anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
absence of m . levator scapulae inferior .
absence of fenestra basicranialis .
absence of cardiac jelly .
absence of regenerating fin .
absence of stria terminalis .
absence of growth cone .
absence of dorsolateral commissural neuron .
absence of epidermis outer layer .
absence of myotome of tail somite 18 .
absence of caudal lateral line .
absence of simple organ .
absence of transverse process .
absence of ventral pallidum .
absence of dorsal fin margin .
absence of dorsal tail .
absence of cloacal sphincter .
absence of interdigital mesenchyme .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
absence of trochlear nerve .
absence of lens transitional zone .
absence of urethra .
absence of mitochondrial cloud .
absence of sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
absence of blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
absence of sulcus limitans of neural tube .
absence of absorptive cell .
absence of ventral habenular nucleus .
an abnormally localised cell .
an abnormally localised anatomical structure .
an abnormally localised accessory olfactory bulb .
an abnormally localised multi - tissue structure .
an abnormally localised multicellular anatomical structure .
an abnormally localised cardiac neural crest .
an abnormally localised heart .
an abnormally localised tissue .
an abnormally localised foot .
an abnormally localised autopod .
an abnormally localised paired appendage .
an abnormally localised appendage .
an abnormally localised pelvic appendage .
an abnormally localised olfactory bulb .
an abnormally localised branchial head muscle .
an abnormally localised cranial muscle .
an abnormally localised cartilage element .
an abnormally localised skeletal element .
an abnormally localised chondrocranium .
an abnormally localised chondrocyte .
an abnormally localised head somite .
an abnormally localised somite .
an abnormally localised organism subdivision .
an abnormally localised trunk .
an abnormally localised vein .
an abnormally localised head vasculature .
an abnormally localised blood vessel .
an abnormally localised extraembryonic structure .
an abnormally localised olfactory epithelium .
an abnormally localised anatomical space .
an abnormally localised myotome .
an abnormally localised lower blastopore lip .
an abnormally localised embryonic structure .
an abnormally localised cranial muscle primordium .
an abnormally localised endoderm .
an abnormally localised posterior hypothalamus .
an abnormally localised anatomical system .
an abnormally localised anatomical group .
an abnormally localised stage v oocyte .
an abnormally localised oocyte .
an abnormally localised mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormally localised animal cap inner layer .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 8 .
an abnormally localised trunk somite .
an abnormally localised optic vesicle .
an abnormally localised radial glial cell .
an abnormally localised glial cell .
an abnormally localised dorsomedial edge of myotome .
an abnormally localised odontogenic papilla .
an abnormally localised cell condensation .
an abnormally localised optic tectum .
an abnormally localised muller cell .
an abnormally localised neutrophil .
an abnormally localised circulating cell .
an abnormally localised muscle .
an abnormally localised neuron .
an abnormally localised neural crest .
an abnormally localised enteric nervous system .
an abnormally localised vertebra .
an abnormally localised endochondral bone .
an abnormally localised cell part .
an abnormally localised anatomical cluster .
an abnormally localised spinal nerve .
an abnormally localised nerve .
an abnormally localised hand .
an abnormally localised dermal skeleton .
an abnormally localised skeletal subdivision .
an abnormally localised mesoderm .
an abnormally localised involuted dorsal mesoderm .
an abnormally localised posterior foregut .
an abnormally localised peripheral nervous system .
an abnormally localised central vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormally localised blastema .
an abnormally localised regenerating tissue .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 2 .
an abnormally localised regenerating forelimb .
an abnormally localised regenerating limb .
an abnormally localised outflow tract .
an abnormally localised pelvic girdle .
an abnormally localised endochondral element .
an abnormally localised prethalamus basal plate .
an abnormally localised dermis .
an abnormally localised epidermis .
an abnormally localised cranium .
an abnormally localised mouth primordium .
an abnormally localised solid compound organ .
an abnormally localised head region .
an abnormally localised anatomical region .
an abnormally localised surface structure .
an abnormally localised neural stem cell .
an abnormally localised stem cell .
an abnormally localised cardinal vein .
an abnormally localised trunk vasculature .
an abnormally localised ilium .
an abnormally localised aorta .
an abnormally localised artery .
an abnormally localised paired dorsal aorta .
an abnormally localised dermatome .
an abnormally localised internal coil of the small intestine .
an abnormally localised basal ganglion .
an abnormally localised alimentary system .
an abnormally localised regenerating pelvic girdle .
an abnormally localised pharyngeal mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised spinal cord .
an abnormally localised cavitated compound organ .
an abnormally localised secondary spermatogonium .
an abnormally localised germ cell .
an abnormally localised lateral line placode .
an abnormally localised neurogenic placode .
an abnormally localised anterior placodal area .
an abnormally localised neuromere .
an abnormally localised hindbrain .
an abnormally localised presumptive rhombomere .
an abnormally localised ectodermal cell .
an abnormally localised peripheral ganglion .
an abnormally localised olfactory system .
an abnormally localised sensory system .
an abnormally localised mm .levator arcuum branchialium iii primordium .
an abnormally localised sclerotome .
an abnormally localised ectoderm .
an abnormally localised primary germ layer .
an abnormally localised anterior neural tube .
an abnormally localised brain .
an abnormally localised telencephalon .
an abnormally localised splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormally localised keratin accumulating cell .
an abnormally localised retinal neural layer .
an abnormally localised rhombomere r4 .
an abnormally localised rhombomere .
an abnormally localised liver and biliary system .
an abnormally localised cloaca .
an abnormally localised visual system .
an abnormally localised hindlimb bud .
an abnormally localised thrombocyte .
an abnormally localised striatum .
an abnormally localised right ventricle .
an abnormally localised lateral ventricle .
an abnormally localised neural plate .
an abnormally localised venous endothelium .
an abnormally localised uveal tract .
an abnormally localised eye .
an abnormally localised tail somite 15 .
an abnormally localised prime meridian .
an abnormally localised blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
an abnormally localised dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormally localised habenula .
an abnormally localised hindgut .
an abnormally localised lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormally localised notochord .
an abnormally localised fin margin .
an abnormally localised distal stomach .
an abnormally localised midbrain tegmentum .
an abnormally localised primary heart field .
an abnormally localised trigeminal placode .
an abnormally localised cornea .
an abnormally localised urinary system .
an abnormally localised median fin skeleton .
an abnormally localised hematological system .
an abnormally localised limb segment .
an abnormally localised enteroendocrine cell .
an abnormally localised endocrine cell .
an abnormally localised islets of langerhans .
an abnormally localised ventral aorta .
an abnormally localised ventral fin margin .
an abnormally localised subpallium .
an abnormally localised proximal stomach .
an abnormally localised centrosome .
an abnormally localised second pancreatic bud .
an abnormally localised first pancreatic bud .
an abnormally localised hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
an abnormally localised oropharyngeal papilla .
an abnormally localised dorsal lateral line .
an abnormally localised lateral line .
an abnormally localised simple squamous epithelium .
an abnormally localised central canal .
an abnormally localised brain ventricle .
an abnormally localised truncus arteriosus .
an abnormally localised lymphatic system .
an abnormally localised compound organ .
an abnormally localised claw .
an abnormally localised acellular anatomical structure .
an abnormally localised hindlimb digit 1 .
an abnormally localised circumblastoporal collar .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 13 .
an abnormally localised avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormally localised non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
an abnormally localised proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
an abnormally localised postcranial axial skeleton .
an abnormally localised dorsal region .
an abnormally localised mandibular arch .
an abnormally localised pharyngeal arch .
an abnormally localised choroid .
an abnormally localised interneuron .
an abnormally localised sclerotomal cartilage .
an abnormally localised smooth muscle .
an abnormally localised neural nucleus .
an abnormally localised prethalamus .
an abnormally localised involuting marginal zone .
an abnormally localised marginal zone .
an abnormally localised wound epidermis .
an abnormally localised skin gland .
an abnormally localised mesonephric tubule .
an abnormally localised mesonephric nephron .
an abnormally localised osteoid .
an abnormally localised bone tissue .
an abnormally localised matrix - based tissue .
an abnormally localised supraorbital lateral line .
an abnormally localised gastrocoel roof plate .
an abnormally localised tympanic annulus .
an abnormally localised neuroectoderm .
an abnormally localised liver parenchyme .
an abnormally localised animal hemisphere .
an abnormally localised branchial crest .
an abnormally localised progenitor cell .
an abnormally localised heart primordium .
an abnormally localised hindlimb digit .
an abnormally localised digit .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 9 .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 10 .
an abnormally localised dorsolateral neural tube .
an abnormally localised foregut .
an abnormally localised extracellular matrix .
an abnormally localised tail region .
an abnormally localised pronephric duct .
an abnormally localised duct .
an abnormally localised dorsal pancreatic bud .
an abnormally localised primordium .
an abnormally localised medulla oblongata .
an abnormally localised presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormally localised liver diverticulum .
an abnormally localised non - neural ectoderm .
an abnormally localised fin .
an abnormally localised trunk neural crest .
an abnormally localised tail fin .
an abnormally localised midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an abnormally localised anatomical line .
an abnormally localised perichondrium .
an abnormally localised connective tissue .
an abnormally localised metencephalic artery .
an abnormally localised blastomere .
an abnormally localised vegetal hemisphere .
an abnormally localised early embryonic cell .
an abnormally localised osteoblast .
an abnormally localised blastopore lip .
an abnormally localised medial ganglionic eminence .
an abnormally localised spike .
an abnormally localised dorsal aorta .
an abnormally localised cardiac mesoderm .
an abnormally localised stapes .
an abnormally localised auditory ossicle .
an abnormally localised anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
an abnormally localised head endoderm .
an abnormally localised granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
an abnormally localised bone element .
an abnormally localised pallidum .
an abnormally localised eye muscle .
an abnormally localised m . obliquus superior primordium .
an abnormally localised visceral pouch 2 .
an abnormally localised visceral pouch .
an abnormally localised forelimb .
an abnormally localised limb .
an abnormally localised axial skeleton .
an abnormally localised pronephric kidney .
an abnormally localised embryonic kidney .
an abnormally localised embryo .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of head somite 4 .
an abnormally localised claw primordium .
an abnormally localised m . constrictor laryngis .
an abnormally localised laryngeal muscle .
an abnormally localised animal cap .
an abnormally localised iliofibularis .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
an abnormally localised mandibular head muscle .
an abnormally localised skeletal myocyte .
an abnormally localised myocyte .
an abnormally localised nucleus reticularis medialis .
an abnormally localised trunk placode .
an abnormally localised zygote .
an abnormally localised neuropil of the optic tectum .
an abnormally localised midbrain .
an abnormally localised hindlimb digit 4 .
an abnormally localised forelimb skeleton .
an abnormally localised dorsal lymph space .
an abnormally localised dermomyotome .
an abnormally localised multilaminar epithelium .
an abnormally localised tuberal region .
an abnormally localised basal body .
an abnormally localised m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
an abnormally localised hyoid head muscle .
an abnormally localised pancreas .
an abnormally localised viscus .
an abnormally localised m . interhyoideus .
an abnormally localised amygdala .
an abnormally localised m . rectus anterior primordium .
an abnormally localised ganglion .
an abnormally localised aortic arch 6 .
an abnormally localised ovary .
an abnormally localised gonad .
an abnormally localised small intestine .
an abnormally localised septum .
an abnormally localised sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
an abnormally localised pronephric tubule .
an abnormally localised proepicardium .
an abnormally localised hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally localised glomus .
an abnormally localised infundibulum .
an abnormally localised periosteum .
an abnormally localised raphe nucleus .
an abnormally localised eye primordium .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
an abnormally localised larval alimentary system .
an abnormally localised larval aorta .
an abnormally localised supraoptoparaventricular region .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 1 .
an abnormally localised kidney .
an abnormally localised isthmic nucleus .
an abnormally localised pre - chordal neural plate .
an abnormally localised respiratory system .
an abnormally localised organ part .
an abnormally localised humerus .
an abnormally localised tibia - fibula .
an abnormally localised femur .
an abnormally localised radio - ulna .
an abnormally localised coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
an abnormally localised zeugopod .
an abnormally localised muscular system .
an abnormally localised elastica externa .
an abnormally localised subclavian vein .
an abnormally localised tail somite .
an abnormally localised epithelial cell .
an abnormally localised foregut endoderm .
an abnormally localised archenteron .
an abnormally localised limb bud .
an abnormally localised larval immune system .
an abnormally localised immune system .
an abnormally localised dental epithelium .
an abnormally localised epithelium .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
an abnormally localised m . transversus anterior primordium .
an abnormally localised epidermis inner layer .
an abnormally localised mesenchymal stem cell .
an abnormally localised paracrine cell .
an abnormally localised horizontal cell .
an abnormally localised cardiac atrium .
an abnormally localised skeletal muscle satellite cell .
an abnormally localised process .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
an abnormally localised m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
an abnormally localised vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormally localised preplacodal ectoderm .
an abnormally localised cranial placode .
an abnormally localised anterior neural ridge .
an abnormally localised sensorial layer .
an abnormally localised nucleus reticularis inferior .
an abnormally localised tail somite 17 .
an abnormally localised musculoabdominal vein .
an abnormally localised tail somite 14 .
an abnormally localised medium cavity .
an abnormally localised blood .
an abnormally localised internal carotid artery .
an abnormally localised mm .levator arcuum branchialium ii primordium .
an abnormally localised intersomitic epithelium .
an abnormally localised male genitalia .
an abnormally localised genital system .
an abnormally localised ventral abdominal vein .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 11 .
an abnormally localised neural plate border .
an abnormally localised vascular endothelium .
an abnormally localised ventral trunk .
an abnormally localised anterior ventral blood island .
an abnormally localised dentine .
an abnormally localised odontoid tissue .
an abnormally localised lateral line system .
an abnormally localised duct of cuvier .
an abnormally localised forelimb stylopod .
an abnormally localised stylopod .
an abnormally localised astrocyte .
an abnormally localised head mesoderm .
an abnormally localised ventral tail fin .
an abnormally localised retina .
an abnormally localised cutaneous magnus .
an abnormally localised branchial arch skeleton 1 .
an abnormally localised branchial arch skeleton .
an abnormally localised exocrine cell .
an abnormally localised stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
an abnormally localised spinal neuron .
an abnormally localised dorsal marginal zone .
an abnormally localised vertebral centrum .
an abnormally localised musculoskeletal system .
an abnormally localised craniofacial skeleton .
an abnormally localised ethmoid region .
an abnormally localised caudal vertebra .
an abnormally localised visceral pouch 3 .
an abnormally localised mandibular crest .
an abnormally localised posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally localised dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
an abnormally localised spermatozoon .
an abnormally localised gamete .
an abnormally localised cartilage tissue .
an abnormally localised skeletal tissue .
an abnormally localised prepollex .
an abnormally localised spiracle .
an abnormally localised tendon .
an abnormally localised dense regular connective tissue .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 8 .
an abnormally localised auditory tube .
an abnormally localised pylorus .
an abnormally localised intermediate mesoderm .
an abnormally localised cardiovascular system .
an abnormally localised motor neuron .
an abnormally localised gall bladder primordium .
an abnormally localised endocrine system .
an abnormally localised central amygdala .
an abnormally localised trunk musculature .
an abnormally localised trigeminal nerve .
an abnormally localised cranial nerve .
an abnormally localised skin .
an abnormally localised lens .
an abnormally localised spleen .
an abnormally localised pharyngeal region .
an abnormally localised epibranchial placode .
an abnormally localised germ plasm .
an abnormally localised cranial skeleton .
an abnormally localised cranial neural crest .
an abnormally localised hyomandibular lateral line .
an abnormally localised mesencephalic vein .
an abnormally localised amputated tissue .
an abnormally localised mineralized bone tissue .
an abnormally localised mineralized tissue .
an abnormally localised blastomere d1 .2 .
an abnormally localised animal blastomere .
an abnormally localised m . rectus inferior primordium .
an abnormally localised neuroendocrine cell .
an abnormally localised intestine .
an abnormally localised midgut .
an abnormally localised skeleton .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 6 .
an abnormally localised hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormally localised right channel of ventral aorta .
an abnormally localised pars distalis .
an abnormally localised delta cell .
an abnormally localised dorsal funiculus .
an abnormally localised chordal neural plate border .
an abnormally localised mesonephric early proximal tubule .
an abnormally localised cerebral vein .
an abnormally localised appendicular skeleton .
an abnormally localised pelvic girdle primordium .
an abnormally localised vegetal blastomere .
an abnormally localised posterior placodal area .
an abnormally localised mm .constrictores branchiales iii primordium .
an abnormally localised occipitovertebral artery .
an abnormally localised pharynx .
an abnormally localised ureter .
an abnormally localised pallium .
an abnormally localised ventral pancreatic bud .
an abnormally localised axial region .
an abnormally localised ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormally localised blastomere v2 .
an abnormally localised forelimb bud .
an abnormally localised granule cell .
an abnormally localised ciliary body .
an abnormally localised vestibulocochlear nerve .
an abnormally localised proximal tubule .
an abnormally localised mm .levator arcuum branchialium iv primordium .
an abnormally localised adenohypophyseal placode .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 1 .
an abnormally localised choana .
an abnormally localised odontode tissue .
an abnormally localised left lymph heart .
an abnormally localised blastomere d1 .
an abnormally localised aortic arch 5 .
an abnormally localised aortic arch .
an abnormally localised diencephalon .
an abnormally localised hindlimb skeleton .
an abnormally localised basal forebrain .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 7 .
an abnormally localised amputated limb .
an abnormally localised forelimb digit .
an abnormally localised inner ear .
an abnormally localised mesonephric kidney .
an abnormally localised adult kidney .
an abnormally localised vertebral column .
an abnormally localised nervous system .
an abnormally localised nucleus accumbens .
an abnormally localised dermal bone .
an abnormally localised membrane bone .
an abnormally localised neural fold .
an abnormally localised chordal neural plate .
an abnormally localised basilar papilla .
an abnormally localised vestibuloauditory system .
an abnormally localised cement gland primordium .
an abnormally localised m . rectus abdominis .
an abnormally localised musculature of face .
an abnormally localised processus lateralis hyalis .
an abnormally localised primary oogonium .
an abnormally localised hyoid crest .
an abnormally localised glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormally localised head somite 4 .
an abnormally localised postmigratory neural crest cell .
an abnormally localised forebrain .
an abnormally localised blastomere v2 .2 .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 5 .
an abnormally localised lymphocyte .
an abnormally localised thymocyte .
an abnormally localised eye photoreceptor cell .
an abnormally localised retinal ganglion cell .
an abnormally localised blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
an abnormally localised dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 4 .
an abnormally localised posterior crista .
an abnormally localised sensory epithelial cell .
an abnormally localised involuted ventral mesoderm .
an abnormally localised hindlimb stylopod .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 12 .
an abnormally localised hypophysis .
an abnormally localised unilaminar epithelium .
an abnormally localised left - dorsal blastomere .
an abnormally localised preoptic area .
an abnormally localised pronephric nephron .
an abnormally localised bone marrow .
an abnormally localised anterior semicircular canal .
an abnormally localised semicircular canal .
an abnormally localised subcommissural organ .
an abnormally localised dorsal trunk .
an abnormally localised fin vasculature .
an abnormally localised interrenal vein .
an abnormally localised tail vasculature .
an abnormally localised prosomere 6 .
an abnormally localised prosomere .
an abnormally localised pineal gland .
an abnormally localised liver primordium .
an abnormally localised auditory apparatus .
an abnormally localised ventral blood island .
an abnormally localised ventral mesoderm .
an abnormally localised trunk somite 3 .
an abnormally localised processus anterior hyalis .
an abnormally localised anterior amygdala .
an abnormally localised m . rectus superior primordium .
an abnormally localised caudal vein .
an abnormally localised forelimb digit 3 .
an abnormally localised gustatory system .
an abnormally localised left blastomere .
an abnormally localised epicardial precursor cell .
an abnormally localised pre - dentine .
an abnormally localised oligodendrocyte .
an abnormally localised mouth .
an abnormally localised oropharynx .
an abnormally localised colon .
an abnormally localised aortic arch 4 .
an abnormally localised ventricular zone .
an abnormally localised ossicle .
an abnormally localised blastomere v2 .1 .
an abnormally localised lens placode .
an abnormally localised retinal progenitor cell .
an abnormally localised vitelline vein .
an abnormally localised female genitalia .
an abnormally localised lung primordium .
an abnormally localised retinal outer nuclear layer .
an abnormally localised peritoneum .
an abnormally localised serous membrane .
an abnormally localised mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormally localised mineralized extracellular matrix .
an abnormally localised non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
an abnormally localised gut epithelium .
an abnormally localised m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
an abnormally localised blastomere d2 .2 .
an abnormally localised appendicular ossicle .
an abnormally localised profundal placode .
an abnormally localised hindlimb .
an abnormally localised myocardium .
an abnormally localised secondary oogonium .
an abnormally localised primordial germ cell .
an abnormally localised testis .
an abnormally localised m . dilatator laryngis .
an abnormally localised right - dorsal blastomere .
an abnormally localised m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
an abnormally localised neurocoel .
an abnormally localised adipose tissue .
an abnormally localised blastomere d2 .
an abnormally localised nucleus reticularis superior .
an abnormally localised laryngeal muscle primordium .
an abnormally localised dorsolateral placode region .
an abnormally localised lateral line primordium .
an abnormally localised anterior cerebral vein .
an abnormally localised dorsal fin .
an abnormally localised vegetal endoderm .
an abnormally localised metacarpus .
an abnormally localised ionocyte .
an abnormally localised non - ciliated epithelial cell .
an abnormally localised skeletal muscle .
an abnormally localised middle lateral line placode .
an abnormally localised central endoderm .
an abnormally localised blastocoel anlage .
an abnormally localised endocardial tube .
an abnormally localised atrioventricular valve leaflet .
an abnormally localised large intestine .
an abnormally localised medial cardinal vein .
an abnormally localised omphalomesenteric vein .
an abnormally localised epaxial muscle .
an abnormally localised suprarostral plate .
an abnormally localised skeletal system .
an abnormally localised optic stalk .
an abnormally localised ciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormally localised monociliated cell .
an abnormally localised epidermal cell .
an abnormally localised ciliated cell .
an abnormally localised branchial arch .
an abnormally localised splanchnocranium .
an abnormally localised hindlimb digit 5 .
an abnormally localised aortic arch 3 .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
an abnormally localised intersomitic artery .
an abnormally localised intersomitic vessel .
an abnormally localised inner limiting membrane .
an abnormally localised m . geniohyoideus primordium .
an abnormally localised ophthalmic artery .
an abnormally localised multiciliated cell precursor .
an abnormally localised anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally localised fourth ventricle .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
an abnormally localised mesentery .
an abnormally localised rectum .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 4 .
an abnormally localised distal tubule .
an abnormally localised blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
an abnormally localised urogenital system .
an abnormally localised lateral postcardinal vein .
an abnormally localised mucous gland .
an abnormally localised dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
an abnormally localised ultimobranchial body .
an abnormally localised abducens nerve .
an abnormally localised central nucleus of the thalamus .
an abnormally localised circumpharyngeal ridge .
an abnormally localised basal region .
an abnormally localised anteroventral lateral line placode .
an abnormally localised small secretory cell .
an abnormally localised adenohypophysis .
an abnormally localised forelimb zeugopod .
an abnormally localised head somite 3 .
an abnormally localised pyloric sphincter .
an abnormally localised spinal ganglion .
an abnormally localised sacculus .
an abnormally localised cranial ganglion .
an abnormally localised mm .levator arcuum branchialium i primordium .
an abnormally localised branchial arch 1 .
an abnormally localised lateral line ganglion .
an abnormally localised oral epithelium .
an abnormally localised neurenteric canal .
an abnormally localised oculomotor motornucleus .
an abnormally localised m . obliquus superior .
an abnormally localised genital ridge .
an abnormally localised prosomere 5 .
an abnormally localised pars media of the stapes .
an abnormally localised hepatic vein .
an abnormally localised ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
an abnormally localised adult thrombocyte .
an abnormally localised periotic region .
an abnormally localised trunk lateral line .
an abnormally localised whole organism .
an abnormally localised rhombomere r6 .
an abnormally localised fibrocellular pad .
an abnormally localised dorsal thalamus .
an abnormally localised cornua trabecula .
an abnormally localised digit - joint region .
an abnormally localised joint region .
an abnormally localised m . intermandibularis primordium .
an abnormally localised lateral septum .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
an abnormally localised ileum .
an abnormally localised dorsal septum .
an abnormally localised fibrocartilage .
an abnormally localised iridophore .
an abnormally localised pigment cell .
an abnormally localised myotome of tail somite 17 .
an abnormally localised myoblast .
an abnormally localised brachet's cleft .
an abnormally localised choroid fissure .
an abnormally localised footplate of the stapes .
an abnormally localised ciliary marginal zone .
an abnormally localised proliferative region .
an abnormally localised ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
an abnormally localised bottle cell .
an abnormally localised stromal cell .
an abnormally localised fibroblast .
an abnormally localised mesodermal cell .
an abnormally localised myotome of tail somite 15 .
an abnormally localised portion of organism substance .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
an abnormally localised upper jaw .
an abnormally localised early distal tubule .
an abnormally localised circulatory system .
an abnormally localised anterior neural fold .
an abnormally localised facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
an abnormally localised vacuolated notochordal tissue .
an abnormally localised paraxial mesoderm .
an abnormally localised dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormally localised basihyal .
an abnormally localised cerebellum .
an abnormally localised hindlimb bud tip .
an abnormally localised facial vein .
an abnormally localised endocardium .
an abnormally localised ischium .
an abnormally localised intestinal stem cell .
an abnormally localised external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormally localised retinal stem cell region .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
an abnormally localised filter chamber .
an abnormally localised vagal neural crest .
an abnormally localised dorsal tegmentum .
an abnormally localised presumptive axial mesoderm .
an abnormally localised retromammillary area .
an abnormally localised posterior neural tube .
an abnormally localised photoreceptor layer .
an abnormally localised central nervous system .
an abnormally localised capillary .
an abnormally localised liver .
an abnormally localised visceral pouch 1 .
an abnormally localised tail somite 16 .
an abnormally localised m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
an abnormally localised braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
an abnormally localised involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
an abnormally localised axial mesoderm .
an abnormally localised intersomitic region .
an abnormally localised branchial arch skeleton 2 .
an abnormally localised pronephric mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised cardia .
an abnormally localised retinal ganglion cell layer .
an abnormally localised hindlimb digit 2 .
an abnormally localised thalamus .
an abnormally localised m . interhyoideus primordium .
an abnormally localised neuroectoderm inner layer .
an abnormally localised m . geniohyoideus .
an abnormally localised hypobranchial head muscle .
an abnormally localised m . rectus cervicis primordium .
an abnormally localised pharyngeal endoderm .
an abnormally localised wound epidermis outer layer .
an abnormally localised lateral ganglionic eminence .
an abnormally localised rathke's pouch .
an abnormally localised dorso - lateral marginal zone .
an abnormally localised animal cap outer layer .
an abnormally localised stomach .
an abnormally localised abdominal myoblast .
an abnormally localised ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
an abnormally localised m . transversus ventralis ii .
an abnormally localised right blastomere .
an abnormally localised acid secreting cell .
an abnormally localised tail tip .
an abnormally localised tail bud .
an abnormally localised magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 12 .
an abnormally localised sacral neural crest .
an abnormally localised myotome of head somite 3 .
an abnormally localised sinus venosus .
an abnormally localised chondroblast .
an abnormally localised pericardium .
an abnormally localised keratinocyte .
an abnormally localised myelin accumulating cell .
an abnormally localised dermatocranium .
an abnormally localised anterior foregut .
an abnormally localised aortic arch 1 .
an abnormally localised lateral amygdala .
an abnormally localised midgut primordium .
an abnormally localised follicle cell .
an abnormally localised hematopoietic stem cell .
an abnormally localised visceral pouch 5 .
an abnormally localised interdigital webbing .
an abnormally localised interstitial cell of leydig .
an abnormally localised ventral lateral line .
an abnormally localised olfactory placode .
an abnormally localised middle cerebral vein .
an abnormally localised subintestinal vein .
an abnormally localised cervical vertebra .
an abnormally localised blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
an abnormally localised adult intestinal epithelium .
an abnormally localised simple columnar epithelium .
an abnormally localised m . rectus posterior primordium .
an abnormally localised aortic arch 2 .
an abnormally localised blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
an abnormally localised electrically active cell .
an abnormally localised secondary heart field .
an abnormally localised sacral vertebra .
an abnormally localised lateral forebrain bundle .
an abnormally localised medial abdominal vein .
an abnormally localised infraorbital lateral line primordium .
an abnormally localised interdigital region .
an abnormally localised processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
an abnormally localised glomerulus .
an abnormally localised conjunctiva .
an abnormally localised atrioventricular canal endocardium .
an abnormally localised olfactory pit .
an abnormally localised embryonic thrombocyte .
an abnormally localised trochlear motornucleus .
an abnormally localised blastopore .
an abnormally localised late distal tubule .
an abnormally localised otic placode .
an abnormally localised lateral crista .
an abnormally localised rhombomere r7 .
an abnormally localised ceratohyal .
an abnormally localised cilium .
an abnormally localised arteria mesenterica posterior .
an abnormally localised stratum spongiosum .
an abnormally localised posterior region .
an abnormally localised median fin .
an abnormally localised otic vesicle .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
an abnormally localised tendon fibroblast .
an abnormally localised hyoid arch .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
an abnormally localised mm .constrictores branchiales iv primordium .
an abnormally localised hyaloid blood vessel .
an abnormally localised dorsal tail fin .
an abnormally localised dendrite .
an abnormally localised parachordal .
an abnormally localised suprablastoporal endoderm .
an abnormally localised anterior commissure .
an abnormally localised compound organ component .
an abnormally localised epigastric artery .
an abnormally localised bile duct .
an abnormally localised pharyngeal epithelium .
an abnormally localised jaw muscle .
an abnormally localised middle lateral line .
an abnormally localised mineralized cartilage tissue .
an abnormally localised caudal tuberal region .
an abnormally localised mesonephric late proximal tubule .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 11 .
an abnormally localised head somite 2 .
an abnormally localised m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
an abnormally localised processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
an abnormally localised lens epithelium .
an abnormally localised laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally localised zona limitans intrathalamica .
an abnormally localised hypophyseal primordium .
an abnormally localised m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
an abnormally localised postero - ventral region .
an abnormally localised wedge region .
an abnormally localised lateral semicircular canal .
an abnormally localised right spleen primordium .
an abnormally localised presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
an abnormally localised vagal epibranchial placode .
an abnormally localised m . intermandibularis .
an abnormally localised retinal cone cell .
an abnormally localised epsilon cell .
an abnormally localised anterior hypothalamus .
an abnormally localised endoskeleton .
an abnormally localised sciatic nerve .
an abnormally localised posterior vena cava .
an abnormally localised optic nerve .
an abnormally localised mm .constrictores branchiales ii primordium .
an abnormally localised trabecula .
an abnormally localised posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally localised ceratobranchial i .
an abnormally localised hindlimb zeugopod .
an abnormally localised migrating neuroblast .
an abnormally localised non - involuting marginal zone .
an abnormally localised blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
an abnormally localised gall bladder .
an abnormally localised medial pallium .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
an abnormally localised organ cortex .
an abnormally localised hatching gland primordium .
an abnormally localised non - cililated epidermal cell .
an abnormally localised m . subarcualis rectus i .
an abnormally localised pericyte .
an abnormally localised eberth - kastschenko layer .
an abnormally localised dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormally localised outer fin .
an abnormally localised male organism .
an abnormally localised glomeral mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised atypical epithelium .
an abnormally localised smooth muscle myocyte .
an abnormally localised pericardial muscle .
an abnormally localised posterior palatine artery .
an abnormally localised accessory nerve .
an abnormally localised adrenal gland .
an abnormally localised vena capitis medialis .
an abnormally localised germinal granule .
an abnormally localised vestibulocochlear ganglion .
an abnormally localised posterior ventral blood island .
an abnormally localised superficial layer of neurectoderm .
an abnormally localised solitary tract .
an abnormally localised oral evagination .
an abnormally localised optic fiber layer .
an abnormally localised ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
an abnormally localised gasserian ganglion .
an abnormally localised tail somite 18 .
an abnormally localised mesonephric late distal tubule .
an abnormally localised atrioventricular canal .
an abnormally localised post - anal gut .
an abnormally localised otic capsule .
an abnormally localised pubis .
an abnormally localised saccular macula .
an abnormally localised axon .
an abnormally localised mm .levator arcuum branchialium iv .
an abnormally localised cartilaginous condensation .
an abnormally localised infrarostral .
an abnormally localised mauthner cell .
an abnormally localised neurocranium .
an abnormally localised branchial arch 4 .
an abnormally localised central retina .
an abnormally localised lens fiber cell mass .
an abnormally localised endomesoderm .
an abnormally localised female organism .
an abnormally localised ventricular outflow tract .
an abnormally localised m . rectus superior .
an abnormally localised beta cell .
an abnormally localised macrophage .
an abnormally localised bladder .
an abnormally localised ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormally localised blastomere v1 .1 .
an abnormally localised oxygen accumulating cell .
an abnormally localised mucus secreting cell .
an abnormally localised migrating myoblast .
an abnormally localised hypothalamus .
an abnormally localised pars intermedia .
an abnormally localised mesonephric mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised filopodium .
an abnormally localised hypochord .
an abnormally localised biliary tree .
an abnormally localised left spleen primordium .
an abnormally localised neural groove .
an abnormally localised infraorbital lateral line .
an abnormally localised pupil .
an abnormally localised ophthalmic vein .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
an abnormally localised caudal artery .
an abnormally localised rostral notochord .
an abnormally localised blastocoel .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
an abnormally localised pre - chordal neural plate border .
an abnormally localised osseous labyrinth .
an abnormally localised blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
an abnormally localised barrier cell .
an abnormally localised multiciliated cell .
an abnormally localised melanotrope .
an abnormally localised external carotid artery .
an abnormally localised perichondrial cell .
an abnormally localised simple cuboidal epithelium .
an abnormally localised posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally localised vestibular apparatus .
an abnormally localised facial epibranchial placode .
an abnormally localised polar body .
an abnormally localised cerebral artery .
an abnormally localised animal part ,  late involuting .
an abnormally localised pre - enamel .
an abnormally localised posterior tectum .
an abnormally localised anterior branchial crest .
an abnormally localised pharyngeal pouch .
an abnormally localised posterior tail .
an abnormally localised claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
an abnormally localised pulmonary epithelium .
an abnormally localised branchial vein .
an abnormally localised pars externa of the stapes .
an abnormally localised afferent neuron .
an abnormally localised planum hypobranchiale .
an abnormally localised rib .
an abnormally localised fasciculated network of fibrils .
an abnormally localised postcaval vein .
an abnormally localised lampbrush chromosome .
an abnormally localised granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormally localised pharyngeal cavity .
an abnormally localised planum trabeculare anticum .
an abnormally localised hatching gland .
an abnormally localised posterior lateral line ganglion .
an abnormally localised mesonephric duct .
an abnormally localised cellular bone tissue .
an abnormally localised melanoblast .
an abnormally localised mm .constrictores branchiales iv .
an abnormally localised vascular plexus .
an abnormally localised fenestra subocularis .
an abnormally localised endolymphatic duct .
an abnormally localised prechordal plate .
an abnormally localised lateral funiculus .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
an abnormally localised pigment layer .
an abnormally localised claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
an abnormally localised anterior crista .
an abnormally localised lymph vessel .
an abnormally localised thyroid primordium .
an abnormally localised olfactory organ .
an abnormally localised left - ventral blastomere .
an abnormally localised otic region .
an abnormally localised regenerating skeletal element .
an abnormally localised ventral funiculus .
an abnormally localised presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an abnormally localised dorsal telencephalon .
an abnormally localised oculomotor nerve .
an abnormally localised tympanic disk .
an abnormally localised head somite 1 .
an abnormally localised mm .levator arcuum branchialium ii .
an abnormally localised anterior palatine artery .
an abnormally localised m . obliquus inferior .
an abnormally localised endoplasmic reticulum .
an abnormally localised retinal inner plexiform layer .
an abnormally localised hindlimb digit 3 .
an abnormally localised inner fin .
an abnormally localised oviduct .
an abnormally localised taste bud .
an abnormally localised pseudoblastema .
an abnormally localised mitotic spindle .
an abnormally localised prosomere 4 .
an abnormally localised meckel's cartilage .
an abnormally localised blastomere d2 .1 .
an abnormally localised postsacral vertebra .
an abnormally localised dermal system .
an abnormally localised pectoral girdle .
an abnormally localised lung bud .
an abnormally localised rhombomere r8 .
an abnormally localised m . depressor mandibulae .
an abnormally localised pre - enameloid .
an abnormally localised nucleus of the solitary tract .
an abnormally localised torus semicircularis .
an abnormally localised floor plate .
an abnormally localised primary spermatogonium .
an abnormally localised leydig cell .
an abnormally localised joint .
an abnormally localised myotome of tail somite 16 .
an abnormally localised forelimb bud tip .
an abnormally localised mm .levator arcuum branchialium iii .
an abnormally localised hindgut primordium .
an abnormally localised transporting epithelium .
an abnormally localised blastocoel floor .
an abnormally localised rectal diverticulum .
an abnormally localised anterior lymph sac .
an abnormally localised blastomere v1 .
an abnormally localised forelimb digit 5 .
an abnormally localised pectoral appendage .
an abnormally localised posterior cardinal vein .
an abnormally localised cardiac myocyte .
an abnormally localised posterior lateral line placode .
an abnormally localised cementum .
an abnormally localised anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
an abnormally localised medial region .
an abnormally localised monociliated epidermal cell .
an abnormally localised efferent neuron .
an abnormally localised branchial arch 2 .
an abnormally localised regenerating lens .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 3 .
an abnormally localised nucleus .
an abnormally localised hypaxial muscle .
an abnormally localised ischiadic artery .
an abnormally localised migratory neural crest cell .
an abnormally localised vestibule .
an abnormally localised retinal progenitor cell region .
an abnormally localised left channel of ventral aorta .
an abnormally localised xanthophore .
an abnormally localised regenerating eye .
an abnormally localised kinetochore .
an abnormally localised anterior dorsal fin .
an abnormally localised mucociliary epithelium .
an abnormally localised premigratory neural crest cell .
an abnormally localised peripheral retina .
an abnormally localised endocardial cushion .
an abnormally localised subthalamic nucleus .
an abnormally localised pars interna of the stapes .
an abnormally localised postero - dorsal region .
an abnormally localised proctodeum .
an abnormally localised vegetal pole .
an abnormally localised acellular bone tissue .
an abnormally localised enamel .
an abnormally localised astrocyte end - foot .
an abnormally localised lateral abdominal vein .
an abnormally localised suspensorium .
an abnormally localised m . transversus anterior .
an abnormally localised middle ear .
an abnormally localised non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormally localised hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormally localised regenerating tail .
an abnormally localised posterior branchial crest .
an abnormally localised barrier epithelial cell .
an abnormally localised m . cucullaris .
an abnormally localised sesamoid .
an abnormally localised palatoquadrate .
an abnormally localised medial nasal prominence .
an abnormally localised nucleate erythrocyte .
an abnormally localised blastomere v1 .2 .
an abnormally localised vena capitis lateralis .
an abnormally localised eminentia thalami .
an abnormally localised fin crest .
an abnormally localised ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
an abnormally localised blastomere d1 .1 .
an abnormally localised gastrula cell .
an abnormally localised diaphysis .
an abnormally localised cementoblast .
an abnormally localised dorsal fin vasculature .
an abnormally localised neuromast support cell .
an abnormally localised left - right organizer primordium .
an abnormally localised processus posterior hyalis .
an abnormally localised femur rudiment .
an abnormally localised enameloid .
an abnormally localised posterior lateral line .
an abnormally localised third ventricle .
an abnormally localised pretectum .
an abnormally localised b cell .
an abnormally localised spermatocyte .
an abnormally localised wound epidermis inner layer .
an abnormally localised sclerotomal mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised anterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally localised medial amygdala .
an abnormally localised sympathetic chain .
an abnormally localised ethmoid bone .
an abnormally localised tail vein .
an abnormally localised right lymph heart .
an abnormally localised thymus .
an abnormally localised ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
an abnormally localised neurohypophysis .
an abnormally localised internal jugular vein .
an abnormally localised caudal fin skeleton .
an abnormally localised flexural organ .
an abnormally localised vertebral element .
an abnormally localised secretory epithelial cell .
an abnormally localised pronephric nephrostome .
an abnormally localised mesonephric early distal tubule .
an abnormally localised palatoquadrati .
an abnormally localised periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
an abnormally localised mullerian duct .
an abnormally localised oral cavity .
an abnormally localised hepato - pancreatic duct .
an abnormally localised parabrachial area .
an abnormally localised forebrain - midbrain boundary .
an abnormally localised nasociliary artery .
an abnormally localised larval intestinal epithelium .
an abnormally localised retinal blood vessel .
an abnormally localised dorsal pallidum .
an abnormally localised microglial cell .
an abnormally localised hyaloid artery .
an abnormally localised m . petrohyoideus .
an abnormally localised trigeminal ganglion .
an abnormally localised optic field .
an abnormally localised goblet cell .
an abnormally localised profundus ganglion .
an abnormally localised thyroid .
an abnormally localised posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
an abnormally localised stage i oocyte .
an abnormally localised elastic cartilage tissue .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 13 .
an abnormally localised left atrium .
an abnormally localised blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
an abnormally localised anterior tectum .
an abnormally localised archenteron roof midline .
an abnormally localised retinal inner nuclear layer .
an abnormally localised secondary myofiber .
an abnormally localised caudal notochord .
an abnormally localised articular system .
an abnormally localised ventro - lateral region .
an abnormally localised retinal pigmented epithelium .
an abnormally localised external coil of the small intestine .
an abnormally localised enteric neuron .
an abnormally localised spiral septum .
an abnormally localised dorsal endoderm .
an abnormally localised femoral vein .
an abnormally localised dorsal involuting marginal zone .
an abnormally localised vertebral artery .
an abnormally localised coelom .
an abnormally localised proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
an abnormally localised antrum .
an abnormally localised hepatocyte .
an abnormally localised blastocoel roof .
an abnormally localised locus coeruleus .
an abnormally localised animal pole .
an abnormally localised pulmonary artery .
an abnormally localised ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormally localised ventral septum .
an abnormally localised presacral vertebra .
an abnormally localised epiphysis .
an abnormally localised stage iv oocyte .
an abnormally localised ligament .
an abnormally localised vegetal part ,  early involuting .
an abnormally localised lagena .
an abnormally localised lower jaw .
an abnormally localised blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
an abnormally localised iliac process primordium .
an abnormally localised dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally localised chordoneural hinge .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
an abnormally localised parathyroid .
an abnormally localised mm .constrictores branchiales ii .
an abnormally localised multiciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormally localised lateral pallium .
an abnormally localised melanophore .
an abnormally localised amacrine cell .
an abnormally localised archenteron floor .
an abnormally localised involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
an abnormally localised cleavage furrow .
an abnormally localised t cell .
an abnormally localised stomach body .
an abnormally localised amphibian papilla .
an abnormally localised retinal outer plexiform layer .
an abnormally localised centriole .
an abnormally localised ventrolateral neural tube .
an abnormally localised angioblast .
an abnormally localised lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 7 .
an abnormally localised gill primordium .
an abnormally localised neuromast mantle cell .
an abnormally localised olfactory region .
an abnormally localised olfactory epithelial support cell .
an abnormally localised anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally localised vitelline membrane .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae externus .
an abnormally localised somatic stem cell .
an abnormally localised apical epithelial cap .
an abnormally localised hyaloid vein .
an abnormally localised maxillary artery .
an abnormally localised marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
an abnormally localised hypoglossal nerve .
an abnormally localised trabecula cranii .
an abnormally localised fat body .
an abnormally localised dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
an abnormally localised olfactory nerve .
an abnormally localised merkel cell .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
an abnormally localised skin seromucous gland .
an abnormally localised acinar cell .
an abnormally localised perichordal tissue .
an abnormally localised pronephric sinus .
an abnormally localised lung .
an abnormally localised hepatic portal vein .
an abnormally localised external gill .
an abnormally localised myotome of head somite 4 .
an abnormally localised branchial arch 3 .
an abnormally localised duodenum .
an abnormally localised commissural interneuron .
an abnormally localised anterior entopeduncular region .
an abnormally localised blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
an abnormally localised lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
an abnormally localised mesencephalic artery .
an abnormally localised hindlimb region .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
an abnormally localised trachea .
an abnormally localised upper blastopore lip .
an abnormally localised forelimb digit 4 .
an abnormally localised podocyte .
an abnormally localised ventral foregut .
an abnormally localised anterodorsal lateral line placode .
an abnormally localised rhombomere r3 .
an abnormally localised descending interneuron .
an abnormally localised centromere .
an abnormally localised myotome of head somite 2 .
an abnormally localised natural killer cell .
an abnormally localised glomeral nexus .
an abnormally localised ventral tegmentum .
an abnormally localised branchial arch skeleton 4 .
an abnormally localised arterial endothelium .
an abnormally localised coracoid bone .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
an abnormally localised mm .levator arcuum branchialium i .
an abnormally localised vagus nerve .
an abnormally localised dorso - lateral region .
an abnormally localised dorsal column nucleus .
an abnormally localised apical junction complex .
an abnormally localised cell body layer of the optic tectum .
an abnormally localised neuroectoderm outer layer .
an abnormally localised blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
an abnormally localised glomerular mesangial cell .
an abnormally localised axial ossicle .
an abnormally localised somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormally localised morula cell .
an abnormally localised optic disc .
an abnormally localised tooth .
an abnormally localised visceral pouch 4 .
an abnormally localised barbel .
an abnormally localised hypobranchial placode .
an abnormally localised claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
an abnormally localised adult immune system .
an abnormally localised metatarsus .
an abnormally localised visceral pouch 6 .
an abnormally localised trunk region .
an abnormally localised ventrolateral edge of myotome .
an abnormally localised periocular region .
an abnormally localised notoplate .
an abnormally localised ventral pallium .
an abnormally localised mm .constrictores branchiales iii .
an abnormally localised ascending interneuron .
an abnormally localised ventral region .
an abnormally localised manicotto glandulare .
an abnormally localised neural progenitor cell .
an abnormally localised adrenal medulla .
an abnormally localised alpha cell .
an abnormally localised ventral fin vasculature .
an abnormally localised dorsal pallium .
an abnormally localised non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormally localised processus articularis palatoquadrati .
an abnormally localised renal artery .
an abnormally localised presumptive ectoderm .
an abnormally localised forelimb digit 2 .
an abnormally localised head mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised mesonephric sinus .
an abnormally localised stage iii oocyte .
an abnormally localised dorsal fin skeleton .
an abnormally localised posterior cerebral vein .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 5 .
an abnormally localised endothelial cell .
an abnormally localised yolk platelet .
an abnormally localised dorsal habenular nucleus .
an abnormally localised coelomic epithelium .
an abnormally localised perivitelline space .
an abnormally localised ventro - lateral marginal zone .
an abnormally localised peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormally localised ceratobranchial ii .
an abnormally localised dorsolateral ascending neuron .
an abnormally localised germinal vesicle .
an abnormally localised retinal stem cell .
an abnormally localised tongue .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
an abnormally localised stage vi oocyte .
an abnormally localised basal lamina .
an abnormally localised suprachiasmatic nucleus .
an abnormally localised jacobson's vein .
an abnormally localised dorsal crest of the endoderm .
an abnormally localised anterior cardinal vein .
an abnormally localised myocoelic slit .
an abnormally localised outer limiting membrane .
an abnormally localised notochordal epithelium .
an abnormally localised anterior neuroectoderm .
an abnormally localised gamma cell .
an abnormally localised stratum compactum .
an abnormally localised optic chiasm .
an abnormally localised rhombomere r2 .
an abnormally localised sphenoid region .
an abnormally localised mandibular mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised endodermal cell .
an abnormally localised skin mucous gland .
an abnormally localised exocrine pancreas .
an abnormally localised anterior region .
an abnormally localised fundus .
an abnormally localised hemangioblast .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 2 .
an abnormally localised trabecula carnea .
an abnormally localised m . levator mandibulae articularis .
an abnormally localised branchial arch skeleton 3 .
an abnormally localised oval window .
an abnormally localised mitral cell .
an abnormally localised rostral presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 9 .
an abnormally localised hyaloid vascular plexus .
an abnormally localised amputated fin .
an abnormally localised branchial basket .
an abnormally localised ventral blood island border .
an abnormally localised prehallux .
an abnormally localised subinterstitial vein .
an abnormally localised blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
an abnormally localised regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
an abnormally localised ceratobranchial iii .
an abnormally localised left - right organizer .
an abnormally localised mitotic cell .
an abnormally localised periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
an abnormally localised ceratobranchial iv .
an abnormally localised ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
an abnormally localised blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
an abnormally localised seminiferous tubule .
an abnormally localised egg .
an abnormally localised rhombomere r1 .
an abnormally localised retinal layer .
an abnormally localised migratory trunk neural crest cell .
an abnormally localised typhlosole .
an abnormally localised spermatid .
an abnormally localised caudal presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormally localised external jugular vein .
an abnormally localised posterior semicircular canal .
an abnormally localised sub - blastoporal endoderm .
an abnormally localised bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
an abnormally localised peripheral nerve .
an abnormally localised apical region .
an abnormally localised ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an abnormally localised rohon - beard neuron .
an abnormally localised intersomitic neuron .
an abnormally localised posterior commissure .
an abnormally localised ciliary axoneme .
an abnormally localised apical ectodermal ridge .
an abnormally localised apoptotic cell .
an abnormally localised claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
an abnormally localised globe .
an abnormally localised alkali secreting cell .
an abnormally localised lower eyelid .
an abnormally localised m . levator scapulae superior .
an abnormally localised m . rectus cervicus .
an abnormally localised follicle layer .
an abnormally localised antero - ventral region .
an abnormally localised rhombic lip .
an abnormally localised migrating macrophage .
an abnormally localised iris .
an abnormally localised olfactory sensory neuron .
an abnormally localised capillary system of liver .
an abnormally localised arteria iliaca communis .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 6 .
an abnormally localised erythroid cell .
an abnormally localised dorsal foregut .
an abnormally localised retinal rod cell .
an abnormally localised occipital region .
an abnormally localised ampullary nerve .
an abnormally localised bipolar neuron .
an abnormally localised ligament cell .
an abnormally localised auditory hair cell .
an abnormally localised myeloid cell .
an abnormally localised late proximal tubule .
an abnormally localised blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
an abnormally localised mesonephric collecting duct .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
an abnormally localised m . obliquus inferior primordium .
an abnormally localised notochordal sheath .
an abnormally localised m . rectus inferior .
an abnormally localised thoracic region .
an abnormally localised craniofacial region .
an abnormally localised bowman's gland .
an abnormally localised iliac process .
an abnormally localised glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
an abnormally localised posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised larynx .
an abnormally localised subocular cartilage .
an abnormally localised antero - dorsal region .
an abnormally localised glomerular epithelial cell .
an abnormally localised epicardium .
an abnormally localised orbital region .
an abnormally localised myotome of trunk somite 10 .
an abnormally localised ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally localised commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
an abnormally localised nucleus of the diagonal band .
an abnormally localised rhombomere r5 .
an abnormally localised arteria subclavia .
an abnormally localised atrial septum .
an abnormally localised sclera .
an abnormally localised metencephalic vein .
an abnormally localised microtubule .
an abnormally localised mandibular artery .
an abnormally localised lateral vein .
an abnormally localised right - ventral blastomere .
an abnormally localised tarsus .
an abnormally localised digestive enzyme secreting cell .
an abnormally localised pulmonary vein .
an abnormally localised mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormally localised glossopharyngeal nerve .
an abnormally localised ventral marginal zone .
an abnormally localised gastric vein .
an abnormally localised motor axon .
an abnormally localised scapula .
an abnormally localised cardiac progenitor cell .
an abnormally localised forelimb region .
an abnormally localised regenerating hindlimb .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
an abnormally localised jacobson's organ .
an abnormally localised bulbous arteriosis .
an abnormally localised bronchus .
an abnormally localised ring structure .
an abnormally localised pericardial roof .
an abnormally localised nostril .
an abnormally localised esophagus .
an abnormally localised rostral tuberal region .
an abnormally localised stage ii oocyte .
an abnormally localised left ventricle .
an abnormally localised apical mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised carpus .
an abnormally localised myotome of head somite 1 .
an abnormally localised optic choroid vascular plexus .
an abnormally localised claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
an abnormally localised egg jelly .
an abnormally localised medial septum .
an abnormally localised posterior neural fold .
an abnormally localised myotome of tail somite 14 .
an abnormally localised roof plate .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
an abnormally localised lateral nasal prominence .
an abnormally localised facial nerve .
an abnormally localised cardiac valve .
an abnormally localised principal cavity .
an abnormally localised intersomitic tendon .
an abnormally localised granular gland .
an abnormally localised unicellular gland .
an abnormally localised proximal tubule branch .
an abnormally localised occipital lateral line .
an abnormally localised pars nervosa .
an abnormally localised right atrium .
an abnormally localised stirnorgan .
an abnormally localised urostyle .
an abnormally localised dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
an abnormally localised blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
an abnormally localised left omphalomesenteric vein .
an abnormally localised parotic crest .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
an abnormally localised m . orbitohyoideus .
an abnormally localised cardiac ventricle .
an abnormally localised m . rectus posterior .
an abnormally localised mandibular arch skeleton .
an abnormally localised mammilary region .
an abnormally localised adrenal cortex .
an abnormally localised distal mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised intersomitic vein .
an abnormally localised m . rectus anterior .
an abnormally localised anterior thalamic nucleus .
an abnormally localised early proximal tubule .
an abnormally localised cutaneous femoral vein .
an abnormally localised schwann cell .
an abnormally localised ischiadic vein .
an abnormally localised optic tract .
an abnormally localised hatching gland cell .
an abnormally localised anterior lateral line placode .
an abnormally localised anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised m . levator scapulae inferior .
an abnormally localised fenestra basicranialis .
an abnormally localised cardiac jelly .
an abnormally localised regenerating fin .
an abnormally localised stria terminalis .
an abnormally localised growth cone .
an abnormally localised dorsolateral commissural neuron .
an abnormally localised epidermis outer layer .
an abnormally localised myotome of tail somite 18 .
an abnormally localised caudal lateral line .
an abnormally localised simple organ .
an abnormally localised transverse process .
an abnormally localised ventral pallidum .
an abnormally localised dorsal fin margin .
an abnormally localised dorsal tail .
an abnormally localised cloacal sphincter .
an abnormally localised interdigital mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
an abnormally localised trochlear nerve .
an abnormally localised lens transitional zone .
an abnormally localised urethra .
an abnormally localised mitochondrial cloud .
an abnormally localised sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
an abnormally localised blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
an abnormally localised sulcus limitans of neural tube .
an abnormally localised absorptive cell .
an abnormally localised ventral habenular nucleus .
absence of behavior .
absence of anterior - posterior axis .
an abnormally localised anterior - posterior axis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the multicellular anatomical structure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anatomical structure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the multi - tissue structure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiac neural crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the embryonic structure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mandibular crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nucleus reticularis inferior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anatomical system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the humerus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endochondral bone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the parotic crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cartilage element .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cartilaginous condensation .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cell condensation .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the chondrocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skeletal element .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the organism subdivision .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the circulating cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head vasculature .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blood vessel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiovascular system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the splanchnocranium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cranium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the larval immune system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the immune system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anatomical space .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pronephric nephron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cavitated compound organ .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anatomical group .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the preoptic area .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastopore lip .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the limb bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the surface structure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cranial neural crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the primary oogonium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the iris .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardinal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the embryo .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the autopod .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the limb segment .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ionocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the primary germ layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic tectum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stapes .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the auditory ossicle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cranial muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the enteric nervous system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anatomical cluster .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the involuted dorsal mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cell part .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the peripheral nervous system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the infraorbital lateral line primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral line primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . depressor mandibulae .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oval window .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail somite 17 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal pancreatic bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the filter chamber .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural fold .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the notoplate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pelvic girdle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endochondral element .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus posterior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the eye muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adenohypophyseal placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neurogenic placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindgut primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the axial region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anatomical region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the paired dorsal aorta .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the aorta .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mouth primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the solid compound organ .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk vasculature .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the habenula .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the inner limiting membrane .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blood .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the portion of organism substance .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the perichordal tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the connective tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tongue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endocrine cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pronephric kidney .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the embryonic kidney .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the auditory apparatus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior placodal area .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the viscus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the compound organ .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vertebra .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral line placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuromere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the presumptive rhombomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nucleus reticularis superior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ischium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the peripheral ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral pancreatic bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior neural tube .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intersomitic region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cartilage tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skeletal tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left lymph heart .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the perichondrium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the venous endothelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuroectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the delta cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the enteroendocrine cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal fin vasculature .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the uveal tract .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail somite 15 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the electrically active cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stem cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the large intestine .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cranial muscle primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the islets of langerhans .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral aorta .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lung primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the second pancreatic bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the first pancreatic bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the somatic stem cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the roof plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the chondroblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skeletal subdivision .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric nephron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the brain ventricle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the visual system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sensory system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lymphatic system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sub - blastoporal endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the claw .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the acellular anatomical structure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb digit 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the egg .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gamete .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb digit 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the midbrain tegmentum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 13 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the conjunctiva .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the manicotto glandulare .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cement gland primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the motor neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb stylopod .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stylopod .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hypophyseal primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prethalamus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the basal ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sulcus limitans of neural tube .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the wound epidermis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the visceral pouch 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the visceral pouch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric kidney .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adult kidney .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epidermis inner layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the appendicular skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the urinary system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiac valve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal rod cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the eye photoreceptor cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the arteria subclavia .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spiracle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the astrocyte end - foot .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endolymphatic duct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the duct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ligament cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sphenoid region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the arteria iliaca communis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the progenitor cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior tail .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the digit .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adenohypophysis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 9 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 10 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the extracellular matrix .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dermal skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medulla oblongata .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the caudal lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - neural ectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk neural crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vertebral column .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the early embryonic cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vegetal hemisphere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral tegmentum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spinal ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pulmonary vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ethmoid region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hypothalamus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pallidum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the periotic region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . obliquus superior primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial head muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the axial skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotomal cartilage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the apical mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the erythroid cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the foregut endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trabecula .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the femur .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ultimobranchial body .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the extraembryonic structure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endocrine system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cranial placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the internal jugular vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus posterior primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nervous system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the chordal neural plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic fiber layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pulmonary epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pubis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the zygote .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the circumblastoporal collar .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the central canal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skeletal muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lymph vessel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb digit 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endomesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sacral vertebra .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the kidney .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the amygdala .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the striatum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus anterior primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trigeminal placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the aortic arch 6 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the small intestine .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the visceral pouch 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the outer fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mineralized tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mandibular head muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dermatocranium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dermal system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the periosteum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastocoel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal neural layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the limb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pelvic appendage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior neural ridge .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retina .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glomus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the laryngeal muscle primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the paraxial mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lens placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tympanic disk .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the articular system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the organ part .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the radio - ulna .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mandibular arch skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardia .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the zeugopod .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intestinal stem cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adult immune system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the internal carotid artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epithelial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proximal tubule branch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior neural fold .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proximal stomach .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the process .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastema .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bone element .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the processus anterior hyalis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the preplacodal ectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oculomotor motornucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal progenitor cell region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sensorial layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proliferative region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the inner ear .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the distal stomach .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory organ .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proepicardium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gustatory system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 11 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pharyngeal cavity .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral postcardinal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dermomyotome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the multilaminar epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the simple cuboidal epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the unilaminar epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the animal pole .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skeletal system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fin margin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral tail fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the astrocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsomedial edge of myotome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the amputated tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myeloid cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endocardial cushion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ectodermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pineal gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the craniofacial skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal aorta .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the muscular system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 8 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ascending interneuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the interneuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural plate border .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere r1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stage i oocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hypoglossal nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cranial nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hepatic portal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the interdigital mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the subclavian vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the abdominal myoblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myoblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the female genitalia .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the genital system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gall bladder primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the liver diverticulum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the liver and biliary system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior branchial crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stomach body .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail somite 18 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesentery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epibranchial placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the germ plasm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the t cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lymphocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cranial skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nucleus of the diagonal band .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pericyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the male organism .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adult thrombocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the thrombocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mauthner cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the interstitial cell of leydig .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stromal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mineralized bone tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bone tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the animal blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d1 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intestine .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the midgut .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the premigratory neural crest cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left - right organizer primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior neural fold .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the osteoid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the matrix - based tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the diencephalon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cerebral vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pharynx .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pelvic girdle primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vegetal blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fin vasculature .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 11 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb bud tip .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator scapulae superior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the commissural interneuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral pallidum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pallium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail vasculature .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal inner nuclear layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic vesicle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pre - chordal neural plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the involuting marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior foregut .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the exocrine pancreas .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the thalamus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the jacobson's organ .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the visceral pouch 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the secondary heart field .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the telencephalon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindgut .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the zona limitans intrathalamica .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior cerebral vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the animal cap .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the postmigratory neural crest cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb digit 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterodorsal lateral line placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb zeugopod .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adrenal cortex .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vacuolated notochordal tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prosomere 6 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prosomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ureter .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior hypothalamus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the appendage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the esophagus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . transversus anterior primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lens .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior placodal area .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vestibuloauditory system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsolateral ascending neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior amygdala .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the profundal placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral blood island .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ischiadic vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal stem cell region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the thymocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neurocranium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the musculoabdominal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of head somite 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the circulatory system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral pallium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch skeleton 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of head somite 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neurocoel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the involuted ventral mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the podocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v2 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hypophysis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the infundibulum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal ganglion cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the simple squamous epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vascular endothelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oropharynx .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the aortic arch 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the aortic arch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the digit - joint region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the joint region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating eye .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the interrenal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal ganglion cell layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anatomical line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pronephric mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skeletal myocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - ciliated epithelial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sympathetic chain .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorso - lateral region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lung .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cementum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the odontoid tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trabecula cranii .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the eberth - kastschenko layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral abdominal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epidermis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epicardial precursor cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pre - dentine .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dental epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the otic placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 12 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the horizontal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the alpha cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ossicle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v2 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural stem cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the utricle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head somite 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head somite .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior vena cava .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the smooth muscle myocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic choroid vascular plexus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vascular plexus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the respiratory system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of head somite 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior semicircular canal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the semicircular canal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epsilon cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pericardium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the peritoneum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior crista .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sensory epithelial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the acellular bone tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric late proximal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the zygote cortex .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d2 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vena capitis medialis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the abducens nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head somite 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 13 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior foregut .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myocardium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the secondary oogonium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesodermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the testis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gonad .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal crest of the endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesenchymal stem cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the primordial germ cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyaloid blood vessel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior tectum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the palatoquadrate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic disc .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the atrial septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastocoel anlage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyoid head muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adipose tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . intermandibularis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the urogenital system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hematopoietic stem cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the maxillary artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating limb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior branchial crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the postcranial axial skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trachea .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the musculoskeletal system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medial cardinal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the external gill .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pericardial muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intersomitic neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stage iii oocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ampullary nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the monociliated cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ciliated cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the aortic arch 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . interhyoideus primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory pit .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere r5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stage iv oocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the subpallium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the odontogenic papilla .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the right blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oviduct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 9 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the amputated limb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the afferent neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head somite 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vagal epibranchial placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the migratory trunk neural crest cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the migratory neural crest cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral line ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cranial ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d1 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the brachet's cleft .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pectoral girdle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oculomotor nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the simple organ .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the distal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gastric vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the animal cap inner layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator scapulae inferior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fundus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the postero - ventral region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus inferior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsolateral placode region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dermatome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bottle cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal fin skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the median fin skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiac atrium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the secondary spermatogonium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of tail somite 18 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glomeral mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior hypothalamus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the centrosome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the animal hemisphere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tuberal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the outer limiting membrane .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stratum compactum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch skeleton 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail somite 16 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the right ventricle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral ventricle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the appendicular ossicle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oral epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyoid arch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intermediate mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pronephric nephrostome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pronephric duct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the torus semicircularis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral forebrain bundle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cloaca .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the jacobson's vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endocardium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the presumptive axial mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral line system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior neural tube .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fenestra basicranialis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ciliary marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the claw primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the capillary .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the liver .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the omphalomesenteric vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating tail .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intersomitic epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prechordal plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gastrocoel roof plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pericardial roof .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the basal body .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the central nervous system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the morula cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the basal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mineralized cartilage tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the apical region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v1 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of tail somite 14 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glossopharyngeal nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the atrioventricular valve leaflet .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the presacral vertebra .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the liver primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of head somite 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pharyngeal endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . transversus ventralis ii .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left channel of ventral aorta .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral pallium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail tip .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 7 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the middle ear .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the basal forebrain .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the flexural organ .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic chiasm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the atypical epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the transverse process .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb stylopod .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic stalk .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stirnorgan .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nasociliary artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the midgut primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vegetal pole .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral trunk .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the iridophore .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pigment cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the processus articularis palatoquadrati .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head somite 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vertebral element .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 10 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae articularis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vestibular apparatus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the upper blastopore lip .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pigment layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spermatocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the chordal neural plate border .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the perivitelline space .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mineralized extracellular matrix .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal telencephalon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the palatoquadrati .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the interdigital region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . subarcualis rectus i .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hematological system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nucleate erythrocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the urethra .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the migrating macrophage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the macrophage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mucous gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventricular zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the b cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiac jelly .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the melanoblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cell body layer of the optic tectum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the metatarsus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the elastic cartilage tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the antrum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural groove .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the facial nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oocyte cortex .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the angioblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the xanthophore .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric early distal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal pallium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dense regular connective tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tendon fibroblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyoid crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the iliac process primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal tail fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stage ii oocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vitelline vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the paired appendage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hatching gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal blood vessel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the keratin accumulating cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mitral cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric late distal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiac myocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stria terminalis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric early proximal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the peripheral retina .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mandibular mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the atrioventricular canal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the laryngeal muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pharyngeal pouch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fat body .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 7 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the caudal tuberal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v1 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb digit 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dermis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotomal mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the late distal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the migrating neuroblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lens transitional zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proctodeum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating pelvic girdle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vestibulocochlear nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . interhyoideus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail somite 14 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gastrula cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intersomitic tendon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tendon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hatching gland primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adrenal gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hypobranchial placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsolateral neural tube .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb bud tip .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the coelom .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the parathyroid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior ventral blood island .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medial amygdala .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the auditory tube .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . intermandibularis primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of head somite 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pyloric sphincter .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the acid secreting cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the melanotrope .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the aortic arch 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the craniofacial region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tympanic annulus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the otic capsule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventrolateral neural tube .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the osseous labyrinth .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the choana .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the membrane bone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal cone cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral habenular nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the internal coil of the small intestine .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pectoral appendage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk musculature .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left - right organizer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prepollex .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endoplasmic reticulum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oral evagination .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior lateral line placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere r7 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the enameloid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pharyngeal mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral blood island border .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glomerular mesangial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the thymus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . cucullaris .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the serous membrane .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the odontode tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the visceral pouch 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gut epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb zeugopod .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ciliary axoneme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the photoreceptor layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tail vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skin mucous gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skin gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the central amygdala .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lower jaw .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pylorus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hypochord .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the axial mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal pigmented epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the outflow tract .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the thoracic region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ophthalmic vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral fin margin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the elastica externa .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spermatozoon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sacral neural crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stage v oocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastocoel floor .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the amputated fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the apoptotic cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the archenteron roof midline .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal lymph space .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the archenteron floor .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sacculus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the multiciliated cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the germinal granule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the occipital region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the otic vesicle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the right - ventral blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endodermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . obliquus superior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prosomere 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the barrier cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ligament .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the seminiferous tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lagena .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mullerian duct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d2 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the choroid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the wound epidermis inner layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oligodendrocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pars media of the stapes .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ilium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the postsacral vertebra .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating lens .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior neuroectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anteroventral lateral line placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . petrohyoideus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 8 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the central retina .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombic lip .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hatching gland cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastopore .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the median fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the apical ectodermal ridge .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the monociliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the post - anal gut .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the atrioventricular canal endocardium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pharyngeal epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the osteoblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the otic region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating skeletal element .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vertebral centrum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . obliquus inferior primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the basihyal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cloacal sphincter .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the secondary myofiber .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the processus posterior hyalis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neurohypophysis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pars nervosa .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the inner fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the granular gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the merkel cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior cardinal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spiral septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the motor axon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the axon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neurenteric canal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fenestra subocularis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the supraorbital lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nucleus of the solitary tract .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the granule cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rectal diverticulum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cellular bone tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dendrite .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 6 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hypaxial muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral abdominal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuropil of the optic tectum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the postcaval vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the wound epidermis outer layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the beta cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the migrating myoblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tooth .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus superior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the suprachiasmatic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus inferior primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intersomitic vessel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior cardinal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesencephalic artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the carpus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the unicellular gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the chordoneural hinge .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere r6 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hypobranchial head muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . geniohyoideus primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . transversus anterior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fibrocellular pad .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus cervicis primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myelin accumulating cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal fin margin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch skeleton 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endoskeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the accessory nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endocardial tube .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior lateral line placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spermatid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the occipitovertebral artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the caudal fin skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the isthmic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the notochordal epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric collecting duct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the occipital lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior lateral line ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the genital ridge .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the male genitalia .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the muller cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal tegmentum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral amygdala .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the embryonic thrombocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prethalamus basal plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pre - chordal neural plate border .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal funiculus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal outer nuclear layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trunk somite 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sinus venosus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pars distalis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fourth ventricle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dermal bone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior palatine artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyaloid vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rib .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spike .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the aortic arch 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial basket .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sciatic nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuroectoderm outer layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the thyroid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trabecula carnea .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the visceral pouch 6 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the subcommissural organ .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the smooth muscle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cornua trabecula .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral foregut .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ciliary body .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the subintestinal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere r3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the femur rudiment .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trochlear nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the middle cerebral vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior ventral blood island .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the paracrine cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the larval aorta .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pre - enameloid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the superficial layer of neurectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adrenal medulla .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the footplate of the stapes .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the duct of cuvier .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medial ganglionic eminence .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the multiciliated cell precursor .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the central vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bipolar neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior commissure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the supraoptoparaventricular region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the right spleen primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorso - lateral marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prime meridian .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trigeminal ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vestibulocochlear ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the keratinocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ovary .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spinal neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory sensory neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pars externa of the stapes .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vena capitis lateralis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trochlear motornucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left spleen primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral funiculus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic tract .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mandibular artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the thyroid primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the parabrachial area .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left omphalomesenteric vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the middle lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - cililated epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the early distal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the postero - dorsal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hepatic vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastocoel roof .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal involuting marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the distal mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the transporting epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral ganglionic eminence .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bladder .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the musculature of face .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the simple columnar epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vagal neural crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ethmoid bone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the female organism .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the femoral vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spinal nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lung bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glomeral nexus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal progenitor cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the kinetochore .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiac progenitor cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epicardium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vagus nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the right channel of ventral aorta .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the larynx .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cerebellum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventro - lateral region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb digit 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the caudal notochord .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the leydig cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hepato - pancreatic duct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oral cavity .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the caudal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sesamoid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pars interna of the stapes .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oxygen accumulating cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the compound organ component .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cardiac mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb digit 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the animal part ,  late involuting .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the caudal vertebra .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medial nasal prominence .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cervical vertebra .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the branchial arch skeleton 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the infraorbital lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the head endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the animal cap outer layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fasciculated network of fibrils .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the descending interneuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the principal cavity .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the accessory olfactory bulb .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the regenerating fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lens epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the solitary tract .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the follicle layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the right lymph heart .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . geniohyoideus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuromast support cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the coelomic epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the arteria mesenterica posterior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral funiculus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the external jugular vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forelimb digit 2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior dorsal fin .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the arterial endothelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prehallux .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the trigeminal nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior tectum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus abdominis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal pallidum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the iliofibularis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spleen .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the scapula .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pretectum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric sinus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 12 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus superior primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gill primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the apical epithelial cap .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuroendocrine cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the melanophore .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lower blastopore lip .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bowman's gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lower eyelid .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the renal artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the germinal vesicle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bile duct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - involuting marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the forebrain - midbrain boundary .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left - ventral blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere r8 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intersomitic vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the subocular cartilage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fibroblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the centriole .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the upper jaw .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ophthalmic artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the circumpharyngeal ridge .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus cervicus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the endothelial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stratum spongiosum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal foregut .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral fin vasculature .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cutaneous magnus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ileum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vestibule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neural progenitor cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . orbitohyoideus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pre - enamel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bone marrow .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventro - lateral marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vegetal part ,  early involuting .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the planum hypobranchiale .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epidermis outer layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glomerular epithelial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the raphe nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the liver parenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the facial vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medium cavity .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vertebral artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior palatine artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rostral notochord .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mitotic spindle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rathke's pouch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the amacrine cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cornea .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the taste bud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adult intestinal epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mitochondrial cloud .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuromast mantle cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of tail somite 15 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the primary spermatogonium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the infrarostral .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the diaphysis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the follicle cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the eminentia thalami .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the small secretory cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cleavage furrow .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myocoelic slit .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glomerulus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hepatocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the middle lateral line placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the presumptive ectoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the saccular macula .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bronchus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal inner plexiform layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the perichondrial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the interdigital webbing .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . constrictor laryngis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the choroid fissure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the orbital region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral marginal zone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medial region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the schwann cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mucociliary epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the truncus arteriosus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the visceral pouch 1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nucleus accumbens .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intersomitic artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the caudal presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prosomere 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gasserian ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuroectoderm inner layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the urostyle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyaloid artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventrolateral edge of myotome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral nasal prominence .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . obliquus inferior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the bulbous arteriosis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of tail somite 17 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rohon - beard neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pars intermedia .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left - dorsal blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skeletal muscle satellite cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hindlimb digit 4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the planum trabeculare anticum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the larval alimentary system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the left ventricle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the metencephalic vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the peripheral nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lens fiber cell mass .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the biliary tree .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal column nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal trunk .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the antero - ventral region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the suprablastoporal endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rostral presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cerebral artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tarsus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epigastric artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the subthalamic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the centromere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior cerebral vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the caudal artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the external carotid artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral semicircular canal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the optic field .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ischiadic artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the parachordal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stage vi oocyte .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the olfactory epithelial support cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the enamel .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyaloid vascular plexus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior crista .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the filopodium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vegetal cortex .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the right - dorsal blastomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the enteric neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal habenular nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 6 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the absorptive cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lateral crista .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal thalamus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal tail .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal outer plexiform layer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior entopeduncular region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 3 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the auditory hair cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pronephric sinus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lampbrush chromosome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fin crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the profundus ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the natural killer cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the processus lateralis hyalis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the iliac process .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mammilary region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior semicircular canal .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesencephalic vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the efferent neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the acinar cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sclera .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the radial glial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the antero - dorsal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the locus coeruleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the barrier epithelial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere r4 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gamma cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . dilatator laryngis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the alkali secreting cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the gall bladder .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medial pallium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . levator mandibulae externus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the periocular region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retromammillary area .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the metencephalic artery .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the digestive enzyme secreting cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the suspensorium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cutaneous femoral vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the exocrine cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hemangioblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myotome of tail somite 16 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the typhlosole .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the third ventricle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the epiphysis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rostral tuberal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the microglial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m . rectus anterior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the amphibian papilla .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pupil .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the coracoid bone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cementoblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the skin seromucous gland .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the egg jelly .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the facial epibranchial placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the microtubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the external coil of the small intestine .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the joint .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the axial ossicle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior commissure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rectum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the growth cone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal stem cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mucus secreting cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the notochordal sheath .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the secretory epithelial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nucleus reticularis medialis .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the early proximal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mitotic cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medial abdominal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the floor plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the oropharyngeal papilla .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the rhombomere r2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsolateral commissural neuron .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the late proximal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dentine .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the multiciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ring structure .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the aortic arch 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the organ cortex .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the polar body .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the yolk platelet .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the suprarostral plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the colon .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the fibrocartilage .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nostril .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the metacarpus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the medial septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the central nucleus of the thalamus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior lymph sac .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vitelline membrane .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the larval intestinal epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the subinterstitial vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the hyomandibular lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mesonephric duct .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior thalamic nucleus .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the basal lamina .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the wedge region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neutrophil .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the basilar papilla .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the capillary system of liver .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the vegetal endoderm .
an increase in the size of the tissue .
an increase in the size of the multicellular anatomical structure .
an increase in the size of the vegetal yolk mass .
an increase in the size of the cell .
an increase in the size of the anatomical structure .
an increase in the size of the multi - tissue structure .
an increase in the size of the cardiac neural crest .
an increase in the size of the ventral mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the embryonic structure .
an increase in the size of the mandibular crest .
an increase in the size of the nucleus reticularis inferior .
an increase in the size of the neural nucleus .
an increase in the size of the anatomical system .
an increase in the size of the humerus .
an increase in the size of the endochondral bone .
an increase in the size of the parotic crest .
an increase in the size of the cartilage element .
an increase in the size of the olfactory bulb .
an increase in the size of the ganglion .
an increase in the size of the cartilaginous condensation .
an increase in the size of the cell condensation .
an increase in the size of the chondrocyte .
an increase in the size of the skeletal element .
an increase in the size of the organism subdivision .
an increase in the size of the circulating cell .
an increase in the size of the vein .
an increase in the size of the head vasculature .
an increase in the size of the blood vessel .
an increase in the size of the olfactory epithelium .
an increase in the size of the cardiovascular system .
an increase in the size of the splanchnocranium .
an increase in the size of the cranium .
an increase in the size of the larval immune system .
an increase in the size of the immune system .
an increase in the size of the anatomical space .
an increase in the size of the pronephric nephron .
an increase in the size of the non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increase in the size of the non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
an increase in the size of the hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increase in the size of the endoderm .
an increase in the size of the cavitated compound organ .
an increase in the size of the anatomical group .
an increase in the size of the preoptic area .
an increase in the size of the blastopore lip .
an increase in the size of the limb bud .
an increase in the size of the surface structure .
an increase in the size of the cranial neural crest .
an increase in the size of the primary oogonium .
an increase in the size of the iris .
an increase in the size of the cardinal vein .
an increase in the size of the embryo .
an increase in the size of the autopod .
an increase in the size of the limb segment .
an increase in the size of the ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
an increase in the size of the ionocyte .
an increase in the size of the ectoderm .
an increase in the size of the primary germ layer .
an increase in the size of the optic tectum .
an increase in the size of the stapes .
an increase in the size of the auditory ossicle .
an increase in the size of the cranial muscle .
an increase in the size of the neuron .
an increase in the size of the enteric nervous system .
an increase in the size of the neural crest .
an increase in the size of the anatomical cluster .
an increase in the size of the mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the involuted dorsal mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the cell part .
an increase in the size of the peripheral nervous system .
an increase in the size of the infraorbital lateral line primordium .
an increase in the size of the lateral line primordium .
an increase in the size of the m . depressor mandibulae .
an increase in the size of the oval window .
an increase in the size of the tail somite 17 .
an increase in the size of the dorsal pancreatic bud .
an increase in the size of the primordium .
an increase in the size of the filter chamber .
an increase in the size of the neural fold .
an increase in the size of the notoplate .
an increase in the size of the pelvic girdle .
an increase in the size of the endochondral element .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus posterior .
an increase in the size of the eye muscle .
an increase in the size of the adenohypophyseal placode .
an increase in the size of the neurogenic placode .
an increase in the size of the hindgut primordium .
an increase in the size of the axial region .
an increase in the size of the anatomical region .
an increase in the size of the paired dorsal aorta .
an increase in the size of the aorta .
an increase in the size of the mouth primordium .
an increase in the size of the solid compound organ .
an increase in the size of the glial cell .
an increase in the size of the trunk vasculature .
an increase in the size of the habenula .
an increase in the size of the artery .
an increase in the size of the inner limiting membrane .
an increase in the size of the blood .
an increase in the size of the portion of organism substance .
an increase in the size of the perichordal tissue .
an increase in the size of the connective tissue .
an increase in the size of the tongue .
an increase in the size of the endocrine cell .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome .
an increase in the size of the pronephric kidney .
an increase in the size of the embryonic kidney .
an increase in the size of the auditory apparatus .
an increase in the size of the anterior placodal area .
an increase in the size of the viscus .
an increase in the size of the compound organ .
an increase in the size of the tail bud .
an increase in the size of the vertebra .
an increase in the size of the lateral line placode .
an increase in the size of the neural plate .
an increase in the size of the neuromere .
an increase in the size of the presumptive rhombomere .
an increase in the size of the nucleus reticularis superior .
an increase in the size of the ischium .
an increase in the size of the nerve .
an increase in the size of the peripheral ganglion .
an increase in the size of the ventral pancreatic bud .
an increase in the size of the anterior neural tube .
an increase in the size of the anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
an increase in the size of the intersomitic region .
an increase in the size of the cartilage tissue .
an increase in the size of the skeletal tissue .
an increase in the size of the left lymph heart .
an increase in the size of the perichondrium .
an increase in the size of the venous endothelium .
an increase in the size of the neuroectoderm .
an increase in the size of the delta cell .
an increase in the size of the enteroendocrine cell .
an increase in the size of the dorsal fin vasculature .
an increase in the size of the uveal tract .
an increase in the size of the tail somite 15 .
an increase in the size of the electrically active cell .
an increase in the size of the regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
an increase in the size of the regenerating tissue .
an increase in the size of the stem cell .
an increase in the size of the large intestine .
an increase in the size of the cranial muscle primordium .
an increase in the size of the islets of langerhans .
an increase in the size of the ventral aorta .
an increase in the size of the presomitic mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the lung primordium .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the second pancreatic bud .
an increase in the size of the hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
an increase in the size of the first pancreatic bud .
an increase in the size of the somatic stem cell .
an increase in the size of the roof plate .
an increase in the size of the chondroblast .
an increase in the size of the forelimb skeleton .
an increase in the size of the skeletal subdivision .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric nephron .
an increase in the size of the brain ventricle .
an increase in the size of the visual system .
an increase in the size of the sensory system .
an increase in the size of the lymphatic system .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch 3 .
an increase in the size of the sub - blastoporal endoderm .
an increase in the size of the claw .
an increase in the size of the acellular anatomical structure .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb digit 1 .
an increase in the size of the m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
an increase in the size of the egg .
an increase in the size of the gamete .
an increase in the size of the forelimb digit 3 .
an increase in the size of the midbrain tegmentum .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 13 .
an increase in the size of the skin .
an increase in the size of the avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increase in the size of the proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
an increase in the size of the conjunctiva .
an increase in the size of the manicotto glandulare .
an increase in the size of the cement gland primordium .
an increase in the size of the motor neuron .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb stylopod .
an increase in the size of the stylopod .
an increase in the size of the skeleton .
an increase in the size of the hypophyseal primordium .
an increase in the size of the prethalamus .
an increase in the size of the basal ganglion .
an increase in the size of the sulcus limitans of neural tube .
an increase in the size of the wound epidermis .
an increase in the size of the visceral pouch 5 .
an increase in the size of the visceral pouch .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric kidney .
an increase in the size of the adult kidney .
an increase in the size of the epidermis inner layer .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric tubule .
an increase in the size of the appendicular skeleton .
an increase in the size of the urinary system .
an increase in the size of the ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
an increase in the size of the cardiac valve .
an increase in the size of the retinal rod cell .
an increase in the size of the eye photoreceptor cell .
an increase in the size of the arteria subclavia .
an increase in the size of the spiracle .
an increase in the size of the astrocyte end - foot .
an increase in the size of the endolymphatic duct .
an increase in the size of the duct .
an increase in the size of the ligament cell .
an increase in the size of the olfactory region .
an increase in the size of the sphenoid region .
an increase in the size of the arteria iliaca communis .
an increase in the size of the progenitor cell .
an increase in the size of the posterior tail .
an increase in the size of the digit .
an increase in the size of the adenohypophysis .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 9 .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 10 .
an increase in the size of the extracellular matrix .
an increase in the size of the ventral lateral line .
an increase in the size of the lateral line .
an increase in the size of the dermal skeleton .
an increase in the size of the medulla oblongata .
an increase in the size of the caudal lateral line .
an increase in the size of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increase in the size of the non - neural ectoderm .
an increase in the size of the trunk neural crest .
an increase in the size of the tail fin .
an increase in the size of the vertebral column .
an increase in the size of the blastomere .
an increase in the size of the early embryonic cell .
an increase in the size of the vegetal hemisphere .
an increase in the size of the ventral tegmentum .
an increase in the size of the spinal ganglion .
an increase in the size of the pulmonary vein .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
an increase in the size of the dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
an increase in the size of the ethmoid region .
an increase in the size of the hypothalamus .
an increase in the size of the pallidum .
an increase in the size of the periotic region .
an increase in the size of the m . obliquus superior primordium .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb region .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the branchial head muscle .
an increase in the size of the axial skeleton .
an increase in the size of the sclerotomal cartilage .
an increase in the size of the apical mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the erythroid cell .
an increase in the size of the foregut endoderm .
an increase in the size of the trabecula .
an increase in the size of the femur .
an increase in the size of the ultimobranchial body .
an increase in the size of the extraembryonic structure .
an increase in the size of the endocrine system .
an increase in the size of the cranial placode .
an increase in the size of the internal jugular vein .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus posterior primordium .
an increase in the size of the nervous system .
an increase in the size of the chordal neural plate .
an increase in the size of the optic fiber layer .
an increase in the size of the pulmonary epithelium .
an increase in the size of the epithelium .
an increase in the size of the pubis .
an increase in the size of the trunk placode .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
an increase in the size of the zygote .
an increase in the size of the circumblastoporal collar .
an increase in the size of the central canal .
an increase in the size of the skeletal muscle .
an increase in the size of the lymph vessel .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb digit 2 .
an increase in the size of the endomesoderm .
an increase in the size of the sacral vertebra .
an increase in the size of the kidney .
an increase in the size of the amygdala .
an increase in the size of the striatum .
an increase in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus anterior primordium .
an increase in the size of the trigeminal placode .
an increase in the size of the aortic arch 6 .
an increase in the size of the small intestine .
an increase in the size of the sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
an increase in the size of the visceral pouch 4 .
an increase in the size of the outer fin .
an increase in the size of the mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increase in the size of the mineralized tissue .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
an increase in the size of the mandibular head muscle .
an increase in the size of the dermatocranium .
an increase in the size of the dermal system .
an increase in the size of the periosteum .
an increase in the size of the blastocoel .
an increase in the size of the retinal neural layer .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 3 .
an increase in the size of the limb .
an increase in the size of the pelvic appendage .
an increase in the size of the anterior neural ridge .
an increase in the size of the retina .
an increase in the size of the glomus .
an increase in the size of the laryngeal muscle primordium .
an increase in the size of the paraxial mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the lens placode .
an increase in the size of the tympanic disk .
an increase in the size of the articular system .
an increase in the size of the oocyte .
an increase in the size of the organ part .
an increase in the size of the radio - ulna .
an increase in the size of the mandibular arch skeleton .
an increase in the size of the cardia .
an increase in the size of the zeugopod .
an increase in the size of the intestinal stem cell .
an increase in the size of the adult immune system .
an increase in the size of the hindgut endoderm .
an increase in the size of the internal carotid artery .
an increase in the size of the epithelial cell .
an increase in the size of the proximal tubule branch .
an increase in the size of the lateral plate mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the posterior neural fold .
an increase in the size of the proximal stomach .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the process .
an increase in the size of the blastema .
an increase in the size of the bone element .
an increase in the size of the processus anterior hyalis .
an increase in the size of the preplacodal ectoderm .
an increase in the size of the olfactory system .
an increase in the size of the oculomotor motornucleus .
an increase in the size of the retinal progenitor cell region .
an increase in the size of the sensorial layer .
an increase in the size of the proliferative region .
an increase in the size of the inner ear .
an increase in the size of the distal stomach .
an increase in the size of the olfactory organ .
an increase in the size of the proepicardium .
an increase in the size of the pulmonary artery .
an increase in the size of the gustatory system .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 11 .
an increase in the size of the pharyngeal cavity .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the lateral postcardinal vein .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the dermomyotome .
an increase in the size of the multilaminar epithelium .
an increase in the size of the simple cuboidal epithelium .
an increase in the size of the unilaminar epithelium .
an increase in the size of the animal pole .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the skeletal system .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the fin margin .
an increase in the size of the ventral tail fin .
an increase in the size of the astrocyte .
an increase in the size of the dorsomedial edge of myotome .
an increase in the size of the amputated tissue .
an increase in the size of the myeloid cell .
an increase in the size of the endocardial cushion .
an increase in the size of the ectodermal cell .
an increase in the size of the pineal gland .
an increase in the size of the craniofacial skeleton .
an increase in the size of the dorsal aorta .
an increase in the size of the m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
an increase in the size of the muscular system .
an increase in the size of the dorsal fin .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 8 .
an increase in the size of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
an increase in the size of the ascending interneuron .
an increase in the size of the interneuron .
an increase in the size of the neural plate border .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere r1 .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere .
an increase in the size of the stage i oocyte .
an increase in the size of the hypoglossal nerve .
an increase in the size of the cranial nerve .
an increase in the size of the hepatic portal vein .
an increase in the size of the interdigital mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the subclavian vein .
an increase in the size of the abdominal myoblast .
an increase in the size of the myoblast .
an increase in the size of the female genitalia .
an increase in the size of the genital system .
an increase in the size of the gall bladder primordium .
an increase in the size of the liver diverticulum .
an increase in the size of the liver and biliary system .
an increase in the size of the splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the posterior branchial crest .
an increase in the size of the stomach body .
an increase in the size of the tail somite 18 .
an increase in the size of the mesentery .
an increase in the size of the epibranchial placode .
an increase in the size of the germ plasm .
an increase in the size of the t cell .
an increase in the size of the lymphocyte .
an increase in the size of the cranial skeleton .
an increase in the size of the nucleus of the diagonal band .
an increase in the size of the pericyte .
an increase in the size of the male organism .
an increase in the size of the adult thrombocyte .
an increase in the size of the thrombocyte .
an increase in the size of the mauthner cell .
an increase in the size of the interstitial cell of leydig .
an increase in the size of the stromal cell .
an increase in the size of the mineralized bone tissue .
an increase in the size of the bone tissue .
an increase in the size of the animal blastomere .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d1 .2 .
an increase in the size of the intestine .
an increase in the size of the midgut .
an increase in the size of the premigratory neural crest cell .
an increase in the size of the left - right organizer primordium .
an increase in the size of the anterior neural fold .
an increase in the size of the osteoid .
an increase in the size of the matrix - based tissue .
an increase in the size of the diencephalon .
an increase in the size of the cerebral vein .
an increase in the size of the pharynx .
an increase in the size of the pelvic girdle primordium .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
an increase in the size of the vegetal blastomere .
an increase in the size of the fin vasculature .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 11 .
an increase in the size of the forelimb bud tip .
an increase in the size of the m . levator scapulae superior .
an increase in the size of the commissural interneuron .
an increase in the size of the ventral pallidum .
an increase in the size of the pallium .
an increase in the size of the tail vasculature .
an increase in the size of the retinal inner nuclear layer .
an increase in the size of the optic vesicle .
an increase in the size of the pre - chordal neural plate .
an increase in the size of the ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v2 .
an increase in the size of the involuting marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the anterior foregut .
an increase in the size of the exocrine pancreas .
an increase in the size of the thalamus .
an increase in the size of the jacobson's organ .
an increase in the size of the visceral pouch 2 .
an increase in the size of the secondary heart field .
an increase in the size of the telencephalon .
an increase in the size of the hindgut .
an increase in the size of the zona limitans intrathalamica .
an increase in the size of the anterior cerebral vein .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
an increase in the size of the animal cap .
an increase in the size of the postmigratory neural crest cell .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb digit 5 .
an increase in the size of the anterodorsal lateral line placode .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb zeugopod .
an increase in the size of the adrenal cortex .
an increase in the size of the marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the vacuolated notochordal tissue .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb skeleton .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
an increase in the size of the prosomere 6 .
an increase in the size of the prosomere .
an increase in the size of the ureter .
an increase in the size of the anterior hypothalamus .
an increase in the size of the appendage .
an increase in the size of the esophagus .
an increase in the size of the m . transversus anterior primordium .
an increase in the size of the ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increase in the size of the lens .
an increase in the size of the posterior placodal area .
an increase in the size of the vestibuloauditory system .
an increase in the size of the dorsolateral ascending neuron .
an increase in the size of the anterior amygdala .
an increase in the size of the profundal placode .
an increase in the size of the ventral blood island .
an increase in the size of the ischiadic vein .
an increase in the size of the retinal stem cell region .
an increase in the size of the thymocyte .
an increase in the size of the neurocranium .
an increase in the size of the musculoabdominal vein .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
an increase in the size of the myotome of head somite 2 .
an increase in the size of the circulatory system .
an increase in the size of the ventral pallium .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch skeleton 3 .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of head somite 4 .
an increase in the size of the neurocoel .
an increase in the size of the involuted ventral mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the podocyte .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v2 .2 .
an increase in the size of the hypophysis .
an increase in the size of the infundibulum .
an increase in the size of the retinal ganglion cell .
an increase in the size of the simple squamous epithelium .
an increase in the size of the vascular endothelium .
an increase in the size of the oropharynx .
an increase in the size of the aortic arch 2 .
an increase in the size of the aortic arch .
an increase in the size of the digit - joint region .
an increase in the size of the joint region .
an increase in the size of the regenerating eye .
an increase in the size of the interrenal vein .
an increase in the size of the retinal ganglion cell layer .
an increase in the size of the anatomical line .
an increase in the size of the pronephric mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the skeletal myocyte .
an increase in the size of the myocyte .
an increase in the size of the non - ciliated epithelial cell .
an increase in the size of the sympathetic chain .
an increase in the size of the dorso - lateral region .
an increase in the size of the lung .
an increase in the size of the cementum .
an increase in the size of the odontoid tissue .
an increase in the size of the trabecula cranii .
an increase in the size of the eberth - kastschenko layer .
an increase in the size of the ventral abdominal vein .
an increase in the size of the epidermis .
an increase in the size of the epicardial precursor cell .
an increase in the size of the pre - dentine .
an increase in the size of the dental epithelium .
an increase in the size of the otic placode .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 12 .
an increase in the size of the horizontal cell .
an increase in the size of the alpha cell .
an increase in the size of the ossicle .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v2 .1 .
an increase in the size of the neural stem cell .
an increase in the size of the utricle .
an increase in the size of the head somite 2 .
an increase in the size of the head somite .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v1 .
an increase in the size of the posterior vena cava .
an increase in the size of the smooth muscle myocyte .
an increase in the size of the epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the optic choroid vascular plexus .
an increase in the size of the vascular plexus .
an increase in the size of the respiratory system .
an increase in the size of the myotome of head somite 4 .
an increase in the size of the posterior semicircular canal .
an increase in the size of the semicircular canal .
an increase in the size of the epsilon cell .
an increase in the size of the pericardium .
an increase in the size of the peritoneum .
an increase in the size of the posterior crista .
an increase in the size of the sensory epithelial cell .
an increase in the size of the acellular bone tissue .
an increase in the size of the m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric late proximal tubule .
an increase in the size of the zygote cortex .
an increase in the size of the dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d2 .2 .
an increase in the size of the vena capitis medialis .
an increase in the size of the abducens nerve .
an increase in the size of the head somite 4 .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 13 .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch 2 .
an increase in the size of the posterior foregut .
an increase in the size of the myocardium .
an increase in the size of the secondary oogonium .
an increase in the size of the mesodermal cell .
an increase in the size of the testis .
an increase in the size of the gonad .
an increase in the size of the dorsal crest of the endoderm .
an increase in the size of the mesenchymal stem cell .
an increase in the size of the primordial germ cell .
an increase in the size of the hyaloid blood vessel .
an increase in the size of the posterior tectum .
an increase in the size of the palatoquadrate .
an increase in the size of the optic disc .
an increase in the size of the atrial septum .
an increase in the size of the blastocoel anlage .
an increase in the size of the hyoid head muscle .
an increase in the size of the m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
an increase in the size of the adipose tissue .
an increase in the size of the m . intermandibularis .
an increase in the size of the urogenital system .
an increase in the size of the hematopoietic stem cell .
an increase in the size of the maxillary artery .
an increase in the size of the regenerating limb .
an increase in the size of the anterior branchial crest .
an increase in the size of the postcranial axial skeleton .
an increase in the size of the trachea .
an increase in the size of the head region .
an increase in the size of the musculoskeletal system .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d1 .
an increase in the size of the medial cardinal vein .
an increase in the size of the external gill .
an increase in the size of the pericardial muscle .
an increase in the size of the intersomitic neuron .
an increase in the size of the stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
an increase in the size of the stage iii oocyte .
an increase in the size of the ampullary nerve .
an increase in the size of the ciliated epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the monociliated cell .
an increase in the size of the ciliated cell .
an increase in the size of the aortic arch 3 .
an increase in the size of the m . interhyoideus primordium .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d2 .
an increase in the size of the olfactory pit .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere r5 .
an increase in the size of the stage iv oocyte .
an increase in the size of the subpallium .
an increase in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
an increase in the size of the odontogenic papilla .
an increase in the size of the septum .
an increase in the size of the right blastomere .
an increase in the size of the oviduct .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 9 .
an increase in the size of the amputated limb .
an increase in the size of the afferent neuron .
an increase in the size of the head somite 3 .
an increase in the size of the vagal epibranchial placode .
an increase in the size of the migratory trunk neural crest cell .
an increase in the size of the migratory neural crest cell .
an increase in the size of the lateral line ganglion .
an increase in the size of the cranial ganglion .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d1 .1 .
an increase in the size of the brachet's cleft .
an increase in the size of the pectoral girdle .
an increase in the size of the oculomotor nerve .
an increase in the size of the simple organ .
an increase in the size of the distal tubule .
an increase in the size of the gastric vein .
an increase in the size of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an increase in the size of the animal cap inner layer .
an increase in the size of the m . levator scapulae inferior .
an increase in the size of the fundus .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus inferior .
an increase in the size of the dorsolateral placode region .
an increase in the size of the dermatome .
an increase in the size of the bottle cell .
an increase in the size of the dorsal fin skeleton .
an increase in the size of the median fin skeleton .
an increase in the size of the cardiac atrium .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 4 .
an increase in the size of the secondary spermatogonium .
an increase in the size of the myotome of tail somite 18 .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the glomeral mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the posterior hypothalamus .
an increase in the size of the centrosome .
an increase in the size of the retinal layer .
an increase in the size of the animal hemisphere .
an increase in the size of the tuberal region .
an increase in the size of the outer limiting membrane .
an increase in the size of the stratum compactum .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch skeleton 1 .
an increase in the size of the tail somite 16 .
an increase in the size of the right ventricle .
an increase in the size of the lateral ventricle .
an increase in the size of the appendicular ossicle .
an increase in the size of the oral epithelium .
an increase in the size of the hyoid arch .
an increase in the size of the intermediate mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the pronephric nephrostome .
an increase in the size of the pronephric duct .
an increase in the size of the torus semicircularis .
an increase in the size of the braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
an increase in the size of the lateral forebrain bundle .
an increase in the size of the cloaca .
an increase in the size of the jacobson's vein .
an increase in the size of the endocardium .
an increase in the size of the presumptive axial mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the lateral line system .
an increase in the size of the posterior neural tube .
an increase in the size of the fenestra basicranialis .
an increase in the size of the ciliary marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the claw primordium .
an increase in the size of the capillary .
an increase in the size of the liver .
an increase in the size of the omphalomesenteric vein .
an increase in the size of the m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the regenerating tail .
an increase in the size of the intersomitic epithelium .
an increase in the size of the prechordal plate .
an increase in the size of the head mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the gastrocoel roof plate .
an increase in the size of the involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
an increase in the size of the pericardial roof .
an increase in the size of the basal body .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the central nervous system .
an increase in the size of the morula cell .
an increase in the size of the basal region .
an increase in the size of the mineralized cartilage tissue .
an increase in the size of the optic nerve .
an increase in the size of the apical region .
an increase in the size of the branchial crest .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v1 .2 .
an increase in the size of the ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
an increase in the size of the myotome of tail somite 14 .
an increase in the size of the glossopharyngeal nerve .
an increase in the size of the atrioventricular valve leaflet .
an increase in the size of the presacral vertebra .
an increase in the size of the liver primordium .
an increase in the size of the myotome of head somite 1 .
an increase in the size of the pharyngeal endoderm .
an increase in the size of the m . transversus ventralis ii .
an increase in the size of the left channel of ventral aorta .
an increase in the size of the lateral pallium .
an increase in the size of the tail tip .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 7 .
an increase in the size of the middle ear .
an increase in the size of the basal forebrain .
an increase in the size of the flexural organ .
an increase in the size of the optic chiasm .
an increase in the size of the atypical epithelium .
an increase in the size of the transverse process .
an increase in the size of the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the forelimb stylopod .
an increase in the size of the optic stalk .
an increase in the size of the stirnorgan .
an increase in the size of the nasociliary artery .
an increase in the size of the midgut primordium .
an increase in the size of the vegetal pole .
an increase in the size of the lateral vein .
an increase in the size of the iridophore .
an increase in the size of the pigment cell .
an increase in the size of the processus articularis palatoquadrati .
an increase in the size of the olfactory placode .
an increase in the size of the head somite 1 .
an increase in the size of the vertebral element .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 10 .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae articularis .
an increase in the size of the vestibular apparatus .
an increase in the size of the anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increase in the size of the upper blastopore lip .
an increase in the size of the pigment layer .
an increase in the size of the spermatocyte .
an increase in the size of the chordal neural plate border .
an increase in the size of the perivitelline space .
an increase in the size of the mineralized extracellular matrix .
an increase in the size of the dorsal telencephalon .
an increase in the size of the palatoquadrati .
an increase in the size of the interdigital region .
an increase in the size of the m . subarcualis rectus i .
an increase in the size of the hematological system .
an increase in the size of the nucleate erythrocyte .
an increase in the size of the urethra .
an increase in the size of the migrating macrophage .
an increase in the size of the macrophage .
an increase in the size of the mucous gland .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
an increase in the size of the ventricular zone .
an increase in the size of the b cell .
an increase in the size of the cardiac jelly .
an increase in the size of the melanoblast .
an increase in the size of the cell body layer of the optic tectum .
an increase in the size of the metatarsus .
an increase in the size of the elastic cartilage tissue .
an increase in the size of the antrum .
an increase in the size of the neural groove .
an increase in the size of the facial nerve .
an increase in the size of the oocyte cortex .
an increase in the size of the angioblast .
an increase in the size of the xanthophore .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch 1 .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric early distal tubule .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 2 .
an increase in the size of the dorsal pallium .
an increase in the size of the dense regular connective tissue .
an increase in the size of the tendon fibroblast .
an increase in the size of the hyoid crest .
an increase in the size of the iliac process primordium .
an increase in the size of the dorsal tail fin .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
an increase in the size of the granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
an increase in the size of the processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
an increase in the size of the stage ii oocyte .
an increase in the size of the vitelline vein .
an increase in the size of the paired appendage .
an increase in the size of the hatching gland .
an increase in the size of the retinal blood vessel .
an increase in the size of the keratin accumulating cell .
an increase in the size of the mitral cell .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric late distal tubule .
an increase in the size of the cardiac myocyte .
an increase in the size of the stria terminalis .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric early proximal tubule .
an increase in the size of the peripheral retina .
an increase in the size of the mandibular mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the atrioventricular canal .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 1 .
an increase in the size of the laryngeal muscle .
an increase in the size of the m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
an increase in the size of the presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the pharyngeal pouch .
an increase in the size of the fat body .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 7 .
an increase in the size of the caudal tuberal region .
an increase in the size of the cilium .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v1 .1 .
an increase in the size of the posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb digit 3 .
an increase in the size of the dermis .
an increase in the size of the sclerotomal mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the late distal tubule .
an increase in the size of the migrating neuroblast .
an increase in the size of the lens transitional zone .
an increase in the size of the processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
an increase in the size of the proctodeum .
an increase in the size of the regenerating pelvic girdle .
an increase in the size of the vestibulocochlear nerve .
an increase in the size of the m . interhyoideus .
an increase in the size of the tail somite 14 .
an increase in the size of the gastrula cell .
an increase in the size of the intersomitic tendon .
an increase in the size of the tendon .
an increase in the size of the hatching gland primordium .
an increase in the size of the lateral septum .
an increase in the size of the adrenal gland .
an increase in the size of the hypobranchial placode .
an increase in the size of the dorsolateral neural tube .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb bud tip .
an increase in the size of the coelom .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
an increase in the size of the parathyroid .
an increase in the size of the anterior ventral blood island .
an increase in the size of the medial amygdala .
an increase in the size of the marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
an increase in the size of the coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
an increase in the size of the auditory tube .
an increase in the size of the m . intermandibularis primordium .
an increase in the size of the myotome of head somite 3 .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the pyloric sphincter .
an increase in the size of the acid secreting cell .
an increase in the size of the melanotrope .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
an increase in the size of the aortic arch 1 .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 4 .
an increase in the size of the craniofacial region .
an increase in the size of the tympanic annulus .
an increase in the size of the otic capsule .
an increase in the size of the ventrolateral neural tube .
an increase in the size of the osseous labyrinth .
an increase in the size of the choana .
an increase in the size of the membrane bone .
an increase in the size of the retinal cone cell .
an increase in the size of the ventral habenular nucleus .
an increase in the size of the internal coil of the small intestine .
an increase in the size of the pectoral appendage .
an increase in the size of the trunk musculature .
an increase in the size of the left - right organizer .
an increase in the size of the prepollex .
an increase in the size of the endoplasmic reticulum .
an increase in the size of the oral evagination .
an increase in the size of the somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the anterior lateral line placode .
an increase in the size of the nucleus .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere r7 .
an increase in the size of the enameloid .
an increase in the size of the pharyngeal mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
an increase in the size of the ventral blood island border .
an increase in the size of the glomerular mesangial cell .
an increase in the size of the thymus .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
an increase in the size of the m . cucullaris .
an increase in the size of the serous membrane .
an increase in the size of the odontode tissue .
an increase in the size of the visceral pouch 3 .
an increase in the size of the gut epithelium .
an increase in the size of the forelimb zeugopod .
an increase in the size of the ciliary axoneme .
an increase in the size of the photoreceptor layer .
an increase in the size of the tail vein .
an increase in the size of the skin mucous gland .
an increase in the size of the skin gland .
an increase in the size of the central amygdala .
an increase in the size of the lower jaw .
an increase in the size of the pylorus .
an increase in the size of the hypochord .
an increase in the size of the axial mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the retinal pigmented epithelium .
an increase in the size of the outflow tract .
an increase in the size of the thoracic region .
an increase in the size of the ophthalmic vein .
an increase in the size of the ventral fin margin .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 2 .
an increase in the size of the elastica externa .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the spermatozoon .
an increase in the size of the sacral neural crest .
an increase in the size of the stage v oocyte .
an increase in the size of the blastocoel floor .
an increase in the size of the amputated fin .
an increase in the size of the apoptotic cell .
an increase in the size of the archenteron roof midline .
an increase in the size of the dorsal lymph space .
an increase in the size of the archenteron floor .
an increase in the size of the sacculus .
an increase in the size of the multiciliated cell .
an increase in the size of the germinal granule .
an increase in the size of the occipital region .
an increase in the size of the otic vesicle .
an increase in the size of the right - ventral blastomere .
an increase in the size of the endodermal cell .
an increase in the size of the m . obliquus superior .
an increase in the size of the prosomere 5 .
an increase in the size of the barrier cell .
an increase in the size of the ligament .
an increase in the size of the seminiferous tubule .
an increase in the size of the lagena .
an increase in the size of the mullerian duct .
an increase in the size of the left blastomere .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d2 .1 .
an increase in the size of the choroid .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
an increase in the size of the wound epidermis inner layer .
an increase in the size of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
an increase in the size of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
an increase in the size of the posterior region .
an increase in the size of the oligodendrocyte .
an increase in the size of the pars media of the stapes .
an increase in the size of the ilium .
an increase in the size of the postsacral vertebra .
an increase in the size of the regenerating lens .
an increase in the size of the anterior neuroectoderm .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 1 .
an increase in the size of the anteroventral lateral line placode .
an increase in the size of the m . petrohyoideus .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 8 .
an increase in the size of the granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increase in the size of the central retina .
an increase in the size of the rhombic lip .
an increase in the size of the hatching gland cell .
an increase in the size of the blastopore .
an increase in the size of the median fin .
an increase in the size of the apical ectodermal ridge .
an increase in the size of the monociliated epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the post - anal gut .
an increase in the size of the atrioventricular canal endocardium .
an increase in the size of the pharyngeal epithelium .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
an increase in the size of the osteoblast .
an increase in the size of the otic region .
an increase in the size of the regenerating skeletal element .
an increase in the size of the vertebral centrum .
an increase in the size of the presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an increase in the size of the m . obliquus inferior primordium .
an increase in the size of the basihyal .
an increase in the size of the processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
an increase in the size of the cloacal sphincter .
an increase in the size of the secondary myofiber .
an increase in the size of the processus posterior hyalis .
an increase in the size of the neurohypophysis .
an increase in the size of the pars nervosa .
an increase in the size of the inner fin .
an increase in the size of the granular gland .
an increase in the size of the merkel cell .
an increase in the size of the anterior cardinal vein .
an increase in the size of the spiral septum .
an increase in the size of the dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
an increase in the size of the posterior lateral line .
an increase in the size of the trunk lateral line .
an increase in the size of the motor axon .
an increase in the size of the axon .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
an increase in the size of the neurenteric canal .
an increase in the size of the fenestra subocularis .
an increase in the size of the supraorbital lateral line .
an increase in the size of the nucleus of the solitary tract .
an increase in the size of the granule cell .
an increase in the size of the external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increase in the size of the rectal diverticulum .
an increase in the size of the cellular bone tissue .
an increase in the size of the dendrite .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 6 .
an increase in the size of the lateral abdominal vein .
an increase in the size of the neuropil of the optic tectum .
an increase in the size of the postcaval vein .
an increase in the size of the involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
an increase in the size of the wound epidermis outer layer .
an increase in the size of the ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
an increase in the size of the beta cell .
an increase in the size of the migrating myoblast .
an increase in the size of the tooth .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus superior .
an increase in the size of the suprachiasmatic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus inferior primordium .
an increase in the size of the intersomitic vessel .
an increase in the size of the posterior cardinal vein .
an increase in the size of the mesencephalic artery .
an increase in the size of the carpus .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
an increase in the size of the unicellular gland .
an increase in the size of the chordoneural hinge .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere r6 .
an increase in the size of the hypobranchial head muscle .
an increase in the size of the m . geniohyoideus primordium .
an increase in the size of the m . transversus anterior .
an increase in the size of the fibrocellular pad .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus cervicis primordium .
an increase in the size of the myelin accumulating cell .
an increase in the size of the dorsal fin margin .
an increase in the size of the branchial vein .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch skeleton 2 .
an increase in the size of the endoskeleton .
an increase in the size of the accessory nerve .
an increase in the size of the endocardial tube .
an increase in the size of the posterior lateral line placode .
an increase in the size of the spermatid .
an increase in the size of the anterior hindgut endoderm .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
an increase in the size of the occipitovertebral artery .
an increase in the size of the caudal fin skeleton .
an increase in the size of the isthmic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the notochordal epithelium .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric collecting duct .
an increase in the size of the occipital lateral line .
an increase in the size of the posterior lateral line ganglion .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
an increase in the size of the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increase in the size of the genital ridge .
an increase in the size of the male genitalia .
an increase in the size of the muller cell .
an increase in the size of the dorsal tegmentum .
an increase in the size of the lateral amygdala .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
an increase in the size of the embryonic thrombocyte .
an increase in the size of the prethalamus basal plate .
an increase in the size of the pre - chordal neural plate border .
an increase in the size of the dorsal funiculus .
an increase in the size of the retinal outer nuclear layer .
an increase in the size of the trunk somite 5 .
an increase in the size of the sinus venosus .
an increase in the size of the pars distalis .
an increase in the size of the fourth ventricle .
an increase in the size of the dermal bone .
an increase in the size of the posterior palatine artery .
an increase in the size of the hyaloid vein .
an increase in the size of the rib .
an increase in the size of the spike .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch 4 .
an increase in the size of the aortic arch 4 .
an increase in the size of the branchial basket .
an increase in the size of the dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increase in the size of the sciatic nerve .
an increase in the size of the neuroectoderm outer layer .
an increase in the size of the periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
an increase in the size of the thyroid .
an increase in the size of the trabecula carnea .
an increase in the size of the visceral pouch 6 .
an increase in the size of the subcommissural organ .
an increase in the size of the smooth muscle .
an increase in the size of the cornua trabecula .
an increase in the size of the ventral foregut .
an increase in the size of the ciliary body .
an increase in the size of the magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the subintestinal vein .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere r3 .
an increase in the size of the femur rudiment .
an increase in the size of the trochlear nerve .
an increase in the size of the middle cerebral vein .
an increase in the size of the posterior ventral blood island .
an increase in the size of the paracrine cell .
an increase in the size of the larval aorta .
an increase in the size of the pre - enameloid .
an increase in the size of the superficial layer of neurectoderm .
an increase in the size of the ventral region .
an increase in the size of the adrenal medulla .
an increase in the size of the footplate of the stapes .
an increase in the size of the duct of cuvier .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
an increase in the size of the medial ganglionic eminence .
an increase in the size of the multiciliated cell precursor .
an increase in the size of the central vegetal yolk mass .
an increase in the size of the bipolar neuron .
an increase in the size of the posterior commissure .
an increase in the size of the supraoptoparaventricular region .
an increase in the size of the facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
an increase in the size of the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the right spleen primordium .
an increase in the size of the dorso - lateral marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
an increase in the size of the prime meridian .
an increase in the size of the trigeminal ganglion .
an increase in the size of the vestibulocochlear ganglion .
an increase in the size of the keratinocyte .
an increase in the size of the ovary .
an increase in the size of the spinal neuron .
an increase in the size of the olfactory sensory neuron .
an increase in the size of the pars externa of the stapes .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
an increase in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
an increase in the size of the vena capitis lateralis .
an increase in the size of the olfactory nerve .
an increase in the size of the trochlear motornucleus .
an increase in the size of the left spleen primordium .
an increase in the size of the ventral funiculus .
an increase in the size of the optic tract .
an increase in the size of the forelimb region .
an increase in the size of the mandibular artery .
an increase in the size of the thyroid primordium .
an increase in the size of the parabrachial area .
an increase in the size of the left omphalomesenteric vein .
an increase in the size of the middle lateral line .
an increase in the size of the non - cililated epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the early distal tubule .
an increase in the size of the postero - dorsal region .
an increase in the size of the hepatic vein .
an increase in the size of the blastocoel roof .
an increase in the size of the dorsal involuting marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the dorsal lateral line .
an increase in the size of the distal mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the transporting epithelium .
an increase in the size of the lateral ganglionic eminence .
an increase in the size of the bladder .
an increase in the size of the musculature of face .
an increase in the size of the simple columnar epithelium .
an increase in the size of the vagal neural crest .
an increase in the size of the ethmoid bone .
an increase in the size of the female organism .
an increase in the size of the femoral vein .
an increase in the size of the spinal nerve .
an increase in the size of the lung bud .
an increase in the size of the glomeral nexus .
an increase in the size of the retinal progenitor cell .
an increase in the size of the kinetochore .
an increase in the size of the cardiac progenitor cell .
an increase in the size of the epicardium .
an increase in the size of the vagus nerve .
an increase in the size of the right channel of ventral aorta .
an increase in the size of the larynx .
an increase in the size of the cerebellum .
an increase in the size of the ventro - lateral region .
an increase in the size of the forelimb digit 4 .
an increase in the size of the caudal notochord .
an increase in the size of the leydig cell .
an increase in the size of the hepato - pancreatic duct .
an increase in the size of the oral cavity .
an increase in the size of the caudal vein .
an increase in the size of the sesamoid .
an increase in the size of the pars interna of the stapes .
an increase in the size of the oxygen accumulating cell .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
an increase in the size of the compound organ component .
an increase in the size of the cardiac mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the forelimb digit 5 .
an increase in the size of the animal part ,  late involuting .
an increase in the size of the caudal vertebra .
an increase in the size of the medial nasal prominence .
an increase in the size of the cervical vertebra .
an increase in the size of the branchial arch skeleton 4 .
an increase in the size of the infraorbital lateral line .
an increase in the size of the head endoderm .
an increase in the size of the animal cap outer layer .
an increase in the size of the fasciculated network of fibrils .
an increase in the size of the descending interneuron .
an increase in the size of the principal cavity .
an increase in the size of the accessory olfactory bulb .
an increase in the size of the regenerating fin .
an increase in the size of the lens epithelium .
an increase in the size of the solitary tract .
an increase in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
an increase in the size of the follicle layer .
an increase in the size of the right lymph heart .
an increase in the size of the mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increase in the size of the m . geniohyoideus .
an increase in the size of the neuromast support cell .
an increase in the size of the coelomic epithelium .
an increase in the size of the arteria mesenterica posterior .
an increase in the size of the lateral funiculus .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
an increase in the size of the external jugular vein .
an increase in the size of the forelimb digit 2 .
an increase in the size of the anterior dorsal fin .
an increase in the size of the arterial endothelium .
an increase in the size of the prehallux .
an increase in the size of the trigeminal nerve .
an increase in the size of the anterior tectum .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus abdominis .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 5 .
an increase in the size of the dorsal pallidum .
an increase in the size of the iliofibularis .
an increase in the size of the lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
an increase in the size of the spleen .
an increase in the size of the scapula .
an increase in the size of the pretectum .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric sinus .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 12 .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus superior primordium .
an increase in the size of the gill primordium .
an increase in the size of the apical epithelial cap .
an increase in the size of the neuroendocrine cell .
an increase in the size of the melanophore .
an increase in the size of the lower blastopore lip .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
an increase in the size of the bowman's gland .
an increase in the size of the lower eyelid .
an increase in the size of the renal artery .
an increase in the size of the germinal vesicle .
an increase in the size of the bile duct .
an increase in the size of the non - involuting marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the forebrain - midbrain boundary .
an increase in the size of the left - ventral blastomere .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere r8 .
an increase in the size of the intersomitic vein .
an increase in the size of the subocular cartilage .
an increase in the size of the fibroblast .
an increase in the size of the centriole .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
an increase in the size of the upper jaw .
an increase in the size of the ophthalmic artery .
an increase in the size of the circumpharyngeal ridge .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus cervicus .
an increase in the size of the endothelial cell .
an increase in the size of the stratum spongiosum .
an increase in the size of the dorsal foregut .
an increase in the size of the ventral fin vasculature .
an increase in the size of the cutaneous magnus .
an increase in the size of the ileum .
an increase in the size of the non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increase in the size of the vestibule .
an increase in the size of the ventral septum .
an increase in the size of the neural progenitor cell .
an increase in the size of the m . orbitohyoideus .
an increase in the size of the pre - enamel .
an increase in the size of the bone marrow .
an increase in the size of the ventro - lateral marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the vegetal part ,  early involuting .
an increase in the size of the planum hypobranchiale .
an increase in the size of the epidermis outer layer .
an increase in the size of the glomerular epithelial cell .
an increase in the size of the raphe nucleus .
an increase in the size of the liver parenchyme .
an increase in the size of the facial vein .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
an increase in the size of the medium cavity .
an increase in the size of the dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
an increase in the size of the vertebral artery .
an increase in the size of the anterior palatine artery .
an increase in the size of the rostral notochord .
an increase in the size of the mitotic spindle .
an increase in the size of the rathke's pouch .
an increase in the size of the amacrine cell .
an increase in the size of the lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the cornea .
an increase in the size of the taste bud .
an increase in the size of the adult intestinal epithelium .
an increase in the size of the mitochondrial cloud .
an increase in the size of the anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an increase in the size of the neuromast mantle cell .
an increase in the size of the posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increase in the size of the myotome of tail somite 15 .
an increase in the size of the primary spermatogonium .
an increase in the size of the infrarostral .
an increase in the size of the ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
an increase in the size of the diaphysis .
an increase in the size of the follicle cell .
an increase in the size of the eminentia thalami .
an increase in the size of the small secretory cell .
an increase in the size of the cleavage furrow .
an increase in the size of the myocoelic slit .
an increase in the size of the glomerulus .
an increase in the size of the hepatocyte .
an increase in the size of the middle lateral line placode .
an increase in the size of the presumptive ectoderm .
an increase in the size of the saccular macula .
an increase in the size of the bronchus .
an increase in the size of the retinal inner plexiform layer .
an increase in the size of the perichondrial cell .
an increase in the size of the interdigital webbing .
an increase in the size of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increase in the size of the m . constrictor laryngis .
an increase in the size of the choroid fissure .
an increase in the size of the orbital region .
an increase in the size of the ventral marginal zone .
an increase in the size of the medial region .
an increase in the size of the schwann cell .
an increase in the size of the mucociliary epithelium .
an increase in the size of the truncus arteriosus .
an increase in the size of the visceral pouch 1 .
an increase in the size of the nucleus accumbens .
an increase in the size of the intersomitic artery .
an increase in the size of the caudal presomitic mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the prosomere 4 .
an increase in the size of the gasserian ganglion .
an increase in the size of the neuroectoderm inner layer .
an increase in the size of the m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
an increase in the size of the ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
an increase in the size of the urostyle .
an increase in the size of the hyaloid artery .
an increase in the size of the ventrolateral edge of myotome .
an increase in the size of the lateral nasal prominence .
an increase in the size of the periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
an increase in the size of the m . obliquus inferior .
an increase in the size of the bulbous arteriosis .
an increase in the size of the myotome of tail somite 17 .
an increase in the size of the rohon - beard neuron .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
an increase in the size of the pars intermedia .
an increase in the size of the left - dorsal blastomere .
an increase in the size of the skeletal muscle satellite cell .
an increase in the size of the hindlimb digit 4 .
an increase in the size of the planum trabeculare anticum .
an increase in the size of the larval alimentary system .
an increase in the size of the posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the dorsal endoderm .
an increase in the size of the left ventricle .
an increase in the size of the metencephalic vein .
an increase in the size of the peripheral nerve .
an increase in the size of the lens fiber cell mass .
an increase in the size of the biliary tree .
an increase in the size of the dorsal column nucleus .
an increase in the size of the dorsal trunk .
an increase in the size of the suprablastoporal endoderm .
an increase in the size of the rostral presomitic mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the cerebral artery .
an increase in the size of the tarsus .
an increase in the size of the epigastric artery .
an increase in the size of the glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
an increase in the size of the ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
an increase in the size of the subthalamic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the centromere .
an increase in the size of the posterior cerebral vein .
an increase in the size of the caudal artery .
an increase in the size of the external carotid artery .
an increase in the size of the lateral semicircular canal .
an increase in the size of the optic field .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
an increase in the size of the ischiadic artery .
an increase in the size of the parachordal .
an increase in the size of the stage vi oocyte .
an increase in the size of the olfactory epithelial support cell .
an increase in the size of the enamel .
an increase in the size of the hyaloid vascular plexus .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
an increase in the size of the anterior crista .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
an increase in the size of the filopodium .
an increase in the size of the vegetal cortex .
an increase in the size of the right - dorsal blastomere .
an increase in the size of the enteric neuron .
an increase in the size of the dorsal habenular nucleus .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 6 .
an increase in the size of the absorptive cell .
an increase in the size of the lateral crista .
an increase in the size of the posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
an increase in the size of the sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
an increase in the size of the dorsal thalamus .
an increase in the size of the dorsal tail .
an increase in the size of the retinal outer plexiform layer .
an increase in the size of the anterior entopeduncular region .
an increase in the size of the myotome of trunk somite 3 .
an increase in the size of the auditory hair cell .
an increase in the size of the pronephric sinus .
an increase in the size of the lampbrush chromosome .
an increase in the size of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
an increase in the size of the fin crest .
an increase in the size of the profundus ganglion .
an increase in the size of the natural killer cell .
an increase in the size of the processus lateralis hyalis .
an increase in the size of the iliac process .
an increase in the size of the mammilary region .
an increase in the size of the anterior semicircular canal .
an increase in the size of the globe .
an increase in the size of the mesencephalic vein .
an increase in the size of the efferent neuron .
an increase in the size of the acinar cell .
an increase in the size of the sclera .
an increase in the size of the radial glial cell .
an increase in the size of the antero - dorsal region .
an increase in the size of the locus coeruleus .
an increase in the size of the barrier epithelial cell .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere r4 .
an increase in the size of the gamma cell .
an increase in the size of the m . dilatator laryngis .
an increase in the size of the alkali secreting cell .
an increase in the size of the gall bladder .
an increase in the size of the medial pallium .
an increase in the size of the m . levator mandibulae externus .
an increase in the size of the periocular region .
an increase in the size of the retromammillary area .
an increase in the size of the proximal mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the metencephalic artery .
an increase in the size of the digestive enzyme secreting cell .
an increase in the size of the suspensorium .
an increase in the size of the cutaneous femoral vein .
an increase in the size of the exocrine cell .
an increase in the size of the hemangioblast .
an increase in the size of the myotome of tail somite 16 .
an increase in the size of the typhlosole .
an increase in the size of the third ventricle .
an increase in the size of the epiphysis .
an increase in the size of the rostral tuberal region .
an increase in the size of the microglial cell .
an increase in the size of the m . rectus anterior .
an increase in the size of the amphibian papilla .
an increase in the size of the pupil .
an increase in the size of the coracoid bone .
an increase in the size of the cementoblast .
an increase in the size of the skin seromucous gland .
an increase in the size of the egg jelly .
an increase in the size of the facial epibranchial placode .
an increase in the size of the microtubule .
an increase in the size of the external coil of the small intestine .
an increase in the size of the joint .
an increase in the size of the axial ossicle .
an increase in the size of the anterior commissure .
an increase in the size of the rectum .
an increase in the size of the growth cone .
an increase in the size of the retinal stem cell .
an increase in the size of the mucus secreting cell .
an increase in the size of the notochordal sheath .
an increase in the size of the secretory epithelial cell .
an increase in the size of the nucleus reticularis medialis .
an increase in the size of the early proximal tubule .
an increase in the size of the mitotic cell .
an increase in the size of the medial abdominal vein .
an increase in the size of the floor plate .
an increase in the size of the oropharyngeal papilla .
an increase in the size of the rhombomere r2 .
an increase in the size of the blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
an increase in the size of the dorsolateral commissural neuron .
an increase in the size of the dorsal septum .
an increase in the size of the anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an increase in the size of the late proximal tubule .
an increase in the size of the dentine .
an increase in the size of the blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
an increase in the size of the multiciliated epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the ring structure .
an increase in the size of the aortic arch 5 .
an increase in the size of the organ cortex .
an increase in the size of the polar body .
an increase in the size of the yolk platelet .
an increase in the size of the suprarostral plate .
an increase in the size of the colon .
an increase in the size of the fibrocartilage .
an increase in the size of the nostril .
an increase in the size of the metacarpus .
an increase in the size of the medial septum .
an increase in the size of the central nucleus of the thalamus .
an increase in the size of the peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
an increase in the size of the anterior lymph sac .
an increase in the size of the vitelline membrane .
an increase in the size of the larval intestinal epithelium .
an increase in the size of the anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
an increase in the size of the subinterstitial vein .
an increase in the size of the claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
an increase in the size of the hyomandibular lateral line .
an increase in the size of the mesonephric duct .
an increase in the size of the anterior thalamic nucleus .
an increase in the size of the basal lamina .
an increase in the size of the wedge region .
an increase in the size of the dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
an increase in the size of the neutrophil .
an increase in the size of the mm .
an increase in the size of the basilar papilla .
an increase in the size of the capillary system of liver .
an increase in the size of the vegetal endoderm .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the tail .
the presence of a reduced number of somite in the trunk .
the presence of a reduced number of migratory neural crest cell in the trunk .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuroectoderm in the head .
absence of the melanophore in the tail .
absence of the melanophore in the trunk .
an increase in the size of the mesoderm in the trunk .
an increase in the size of the neuroectoderm in the head .
the presence of an increased number of cell .
the presence of an increased number of embryonic thrombocyte .
the presence of an increased number of thrombocyte .
the presence of an increased number of morula cell .
the presence of an increased number of early embryonic cell .
the presence of an increased number of chondrocyte .
the presence of an increased number of neuron .
the presence of an increased number of premigratory neural crest cell .
the presence of an increased number of hematopoietic stem cell .
the presence of an increased number of stem cell .
the presence of an increased number of beta cell .
the presence of an increased number of enteroendocrine cell .
the presence of an increased number of neural progenitor cell .
the presence of an increased number of goblet cell .
the presence of an increased number of epithelial cell .
the presence of an increased number of merkel cell .
the presence of an increased number of endocrine cell .
the presence of an increased number of hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
the presence of an increased number of alpha cell .
the presence of an increased number of pigment cell .
the presence of an increased number of retinal progenitor cell .
the presence of an increased number of secondary oogonium .
the presence of an increased number of germ cell .
the presence of an increased number of glomerular mesangial cell .
the presence of an increased number of pericyte .
the presence of an increased number of ciliated cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d2 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of posterior crista .
the presence of an increased number of sensory epithelial cell .
the presence of an increased number of natural killer cell .
the presence of an increased number of lymphocyte .
the presence of an increased number of oocyte .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v1 .
the presence of an increased number of neuromast mantle cell .
the presence of an increased number of radial glial cell .
the presence of an increased number of glial cell .
the presence of an increased number of secondary spermatogonium .
the presence of an increased number of stage v oocyte .
the presence of an increased number of proepicardium .
the presence of an increased number of thymocyte .
the presence of an increased number of circulating cell .
the presence of an increased number of spermatid .
the presence of an increased number of skeletal muscle satellite cell .
the presence of an increased number of ascending interneuron .
the presence of an increased number of interneuron .
the presence of an increased number of egg .
the presence of an increased number of gamete .
the presence of an increased number of t cell .
the presence of an increased number of neural stem cell .
the presence of an increased number of ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
the presence of an increased number of ionocyte .
the presence of an increased number of horizontal cell .
the presence of an increased number of dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of animal blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d1 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of postmigratory neural crest cell .
the presence of an increased number of vegetal blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of migrating neuroblast .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of mesenchymal stem cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v2 .
the presence of an increased number of granule cell .
the presence of an increased number of nucleate erythrocyte .
the presence of an increased number of acid secreting cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v1 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of dorsolateral ascending neuron .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of stage iii oocyte .
the presence of an increased number of intersomitic neuron .
the presence of an increased number of melanotrope .
the presence of an increased number of digestive enzyme secreting cell .
the presence of an increased number of eye photoreceptor cell .
the presence of an increased number of epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of mitral cell .
the presence of an increased number of auditory hair cell .
the presence of an increased number of epicardial precursor cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v2 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of migratory neural crest cell .
the presence of an increased number of glomerular epithelial cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d2 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of bottle cell .
the presence of an increased number of gastrula cell .
the presence of an increased number of epsilon cell .
the presence of an increased number of myocyte .
the presence of an increased number of primordial germ cell .
the presence of an increased number of xanthophore .
the presence of an increased number of adult thrombocyte .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d2 .
the presence of an increased number of secondary myofiber .
the presence of an increased number of monociliated cell .
the presence of an increased number of keratinocyte .
the presence of an increased number of keratin accumulating cell .
the presence of an increased number of osteoblast .
the presence of an increased number of olfactory epithelial support cell .
the presence of an increased number of spermatocyte .
the presence of an increased number of podocyte .
the presence of an increased number of myoblast .
the presence of an increased number of descending interneuron .
the presence of an increased number of migrating myoblast .
the presence of an increased number of astrocyte .
the presence of an increased number of hepatocyte .
the presence of an increased number of left blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of abdominal myoblast .
the presence of an increased number of myeloid cell .
the presence of an increased number of mucus secreting cell .
the presence of an increased number of right - ventral blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of non - cililated epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of perichondrial cell .
the presence of an increased number of skeletal myocyte .
the presence of an increased number of somatic stem cell .
the presence of an increased number of ectodermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of alkali secreting cell .
the presence of an increased number of tendon fibroblast .
the presence of an increased number of iridophore .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d1 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of primary oogonium .
the presence of an increased number of endothelial cell .
the presence of an increased number of delta cell .
the presence of an increased number of mitotic cell .
the presence of an increased number of oxygen accumulating cell .
the presence of an increased number of muller cell .
the presence of an increased number of intestinal stem cell .
the presence of an increased number of cardiac myocyte .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of schwann cell .
the presence of an increased number of exocrine cell .
the presence of an increased number of neuromast support cell .
the presence of an increased number of multiciliated cell .
the presence of an increased number of cardiac progenitor cell .
the presence of an increased number of motor neuron .
the presence of an increased number of stromal cell .
the presence of an increased number of spinal neuron .
the presence of an increased number of dorsolateral commissural neuron .
the presence of an increased number of right - dorsal blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of fibroblast .
the presence of an increased number of mesodermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v2 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of ciliated non - epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of smooth muscle myocyte .
the presence of an increased number of paracrine cell .
the presence of an increased number of retinal ganglion cell .
the presence of an increased number of leydig cell .
the presence of an increased number of anterior crista .
the presence of an increased number of amacrine cell .
the presence of an increased number of microglial cell .
the presence of an increased number of ligament cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of stage ii oocyte .
the presence of an increased number of interstitial cell of leydig .
the presence of an increased number of erythroid cell .
the presence of an increased number of angioblast .
the presence of an increased number of lateral crista .
the presence of an increased number of neuroendocrine cell .
the presence of an increased number of oligodendrocyte .
the presence of an increased number of gamma cell .
the presence of an increased number of retinal stem cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d1 .
the presence of an increased number of hatching gland cell .
the presence of an increased number of chondroblast .
the presence of an increased number of myelin accumulating cell .
the presence of an increased number of absorptive cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of right blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of barrier cell .
the presence of an increased number of spermatozoon .
the presence of an increased number of multiciliated cell precursor .
the presence of an increased number of bipolar neuron .
the presence of an increased number of macrophage .
the presence of an increased number of acinar cell .
the presence of an increased number of retinal cone cell .
the presence of an increased number of hemangioblast .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of stage i oocyte .
the presence of an increased number of olfactory sensory neuron .
the presence of an increased number of polar body .
the presence of an increased number of retinal rod cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
the presence of an increased number of primary spermatogonium .
the presence of an increased number of efferent neuron .
the presence of an increased number of stage vi oocyte .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v1 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of electrically active cell .
the presence of an increased number of rohon - beard neuron .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of multiciliated epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of afferent neuron .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of mauthner cell .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
the presence of an increased number of small secretory cell .
the presence of an increased number of commissural interneuron .
the presence of an increased number of neutrophil .
the presence of an increased number of b cell .
the presence of an increased number of cementoblast .
the presence of an increased number of left - dorsal blastomere .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of migrating macrophage .
the presence of an increased number of monociliated epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of migratory trunk neural crest cell .
the presence of an increased number of barrier epithelial cell .
the presence of an increased number of endodermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of enteric neuron .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
the presence of an increased number of secretory epithelial cell .
the presence of an increased number of follicle cell .
the presence of an increased number of stage iv oocyte .
the presence of an increased number of left - ventral blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of cell .
the presence of a reduced number of embryonic thrombocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of thrombocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of morula cell .
the presence of a reduced number of early embryonic cell .
the presence of a reduced number of chondrocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of premigratory neural crest cell .
the presence of a reduced number of hematopoietic stem cell .
the presence of a reduced number of stem cell .
the presence of a reduced number of beta cell .
the presence of a reduced number of enteroendocrine cell .
the presence of a reduced number of neural progenitor cell .
the presence of a reduced number of goblet cell .
the presence of a reduced number of epithelial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of merkel cell .
the presence of a reduced number of endocrine cell .
the presence of a reduced number of hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
the presence of a reduced number of alpha cell .
the presence of a reduced number of pigment cell .
the presence of a reduced number of retinal progenitor cell .
the presence of a reduced number of secondary oogonium .
the presence of a reduced number of germ cell .
the presence of a reduced number of glomerular mesangial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of pericyte .
the presence of a reduced number of ciliated cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d2 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of posterior crista .
the presence of a reduced number of sensory epithelial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of natural killer cell .
the presence of a reduced number of lymphocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of oocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v1 .
the presence of a reduced number of neuromast mantle cell .
the presence of a reduced number of radial glial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of glial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of secondary spermatogonium .
the presence of a reduced number of stage v oocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of proepicardium .
the presence of a reduced number of thymocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of circulating cell .
the presence of a reduced number of spermatid .
the presence of a reduced number of skeletal muscle satellite cell .
the presence of a reduced number of ascending interneuron .
the presence of a reduced number of interneuron .
the presence of a reduced number of egg .
the presence of a reduced number of gamete .
the presence of a reduced number of t cell .
the presence of a reduced number of neural stem cell .
the presence of a reduced number of ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
the presence of a reduced number of ionocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of horizontal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of animal blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d1 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of postmigratory neural crest cell .
the presence of a reduced number of vegetal blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of migrating neuroblast .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of mesenchymal stem cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v2 .
the presence of a reduced number of granule cell .
the presence of a reduced number of nucleate erythrocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of acid secreting cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v1 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of dorsolateral ascending neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of stage iii oocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of intersomitic neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of melanotrope .
the presence of a reduced number of digestive enzyme secreting cell .
the presence of a reduced number of eye photoreceptor cell .
the presence of a reduced number of epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of mitral cell .
the presence of a reduced number of auditory hair cell .
the presence of a reduced number of epicardial precursor cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v2 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of migratory neural crest cell .
the presence of a reduced number of glomerular epithelial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d2 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of bottle cell .
the presence of a reduced number of gastrula cell .
the presence of a reduced number of epsilon cell .
the presence of a reduced number of myocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of primordial germ cell .
the presence of a reduced number of xanthophore .
the presence of a reduced number of adult thrombocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d2 .
the presence of a reduced number of non - ciliated epithelial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of secondary myofiber .
the presence of a reduced number of monociliated cell .
the presence of a reduced number of keratinocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of keratin accumulating cell .
the presence of a reduced number of osteoblast .
the presence of a reduced number of olfactory epithelial support cell .
the presence of a reduced number of spermatocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of podocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of myoblast .
the presence of a reduced number of descending interneuron .
the presence of a reduced number of migrating myoblast .
the presence of a reduced number of astrocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of hepatocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of left blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of abdominal myoblast .
the presence of a reduced number of myeloid cell .
the presence of a reduced number of mucus secreting cell .
the presence of a reduced number of right - ventral blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of non - cililated epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of perichondrial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of skeletal myocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of melanoblast .
the presence of a reduced number of somatic stem cell .
the presence of a reduced number of ectodermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of alkali secreting cell .
the presence of a reduced number of tendon fibroblast .
the presence of a reduced number of iridophore .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d1 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of primary oogonium .
the presence of a reduced number of endothelial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of delta cell .
the presence of a reduced number of mitotic cell .
the presence of a reduced number of oxygen accumulating cell .
the presence of a reduced number of muller cell .
the presence of a reduced number of intestinal stem cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cardiac myocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of schwann cell .
the presence of a reduced number of exocrine cell .
the presence of a reduced number of neuromast support cell .
the presence of a reduced number of multiciliated cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cardiac progenitor cell .
the presence of a reduced number of motor neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of stromal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of spinal neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of dorsolateral commissural neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of right - dorsal blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of fibroblast .
the presence of a reduced number of mesodermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v2 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of ciliated non - epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of smooth muscle myocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of paracrine cell .
the presence of a reduced number of leydig cell .
the presence of a reduced number of anterior crista .
the presence of a reduced number of amacrine cell .
the presence of a reduced number of microglial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of ligament cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of stage ii oocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of interstitial cell of leydig .
the presence of a reduced number of erythroid cell .
the presence of a reduced number of angioblast .
the presence of a reduced number of lateral crista .
the presence of a reduced number of neuroendocrine cell .
the presence of a reduced number of oligodendrocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of gamma cell .
the presence of a reduced number of retinal stem cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d1 .
the presence of a reduced number of hatching gland cell .
the presence of a reduced number of chondroblast .
the presence of a reduced number of myelin accumulating cell .
the presence of a reduced number of absorptive cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of right blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of apoptotic cell .
the presence of a reduced number of barrier cell .
the presence of a reduced number of spermatozoon .
the presence of a reduced number of multiciliated cell precursor .
the presence of a reduced number of bipolar neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of macrophage .
the presence of a reduced number of acinar cell .
the presence of a reduced number of retinal cone cell .
the presence of a reduced number of hemangioblast .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of stage i oocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of olfactory sensory neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of polar body .
the presence of a reduced number of retinal rod cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
the presence of a reduced number of primary spermatogonium .
the presence of a reduced number of efferent neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of stage vi oocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v1 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of electrically active cell .
the presence of a reduced number of rohon - beard neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of multiciliated epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of afferent neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of mauthner cell .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
the presence of a reduced number of small secretory cell .
the presence of a reduced number of commissural interneuron .
the presence of a reduced number of neutrophil .
the presence of a reduced number of b cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cementoblast .
the presence of a reduced number of left - dorsal blastomere .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of migrating macrophage .
the presence of a reduced number of monociliated epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of migratory trunk neural crest cell .
the presence of a reduced number of barrier epithelial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of endodermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of enteric neuron .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
the presence of a reduced number of secretory epithelial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of follicle cell .
the presence of a reduced number of stage iv oocyte .
the presence of a reduced number of left - ventral blastomere .
an anomaly in swimming behavior .
an anomaly in vocalization behavior .
an anomaly in courtship behavior .
an anomaly in behavioral response to pain .
an anomaly in olfactory behavior .
an anomaly in mechanosensory behavior .
an anomaly in visual behavior .
an anomaly in optokinetic behavior .
an anomaly in social behavior .
an anomaly in mating behavior .
an anomaly in feeding behavior .
an anomaly in locomotory behavior .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the left - right organizer .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the neural progenitor cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the floor plate .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the brain .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the mucociliary epithelium .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the pronephric kidney .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the pronephric nephrostome .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the proximal tubule .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the olfactory pit .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the auditory hair cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the lateral line .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the alimentary system .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the stomach .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the esophagus .
any abnormal anterior - posterior axis that is curved laterally .
any abnormal anterior - posterior axis that is curved ventrally .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the left - right organizer .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the neural progenitor cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the floor plate .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the brain .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the mucociliary epithelium .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the pronephric kidney .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the pronephric nephrostome .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the proximal tubule .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the olfactory pit .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the auditory hair cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the lateral line .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the alimentary system .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the stomach .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the esophagus .
absence of the cilium in the left - right organizer .
absence of the cilium in the neural progenitor cell .
absence of the cilium in the floor plate .
absence of the cilium in the brain .
absence of the cilium in the mucociliary epithelium .
absence of the cilium in the pronephric kidney .
absence of the cilium in the pronephric nephrostome .
absence of the cilium in the proximal tubule .
absence of the cilium in the olfactory pit .
absence of the cilium in the auditory hair cell .
absence of the cilium in the lateral line .
absence of the cilium in the alimentary system .
absence of the cilium in the stomach .
absence of the cilium in the esophagus .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the left - right organizer .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the neural progenitor cell .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the floor plate .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the brain .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the mucociliary epithelium .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the pronephric kidney .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the pronephric nephrostome .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the proximal tubule .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the olfactory pit .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the auditory hair cell .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the lateral line .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the alimentary system .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the stomach .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the esophagus .
abnormal heart looping .
abnormal heart process .
abnormal heart contraction .
absence of swimming behavior .
absence of vocalization behavior .
absence of courtship behavior .
absence of behavioral response to pain .
absence of olfactory behavior .
absence of mechanosensory behavior .
absence of visual behavior .
absence of optokinetic behavior .
absence of social behavior .
absence of mating behavior .
absence of feeding behavior .
absence of locomotory behavior .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the left - right organizer .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the neural progenitor cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the floor plate .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the brain .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the mucociliary epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the pronephric kidney .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the pronephric nephrostome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the proximal tubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the olfactory pit .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the auditory hair cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the lateral line .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the alimentary system .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the stomach .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the esophagus .
absence of roof of mouth .
absence of cephalic nerve .
absence of atrioventricular valve .
absence of neuron projection .
absence of myofibril .
absence of periocular mesenchyme .
absence of ventral endomesoderm .
absence of ventral endoderm .
absence of dorsal endomesoderm .
absence of sarcomere .
absence of tracheal epithelium .
absence of foregut epithelium .
absence of pia mater .
absence of jaw muscle primordium .
absence of retinal vein .
absence of adherens junction .
absence of actin cytoskeleton .
absence of anterior endomesoderm .
absence of roux spot .
absence of maxillary nerve .
absence of nasociliary nerve .
absence of non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
absence of buccopharyngeal membrane .
absence of pial cell .
absence of prootic bone .
absence of actin filament .
absence of intercanthal region .
absence of frontal nerve .
absence of posterior endoderm .
absence of anterior endoderm .
absence of esophageal epithelium .
absence of stomach epithelium .
absence of posterior endomesoderm .
absence of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
absence of m band .
absence of mandibular nerve .
an abnormally localised roof of mouth .
an abnormally localised cephalic nerve .
an abnormally localised atrioventricular valve .
an abnormally localised neuron projection .
an abnormally localised myofibril .
an abnormally localised periocular mesenchyme .
an abnormally localised ventral endomesoderm .
an abnormally localised ventral endoderm .
an abnormally localised dorsal endomesoderm .
an abnormally localised sarcomere .
an abnormally localised tracheal epithelium .
an abnormally localised foregut epithelium .
an abnormally localised pia mater .
an abnormally localised jaw muscle primordium .
an abnormally localised retinal vein .
an abnormally localised adherens junction .
an abnormally localised actin cytoskeleton .
an abnormally localised anterior endomesoderm .
an abnormally localised roux spot .
an abnormally localised maxillary nerve .
an abnormally localised nasociliary nerve .
an abnormally localised non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
an abnormally localised buccopharyngeal membrane .
an abnormally localised pial cell .
an abnormally localised spindle microtubule .
an abnormally localised prootic bone .
an abnormally localised actin filament .
an abnormally localised intercanthal region .
an abnormally localised frontal nerve .
an abnormally localised posterior endoderm .
an abnormally localised anterior endoderm .
an abnormally localised esophageal epithelium .
an abnormally localised stomach epithelium .
an abnormally localised posterior endomesoderm .
an abnormally localised cortical actin cytoskeleton .
an abnormally localised m band .
an abnormally localised astral microtubule .
an abnormally localised mandibular nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the roof of mouth .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cephalic nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the atrioventricular valve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the neuron projection .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the myofibril .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the periocular mesenchyme .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral endomesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the ventral endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the dorsal endomesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the sarcomere .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tracheal epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the foregut epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pia mater .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the jaw muscle primordium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the retinal vein .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the adherens junction .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the actin cytoskeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior endomesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the roux spot .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the maxillary nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the nasociliary nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the buccopharyngeal membrane .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the pial cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the spindle microtubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the prootic bone .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the actin filament .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the intercanthal region .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the frontal nerve .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior endoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the esophageal epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the stomach epithelium .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior endomesoderm .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cortical actin cytoskeleton .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the m band .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the astral microtubule .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the mandibular nerve .
an increase in the size of the roof of mouth .
an increase in the size of the cephalic nerve .
an increase in the size of the atrioventricular valve .
an increase in the size of the neuron projection .
an increase in the size of the myofibril .
an increase in the size of the periocular mesenchyme .
an increase in the size of the ventral endomesoderm .
an increase in the size of the ventral endoderm .
an increase in the size of the dorsal endomesoderm .
an increase in the size of the sarcomere .
an increase in the size of the tracheal epithelium .
an increase in the size of the foregut epithelium .
an increase in the size of the pia mater .
an increase in the size of the jaw muscle primordium .
an increase in the size of the retinal vein .
an increase in the size of the adherens junction .
an increase in the size of the actin cytoskeleton .
an increase in the size of the anterior endomesoderm .
an increase in the size of the roux spot .
an increase in the size of the maxillary nerve .
an increase in the size of the nasociliary nerve .
an increase in the size of the non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
an increase in the size of the buccopharyngeal membrane .
an increase in the size of the pial cell .
an increase in the size of the spindle microtubule .
an increase in the size of the prootic bone .
an increase in the size of the actin filament .
an increase in the size of the intercanthal region .
an increase in the size of the frontal nerve .
an increase in the size of the posterior endoderm .
an increase in the size of the anterior endoderm .
an increase in the size of the esophageal epithelium .
an increase in the size of the stomach epithelium .
an increase in the size of the posterior endomesoderm .
an increase in the size of the cortical actin cytoskeleton .
an increase in the size of the m band .
an increase in the size of the astral microtubule .
an increase in the size of the mandibular nerve .
the presence of an increased number of pial cell .
the presence of a reduced number of pial cell .
abnormality of roof of mouth .
abnormality of cephalic nerve .
abnormality of atrioventricular valve .
abnormality of neuron projection .
abnormality of myofibril .
abnormality of periocular mesenchyme .
abnormality of ventral endomesoderm .
abnormality of ventral endoderm .
abnormality of dorsal endomesoderm .
abnormality of sarcomere .
abnormality of tracheal epithelium .
abnormality of foregut epithelium .
abnormality of pia mater .
abnormality of jaw muscle primordium .
abnormality of retinal vein .
abnormality of adherens junction .
abnormality of actin cytoskeleton .
abnormality of anterior endomesoderm .
abnormality of roux spot .
abnormality of maxillary nerve .
abnormality of nasociliary nerve .
abnormality of non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
abnormality of buccopharyngeal membrane .
abnormality of pial cell .
abnormality of spindle microtubule .
abnormality of prootic bone .
abnormality of actin filament .
abnormality of intercanthal region .
abnormality of frontal nerve .
abnormality of posterior endoderm .
abnormality of anterior endoderm .
abnormality of esophageal epithelium .
abnormality of stomach epithelium .
abnormality of posterior endomesoderm .
abnormality of cortical actin cytoskeleton .
abnormality of m band .
abnormality of astral microtubule .
abnormality of mandibular nerve .
an abnormality of the cell migration in multiciliated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell migration in multiciliated epidermal cell .
abnormal molecular_function .
abnormal map kinase activity .
abnormal retinol dehydrogenase activity .
abnormal rna polymerase ii activity .
abnormally reduced functionality of map kinase activity .
decreased alpha - tubulin acetylation .
increased map kinase activity .
abnormal apical constriction involved in gastrulation .
abnormal axon extension involved in axon guidance .
abnormal bmp signaling pathway .
abnormal calcium ion transport .
abnormal canonical wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal cell division .
abnormal cell migration .
abnormal chemotaxis .
abnormal ciliary basal body organization .
abnormal cilium assembly .
abnormal cilium disassembly .
abnormal convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
abnormal establishment of apical / basal cell polarity .
abnormal establishment of cell polarity .
abnormal establishment of epithelial cell planar polarity .
abnormal establishment of epithelial cell polarity .
abnormal establishment of tissue polarity .
abnormal fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway .
abnormal histone methylation .
abnormal histone phosphorylation .
abnormal jnk cascade .
abnormal activation of meiosis .
abnormal mitotic spindle assembly .
abnormal nodal signaling pathway .
abnormal determination of left / right symmetry .
abnormal pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
abnormal protein phosphorylation .
abnormal phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain .
abnormal wnt signaling pathway ,  planar cell polarity pathway .
abnormal protein kinase b signaling .
abnormal regulation of cell size .
abnormal regulation of growth rate .
abnormal regulation of protein folding .
abnormal pigment accumulation in tissues .
abnormal sex differentiation .
abnormal somitogenesis .
abnormal spermatogonial cell division .
abnormal spindle assembly .
abnormal thyroid hormone generation .
abnormal type b pancreatic cell differentiation .
abnormal wnt signaling pathway .
abnormal wound healing .
abnormal detection of nodal flow .
abnormal convergent extension .
abnormal axon extension involved in regeneration .
abnormal establishment of planar polarity .
abnormal apical constriction .
abnormal axis elongation .
abnormal neural tube closure .
abnormal convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
abnormal convergent extension involved in notochord morphogenesis .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of animal hemisphere .
abnormally open anterior neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell migration in multiciliated epidermal cell .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of animal hemisphere .
increased alpha - tubulin acetylation .
delayed embryo development .
an abnormal development of the tissue .
an abnormal development of the vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormal development of the multicellular anatomical structure .
an abnormal development of the archenteron .
an abnormal development of the cell .
an abnormal development of the anatomical structure .
an abnormal development of the multi - tissue structure .
an abnormal development of the cardiac neural crest .
an abnormal development of the heart .
an abnormal development of the retinal progenitor cell region .
an abnormal development of the anatomical region .
an abnormal development of the genital ridge .
an abnormal development of the intestine .
an abnormal development of the cavitated compound organ .
an abnormal development of the viscus .
an abnormal development of the dermatocranium .
an abnormal development of the cranium .
an abnormal development of the preplacodal ectoderm .
an abnormal development of the trunk vasculature .
an abnormal development of the anatomical cluster .
an abnormal development of the tympanic disk .
an abnormal development of the cartilage element .
an abnormal development of the right spleen primordium .
an abnormal development of the primordium .
an abnormal development of the islets of langerhans .
an abnormal development of the ventral pancreatic bud .
an abnormal development of the head .
an abnormal development of the organism subdivision .
an abnormal development of the thyroid primordium .
an abnormal development of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal development of the skeletal element .
an abnormal development of the chondrocyte .
an abnormal development of the chondrocranium .
an abnormal development of the trunk .
an abnormal development of the vein .
an abnormal development of the blood vessel .
an abnormal development of the head vasculature .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
an abnormal development of the cranial muscle primordium .
an abnormal development of the vestibuloauditory system .
an abnormal development of the sensory system .
an abnormal development of the artery .
an abnormal development of the olfactory epithelium .
an abnormal development of the anatomical space .
an abnormal development of the myotome .
an abnormal development of the venous endothelium .
an abnormal development of the simple squamous epithelium .
an abnormal development of the endoderm .
an abnormal development of the spinal cord .
an abnormal development of the central vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormal development of the embryonic structure .
an abnormal development of the anatomical system .
an abnormal development of the anatomical group .
an abnormal development of the midbrain .
an abnormal development of the telencephalon .
an abnormal development of the nucleus reticularis inferior .
an abnormal development of the neural nucleus .
an abnormal development of the neural plate .
an abnormal development of the right ventricle .
an abnormal development of the lateral ventricle .
an abnormal development of the adrenal gland .
an abnormal development of the solid compound organ .
an abnormal development of the ceratobranchial i .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric sinus .
an abnormal development of the auditory hair cell .
an abnormal development of the sensory epithelial cell .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric kidney .
an abnormal development of the adult kidney .
an abnormal development of the right atrium .
an abnormal development of the optic tectum .
an abnormal development of the cranial muscle .
an abnormal development of the muscle .
an abnormal development of the neuron .
an abnormal development of the enteric nervous system .
an abnormal development of the neural crest .
an abnormal development of the mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the involuted dorsal mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the olfactory system .
an abnormal development of the cell part .
an abnormal development of the peripheral nervous system .
an abnormal development of the radial glial cell .
an abnormal development of the glial cell .
an abnormal development of the lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the smooth muscle .
an abnormal development of the respiratory system .
an abnormal development of the ventral blood island .
an abnormal development of the forelimb zeugopod .
an abnormal development of the zeugopod .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 4 .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite .
an abnormal development of the endochondral bone .
an abnormal development of the pelvic girdle .
an abnormal development of the endochondral element .
an abnormal development of the ventral habenular nucleus .
an abnormal development of the primary germ layer .
an abnormal development of the optic tract .
an abnormal development of the mouth primordium .
an abnormal development of the surface structure .
an abnormal development of the neural tube .
an abnormal development of the stapes .
an abnormal development of the auditory ossicle .
an abnormal development of the cardinal vein .
an abnormal development of the aorta .
an abnormal development of the paired dorsal aorta .
an abnormal development of the ventrolateral neural tube .
an abnormal development of the embryonic thrombocyte .
an abnormal development of the thrombocyte .
an abnormal development of the pharyngeal region .
an abnormal development of the m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
an abnormal development of the coelom .
an abnormal development of the forelimb skeleton .
an abnormal development of the skeletal subdivision .
an abnormal development of the antero - dorsal region .
an abnormal development of the internal carotid artery .
an abnormal development of the basal forebrain .
an abnormal development of the foregut .
an abnormal development of the embryo .
an abnormal development of the lateral line placode .
an abnormal development of the neurogenic placode .
an abnormal development of the anterior placodal area .
an abnormal development of the dorsal endomesoderm .
an abnormal development of the m . constrictor laryngis .
an abnormal development of the laryngeal muscle .
an abnormal development of the uveal tract .
an abnormal development of the neuromere .
an abnormal development of the presumptive rhombomere .
an abnormal development of the hindbrain .
an abnormal development of the lateral line .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome .
an abnormal development of the ultimobranchial body .
an abnormal development of the hematological system .
an abnormal development of the lymphatic system .
an abnormal development of the nerve .
an abnormal development of the peripheral ganglion .
an abnormal development of the brain .
an abnormal development of the anterior neural tube .
an abnormal development of the tail .
an abnormal development of the endoskeleton .
an abnormal development of the diencephalon .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb bud .
an abnormal development of the gustatory system .
an abnormal development of the eye .
an abnormal development of the commissural interneuron .
an abnormal development of the interneuron .
an abnormal development of the ectoderm .
an abnormal development of the pigment cell .
an abnormal development of the tail somite 15 .
an abnormal development of the thymocyte .
an abnormal development of the lymphocyte .
an abnormal development of the periotic region .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v1 .2 .
an abnormal development of the ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormal development of the zygote .
an abnormal development of the blastopore lip .
an abnormal development of the astral microtubule .
an abnormal development of the spindle microtubule .
an abnormal development of the premigratory neural crest cell .
an abnormal development of the nucleus of the diagonal band .
an abnormal development of the lateral semicircular canal .
an abnormal development of the semicircular canal .
an abnormal development of the myocyte .
an abnormal development of the sacral vertebra .
an abnormal development of the vertebra .
an abnormal development of the limb segment .
an abnormal development of the enteroendocrine cell .
an abnormal development of the endocrine cell .
an abnormal development of the septum .
an abnormal development of the ventral aorta .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch 1 .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch .
an abnormal development of the germ cell .
an abnormal development of the alimentary system .
an abnormal development of the second pancreatic bud .
an abnormal development of the hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
an abnormal development of the first pancreatic bud .
an abnormal development of the stomach .
an abnormal development of the animal hemisphere .
an abnormal development of the pre - chordal neural plate border .
an abnormal development of the caudal vertebra .
an abnormal development of the skin gland .
an abnormal development of the brain ventricle .
an abnormal development of the proximal tubule .
an abnormal development of the compound organ .
an abnormal development of the claw .
an abnormal development of the acellular anatomical structure .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb digit 1 .
an abnormal development of the dorsal endoderm .
an abnormal development of the midbrain tegmentum .
an abnormal development of the spiral septum .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 13 .
an abnormal development of the posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal development of the avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormal development of the non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
an abnormal development of the proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
an abnormal development of the skeletal system .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
an abnormal development of the circulatory system .
an abnormal development of the anterior hypothalamus .
an abnormal development of the gastrocoel roof plate .
an abnormal development of the prethalamus .
an abnormal development of the basal ganglion .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
an abnormal development of the lung bud .
an abnormal development of the sulcus limitans of neural tube .
an abnormal development of the glomerular epithelial cell .
an abnormal development of the epithelial cell .
an abnormal development of the regenerating tissue .
an abnormal development of the wound epidermis .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 2 .
an abnormal development of the left blastomere .
an abnormal development of the blastomere .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric tubule .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric nephron .
an abnormal development of the immune system .
an abnormal development of the urinary system .
an abnormal development of the proximal stomach .
an abnormal development of the gonad .
an abnormal development of the anterior foregut .
an abnormal development of the retinal vein .
an abnormal development of the anatomical line .
an abnormal development of the femur rudiment .
an abnormal development of the central nervous system .
an abnormal development of the nervous system .
an abnormal development of the dorsal aorta .
an abnormal development of the cardiac atrium .
an abnormal development of the ligament .
an abnormal development of the dense regular connective tissue .
an abnormal development of the upper blastopore lip .
an abnormal development of the beta cell .
an abnormal development of the fin vasculature .
an abnormal development of the hindgut .
an abnormal development of the liver and biliary system .
an abnormal development of the perichondrium .
an abnormal development of the connective tissue .
an abnormal development of the progenitor cell .
an abnormal development of the heart primordium .
an abnormal development of the neural stem cell .
an abnormal development of the stem cell .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb digit .
an abnormal development of the digit .
an abnormal development of the morula cell .
an abnormal development of the early embryonic cell .
an abnormal development of the head mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the periocular region .
an abnormal development of the mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 10 .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 9 .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
an abnormal development of the dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormal development of the vitelline membrane .
an abnormal development of the extraembryonic structure .
an abnormal development of the extracellular matrix .
an abnormal development of the m . intermandibularis .
an abnormal development of the mandibular head muscle .
an abnormal development of the tail region .
an abnormal development of the cementum .
an abnormal development of the odontoid tissue .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the medulla oblongata .
an abnormal development of the secondary oogonium .
an abnormal development of the non - neural ectoderm .
an abnormal development of the epithelium .
an abnormal development of the trachea .
an abnormal development of the unicellular gland .
an abnormal development of the fin .
an abnormal development of the tail fin .
an abnormal development of the trunk neural crest .
an abnormal development of the vegetal hemisphere .
an abnormal development of the rostral notochord .
an abnormal development of the auditory apparatus .
an abnormal development of the retinal neural layer .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 10 .
an abnormal development of the trigeminal ganglion .
an abnormal development of the ganglion .
an abnormal development of the lateral amygdala .
an abnormal development of the adenohypophyseal placode .
an abnormal development of the non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
an abnormal development of the pallidum .
an abnormal development of the right - ventral blastomere .
an abnormal development of the right - dorsal blastomere .
an abnormal development of the eye muscle .
an abnormal development of the m . obliquus superior primordium .
an abnormal development of the right channel of ventral aorta .
an abnormal development of the skeletal muscle .
an abnormal development of the sclerotomal cartilage .
an abnormal development of the axial skeleton .
an abnormal development of the visceral pouch .
an abnormal development of the dorsal marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the mandibular arch .
an abnormal development of the pharyngeal arch .
an abnormal development of the notochord .
an abnormal development of the cephalic nerve .
an abnormal development of the trigeminal nerve .
an abnormal development of the acellular bone tissue .
an abnormal development of the mineralized bone tissue .
an abnormal development of the trunk placode .
an abnormal development of the blood .
an abnormal development of the portion of organism substance .
an abnormal development of the liver diverticulum .
an abnormal development of the eye photoreceptor cell .
an abnormal development of the circumblastoporal collar .
an abnormal development of the hand .
an abnormal development of the olfactory organ .
an abnormal development of the aortic arch 6 .
an abnormal development of the aortic arch .
an abnormal development of the striatum .
an abnormal development of the amygdala .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus anterior primordium .
an abnormal development of the vagus nerve .
an abnormal development of the cranial nerve .
an abnormal development of the trigeminal placode .
an abnormal development of the small intestine .
an abnormal development of the anterior cerebral vein .
an abnormal development of the cerebral vein .
an abnormal development of the dorsal thalamus .
an abnormal development of the urogenital system .
an abnormal development of the presumptive ectoderm .
an abnormal development of the absorptive cell .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the endomesoderm .
an abnormal development of the sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v2 .1 .
an abnormal development of the ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormal development of the follicle layer .
an abnormal development of the sclerotomal mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the dorsal fin .
an abnormal development of the large intestine .
an abnormal development of the forelimb bud tip .
an abnormal development of the vena capitis medialis .
an abnormal development of the periosteum .
an abnormal development of the blastema .
an abnormal development of the atrioventricular valve .
an abnormal development of the limb .
an abnormal development of the pelvic appendage .
an abnormal development of the intersomitic region .
an abnormal development of the cardiovascular system .
an abnormal development of the mesenchymal stem cell .
an abnormal development of the oviduct .
an abnormal development of the duct .
an abnormal development of the eminentia thalami .
an abnormal development of the wound epidermis inner layer .
an abnormal development of the organ part .
an abnormal development of the tibia - fibula .
an abnormal development of the radio - ulna .
an abnormal development of the femur .
an abnormal development of the humerus .
an abnormal development of the myotome of tail somite 14 .
an abnormal development of the forelimb .
an abnormal development of the hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal development of the neural plate border .
an abnormal development of the tail somite .
an abnormal development of the somite .
an abnormal development of the glomus .
an abnormal development of the hyaloid blood vessel .
an abnormal development of the foregut endoderm .
an abnormal development of the cranial placode .
an abnormal development of the atrioventricular valve leaflet .
an abnormal development of the ventral endomesoderm .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus posterior primordium .
an abnormal development of the olfactory nerve .
an abnormal development of the process .
an abnormal development of the bone element .
an abnormal development of the middle ear .
an abnormal development of the axon .
an abnormal development of the neuron projection .
an abnormal development of the anterior amygdala .
an abnormal development of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
an abnormal development of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
an abnormal development of the sensorial layer .
an abnormal development of the anterior neural ridge .
an abnormal development of the epidermis inner layer .
an abnormal development of the cranial ganglion .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 12 .
an abnormal development of the periocular mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the proepicardium .
an abnormal development of the oocyte .
an abnormal development of the circulating cell .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb stylopod .
an abnormal development of the stylopod .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
an abnormal development of the endocardial tube .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 11 .
an abnormal development of the endocrine system .
an abnormal development of the testis .
an abnormal development of the olfactory pit .
an abnormal development of the vestibule .
an abnormal development of the fin margin .
an abnormal development of the ventral tail fin .
an abnormal development of the glomeral nexus .
an abnormal development of the urethra .
an abnormal development of the hypophyseal primordium .
an abnormal development of the craniofacial skeleton .
an abnormal development of the ethmoid region .
an abnormal development of the lampbrush chromosome .
an abnormal development of the limb bud .
an abnormal development of the muscular system .
an abnormal development of the antrum .
an abnormal development of the mandibular crest .
an abnormal development of the trabecula cranii .
an abnormal development of the neural groove .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 8 .
an abnormal development of the posterior tectum .
an abnormal development of the cartilage tissue .
an abnormal development of the skeletal tissue .
an abnormal development of the animal cap .
an abnormal development of the principal cavity .
an abnormal development of the pre - enamel .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb .
an abnormal development of the head somite 2 .
an abnormal development of the head somite .
an abnormal development of the regenerating limb .
an abnormal development of the middle cerebral vein .
an abnormal development of the infundibulum .
an abnormal development of the gall bladder primordium .
an abnormal development of the regenerating eye .
an abnormal development of the ampullary nerve .
an abnormal development of the visual system .
an abnormal development of the cardiac myocyte .
an abnormal development of the tail tip .
an abnormal development of the urostyle .
an abnormal development of the posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
an abnormal development of the skin .
an abnormal development of the medial abdominal vein .
an abnormal development of the epibranchial placode .
an abnormal development of the germ plasm .
an abnormal development of the cranial skeleton .
an abnormal development of the cranial neural crest .
an abnormal development of the splanchnocranium .
an abnormal development of the bulbous arteriosis .
an abnormal development of the neural fold .
an abnormal development of the lens .
an abnormal development of the mineralized tissue .
an abnormal development of the bone tissue .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d1 .2 .
an abnormal development of the animal blastomere .
an abnormal development of the prechordal plate .
an abnormal development of the autopod .
an abnormal development of the midgut .
an abnormal development of the photoreceptor layer .
an abnormal development of the tongue .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v2 .2 .
an abnormal development of the granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
an abnormal development of the blastopore .
an abnormal development of the head region .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the branchial head muscle .
an abnormal development of the pelvic girdle primordium .
an abnormal development of the appendicular skeleton .
an abnormal development of the somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the vegetal blastomere .
an abnormal development of the neural progenitor cell .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 13 .
an abnormal development of the eye primordium .
an abnormal development of the pallium .
an abnormal development of the myofibril .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v2 .
an abnormal development of the esophagus .
an abnormal development of the involuting marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the retina .
an abnormal development of the iliofibularis .
an abnormal development of the prootic bone .
an abnormal development of the epaxial muscle .
an abnormal development of the mouth .
an abnormal development of the vertebral column .
an abnormal development of the parachordal .
an abnormal development of the epsilon cell .
an abnormal development of the trunk lateral line .
an abnormal development of the vertebral artery .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the preoptic area .
an abnormal development of the primary spermatogonium .
an abnormal development of the thalamus .
an abnormal development of the claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
an abnormal development of the dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormal development of the actin cytoskeleton .
an abnormal development of the ventral funiculus .
an abnormal development of the foot .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb skeleton .
an abnormal development of the melanophore .
an abnormal development of the m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
an abnormal development of the hyoid head muscle .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
an abnormal development of the mauthner cell .
an abnormal development of the forelimb digit .
an abnormal development of the chordal neural plate .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae articularis .
an abnormal development of the posterior placodal area .
an abnormal development of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormal development of the forebrain .
an abnormal development of the cement gland primordium .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
an abnormal development of the anterior palatine artery .
an abnormal development of the whole organism .
an abnormal development of the male organism .
an abnormal development of the animal cap outer layer .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch skeleton 1 .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch skeleton .
an abnormal development of the left omphalomesenteric vein .
an abnormal development of the omphalomesenteric vein .
an abnormal development of the tail bud .
an abnormal development of the centrosome .
an abnormal development of the branchial vein .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus superior primordium .
an abnormal development of the alpha cell .
an abnormal development of the involuted ventral mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the glossopharyngeal nerve .
an abnormal development of the hypophysis .
an abnormal development of the appendage .
an abnormal development of the unilaminar epithelium .
an abnormal development of the vascular endothelium .
an abnormal development of the cloaca .
an abnormal development of the choroid .
an abnormal development of the gasserian ganglion .
an abnormal development of the postmigratory neural crest cell .
an abnormal development of the dorsal crest of the endoderm .
an abnormal development of the tail vasculature .
an abnormal development of the interrenal vein .
an abnormal development of the regenerating pelvic girdle .
an abnormal development of the ventral pallidum .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch skeleton 3 .
an abnormal development of the female genitalia .
an abnormal development of the genital system .
an abnormal development of the chondroblast .
an abnormal development of the atrial septum .
an abnormal development of the egg .
an abnormal development of the gamete .
an abnormal development of the myotome of head somite 4 .
an abnormal development of the visceral pouch 6 .
an abnormal development of the cerebellum .
an abnormal development of the intersomitic neuron .
an abnormal development of the neuroectoderm .
an abnormal development of the lateral crista .
an abnormal development of the pericardial roof .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 3 .
an abnormal development of the late distal tubule .
an abnormal development of the lagena .
an abnormal development of the lateral postcardinal vein .
an abnormal development of the epidermis .
an abnormal development of the cellular bone tissue .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
an abnormal development of the claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
an abnormal development of the epicardial precursor cell .
an abnormal development of the pre - dentine .
an abnormal development of the visceral pouch 2 .
an abnormal development of the pronephric kidney .
an abnormal development of the embryonic kidney .
an abnormal development of the head somite 4 .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric duct .
an abnormal development of the occipitovertebral artery .
an abnormal development of the jacobson's vein .
an abnormal development of the xanthophore .
an abnormal development of the dorsomedial edge of myotome .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d2 .
an abnormal development of the visceral pouch 5 .
an abnormal development of the amputated fin .
an abnormal development of the amputated tissue .
an abnormal development of the splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the migratory trunk neural crest cell .
an abnormal development of the migratory neural crest cell .
an abnormal development of the cilium .
an abnormal development of the granular gland .
an abnormal development of the elastica externa .
an abnormal development of the ossicle .
an abnormal development of the epiphysis .
an abnormal development of the lower jaw .
an abnormal development of the inner ear .
an abnormal development of the dorsal tail .
an abnormal development of the suprachiasmatic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the cardiac mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the larval immune system .
an abnormal development of the pancreas .
an abnormal development of the lung primordium .
an abnormal development of the tail somite 18 .
an abnormal development of the postcranial axial skeleton .
an abnormal development of the anterior thalamic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
an abnormal development of the trabecula carnea .
an abnormal development of the trabecula .
an abnormal development of the anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
an abnormal development of the dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d2 .2 .
an abnormal development of the m . transversus anterior primordium .
an abnormal development of the amputated limb .
an abnormal development of the capillary system of liver .
an abnormal development of the capillary .
an abnormal development of the skeletal myocyte .
an abnormal development of the sesamoid .
an abnormal development of the myocardium .
an abnormal development of the ventral mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the myeloid cell .
an abnormal development of the primordial germ cell .
an abnormal development of the secretory epithelial cell .
an abnormal development of the optic vesicle .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch 2 .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere r4 .
an abnormal development of the axial ossicle .
an abnormal development of the dorsolateral ascending neuron .
an abnormal development of the m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
an abnormal development of the olfactory placode .
an abnormal development of the adipose tissue .
an abnormal development of the ventral lateral line .
an abnormal development of the occipital lateral line .
an abnormal development of the dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
an abnormal development of the dorsal tegmentum .
an abnormal development of the lateral line primordium .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb digit 4 .
an abnormal development of the multilaminar epithelium .
an abnormal development of the melanotrope .
an abnormal development of the skin mucous gland .
an abnormal development of the mucous gland .
an abnormal development of the spleen .
an abnormal development of the dermomyotome .
an abnormal development of the cleavage furrow .
an abnormal development of the axial mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the ionocyte .
an abnormal development of the non - ciliated epithelial cell .
an abnormal development of the third ventricle .
an abnormal development of the retromammillary area .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 7 .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb digit 2 .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the optic field .
an abnormal development of the presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an abnormal development of the arteria iliaca communis .
an abnormal development of the cutaneous magnus .
an abnormal development of the medial cardinal vein .
an abnormal development of the pre - chordal neural plate .
an abnormal development of the trunk region .
an abnormal development of the ciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal development of the monociliated cell .
an abnormal development of the epidermal cell .
an abnormal development of the ciliated cell .
an abnormal development of the aortic arch 3 .
an abnormal development of the odontode tissue .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
an abnormal development of the hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormal development of the lens epithelium .
an abnormal development of the retinal rod cell .
an abnormal development of the osseous labyrinth .
an abnormal development of the coelomic epithelium .
an abnormal development of the oval window .
an abnormal development of the subpallium .
an abnormal development of the odontogenic papilla .
an abnormal development of the cell condensation .
an abnormal development of the maxillary artery .
an abnormal development of the parotic crest .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb digit 5 .
an abnormal development of the natural killer cell .
an abnormal development of the t cell .
an abnormal development of the stirnorgan .
an abnormal development of the anterior region .
an abnormal development of the anterior ventral blood island .
an abnormal development of the prosomere .
an abnormal development of the otic placode .
an abnormal development of the basal body .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
an abnormal development of the otic vesicle .
an abnormal development of the head somite 3 .
an abnormal development of the skeleton .
an abnormal development of the iridophore .
an abnormal development of the cement gland .
an abnormal development of the m . obliquus superior .
an abnormal development of the primary oogonium .
an abnormal development of the lateral line ganglion .
an abnormal development of the regenerating lens .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d1 .1 .
an abnormal development of the osteoid .
an abnormal development of the matrix - based tissue .
an abnormal development of the musculoskeletal system .
an abnormal development of the anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal development of the ooplasm .
an abnormal development of the monociliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal development of the barbel .
an abnormal development of the mineralized extracellular matrix .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch 4 .
an abnormal development of the pupil .
an abnormal development of the vena capitis lateralis .
an abnormal development of the m . intermandibularis primordium .
an abnormal development of the distal tubule .
an abnormal development of the lower blastopore lip .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
an abnormal development of the ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
an abnormal development of the adult thrombocyte .
an abnormal development of the supraoptoparaventricular region .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus cervicus .
an abnormal development of the hypobranchial head muscle .
an abnormal development of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an abnormal development of the medial ganglionic eminence .
an abnormal development of the craniofacial region .
an abnormal development of the spike .
an abnormal development of the caudal fin skeleton .
an abnormal development of the median fin skeleton .
an abnormal development of the infraorbital lateral line primordium .
an abnormal development of the myoblast .
an abnormal development of the trunk musculature .
an abnormal development of the diaphysis .
an abnormal development of the prime meridian .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb bud tip .
an abnormal development of the pronephric tubule .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the dorsolateral placode region .
an abnormal development of the dorsal telencephalon .
an abnormal development of the bottle cell .
an abnormal development of the involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
an abnormal development of the m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
an abnormal development of the visceral pouch 1 .
an abnormal development of the paraxial mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
an abnormal development of the vacuolated notochordal tissue .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v1 .
an abnormal development of the accessory nerve .
an abnormal development of the hyoid arch .
an abnormal development of the posterior cardinal vein .
an abnormal development of the ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 5 .
an abnormal development of the pronephric duct .
an abnormal development of the intermediate mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal development of the basihyal .
an abnormal development of the dorsal funiculus .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d1 .
an abnormal development of the presumptive axial mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the head somite 1 .
an abnormal development of the posterior neural tube .
an abnormal development of the ring structure .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus inferior primordium .
an abnormal development of the parabrachial area .
an abnormal development of the sacculus .
an abnormal development of the liver .
an abnormal development of the mandibular mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the apoptotic cell .
an abnormal development of the tail somite 16 .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v1 .1 .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
an abnormal development of the head mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the left - right organizer .
an abnormal development of the motor neuron .
an abnormal development of the mesencephalic vein .
an abnormal development of the larval aorta .
an abnormal development of the hatching gland primordium .
an abnormal development of the marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the m . cucullaris .
an abnormal development of the pharyngeal endoderm .
an abnormal development of the ventral pallium .
an abnormal development of the vestibulocochlear nerve .
an abnormal development of the regenerating forelimb .
an abnormal development of the apical epithelial cap .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
an abnormal development of the dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 9 .
an abnormal development of the hyaloid vascular plexus .
an abnormal development of the hepato - pancreatic duct .
an abnormal development of the jaw muscle primordium .
an abnormal development of the nucleus accumbens .
an abnormal development of the left lymph heart .
an abnormal development of the pars distalis .
an abnormal development of the spinal ganglion .
an abnormal development of the afferent neuron .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the nucleus of the solitary tract .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the amacrine cell .
an abnormal development of the m . orbitohyoideus .
an abnormal development of the prosomere 6 .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch skeleton 2 .
an abnormal development of the sarcomere .
an abnormal development of the midgut primordium .
an abnormal development of the serous membrane .
an abnormal development of the femoral vein .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
an abnormal development of the ciliary marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the proliferative region .
an abnormal development of the dermis .
an abnormal development of the choana .
an abnormal development of the sacral neural crest .
an abnormal development of the tendon fibroblast .
an abnormal development of the fibroblast .
an abnormal development of the duodenum .
an abnormal development of the motor axon .
an abnormal development of the cell body layer of the optic tectum .
an abnormal development of the pigment layer .
an abnormal development of the chordal neural plate border .
an abnormal development of the gamma cell .
an abnormal development of the male genitalia .
an abnormal development of the pial cell .
an abnormal development of the ventral septum .
an abnormal development of the seminiferous tubule .
an abnormal development of the interdigital region .
an abnormal development of the central endoderm .
an abnormal development of the mammilary region .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 1 .
an abnormal development of the aortic arch 2 .
an abnormal development of the dorsal pancreatic bud .
an abnormal development of the forelimb stylopod .
an abnormal development of the filopodium .
an abnormal development of the dorsal - ventral axis .
an abnormal development of the anatomical axis .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
an abnormal development of the notochordal sheath .
an abnormal development of the pretectum .
an abnormal development of the forelimb bud .
an abnormal development of the ethmoid bone .
an abnormal development of the mitral cell .
an abnormal development of the retinal stem cell region .
an abnormal development of the nasociliary nerve .
an abnormal development of the typhlosole .
an abnormal development of the median fin .
an abnormal development of the interdigital mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the exocrine pancreas .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
an abnormal development of the dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
an abnormal development of the lymph vessel .
an abnormal development of the hyoid crest .
an abnormal development of the oral evagination .
an abnormal development of the dorsal tail fin .
an abnormal development of the hatching gland .
an abnormal development of the retinal blood vessel .
an abnormal development of the oculomotor motornucleus .
an abnormal development of the ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
an abnormal development of the mitotic cell .
an abnormal development of the gill primordium .
an abnormal development of the pharyngeal cavity .
an abnormal development of the external gill .
an abnormal development of the keratin accumulating cell .
an abnormal development of the kidney .
an abnormal development of the ectodermal cell .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
an abnormal development of the retinal ganglion cell layer .
an abnormal development of the pronephric nephron .
an abnormal development of the stratum compactum .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
an abnormal development of the animal cap inner layer .
an abnormal development of the dermal system .
an abnormal development of the articular system .
an abnormal development of the taste bud .
an abnormal development of the mesodermal cell .
an abnormal development of the habenula .
an abnormal development of the pectoral appendage .
an abnormal development of the paired appendage .
an abnormal development of the m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
an abnormal development of the medial pallium .
an abnormal development of the hematopoietic stem cell .
an abnormal development of the oral epithelium .
an abnormal development of the microtubule .
an abnormal development of the olfactory sensory neuron .
an abnormal development of the anterior neural fold .
an abnormal development of the cerebral artery .
an abnormal development of the intercanthal region .
an abnormal development of the posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal development of the iliac process primordium .
an abnormal development of the merkel cell .
an abnormal development of the ceratohyal .
an abnormal development of the tail vein .
an abnormal development of the upper jaw .
an abnormal development of the non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormal development of the anterior tectum .
an abnormal development of the ventral abdominal vein .
an abnormal development of the external coil of the small intestine .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb zeugopod .
an abnormal development of the nasociliary artery .
an abnormal development of the migrating neuroblast .
an abnormal development of the lateral pallium .
an abnormal development of the cutaneous femoral vein .
an abnormal development of the bladder .
an abnormal development of the primary heart field .
an abnormal development of the vagal neural crest .
an abnormal development of the stage iv oocyte .
an abnormal development of the descending interneuron .
an abnormal development of the rostral presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the dorsal pallidum .
an abnormal development of the scapula .
an abnormal development of the medial nasal prominence .
an abnormal development of the myotome of tail somite 15 .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 3 .
an abnormal development of the prethalamus basal plate .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of head somite 4 .
an abnormal development of the inner limiting membrane .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 5 .
an abnormal development of the ischium .
an abnormal development of the glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
an abnormal development of the adenohypophysis .
an abnormal development of the ventral foregut .
an abnormal development of the presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the palatoquadrate .
an abnormal development of the pharyngeal pouch .
an abnormal development of the kinetochore .
an abnormal development of the planum hypobranchiale .
an abnormal development of the pericardial muscle .
an abnormal development of the bipolar neuron .
an abnormal development of the posterior cerebral vein .
an abnormal development of the anterior neuroectoderm .
an abnormal development of the stage iii oocyte .
an abnormal development of the aortic arch 1 .
an abnormal development of the late proximal tubule .
an abnormal development of the ventral endoderm .
an abnormal development of the trunk somite 6 .
an abnormal development of the mandibular artery .
an abnormal development of the apical ectodermal ridge .
an abnormal development of the posterior commissure .
an abnormal development of the pars intermedia .
an abnormal development of the regenerating skeletal element .
an abnormal development of the otic capsule .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus cervicis primordium .
an abnormal development of the forelimb digit 2 .
an abnormal development of the anterior endoderm .
an abnormal development of the membrane bone .
an abnormal development of the dermal skeleton .
an abnormal development of the lens fiber cell mass .
an abnormal development of the branchial crest .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 12 .
an abnormal development of the regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
an abnormal development of the ventral fin vasculature .
an abnormal development of the hindgut primordium .
an abnormal development of the blastocoel anlage .
an abnormal development of the proximal tubule branch .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the endocardium .
an abnormal development of the dermatome .
an abnormal development of the rhombic lip .
an abnormal development of the floor plate .
an abnormal development of the posterior lateral line ganglion .
an abnormal development of the sphenoid region .
an abnormal development of the hypothalamus .
an abnormal development of the germinal vesicle .
an abnormal development of the nucleus .
an abnormal development of the visceral pouch 3 .
an abnormal development of the peritoneum .
an abnormal development of the subclavian vein .
an abnormal development of the neuroectoderm outer layer .
an abnormal development of the posterior lateral line .
an abnormal development of the secondary spermatogonium .
an abnormal development of the posterior endomesoderm .
an abnormal development of the distal stomach .
an abnormal development of the laryngeal muscle primordium .
an abnormal development of the muller cell .
an abnormal development of the retinal pigmented epithelium .
an abnormal development of the internal jugular vein .
an abnormal development of the pronephric mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the oxygen accumulating cell .
an abnormal development of the outer limiting membrane .
an abnormal development of the processus posterior hyalis .
an abnormal development of the anterior cardinal vein .
an abnormal development of the cortical actin cytoskeleton .
an abnormal development of the arteria mesenterica posterior .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
an abnormal development of the outflow tract .
an abnormal development of the polar body .
an abnormal development of the m . obliquus inferior primordium .
an abnormal development of the lens placode .
an abnormal development of the anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal development of the duct of cuvier .
an abnormal development of the simple organ .
an abnormal development of the centriole .
an abnormal development of the myotome of head somite 1 .
an abnormal development of the multiciliated cell .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric early distal tubule .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere r6 .
an abnormal development of the fibrocartilage .
an abnormal development of the jacobson's organ .
an abnormal development of the mullerian duct .
an abnormal development of the mucociliary epithelium .
an abnormal development of the accessory olfactory bulb .
an abnormal development of the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an abnormal development of the auditory tube .
an abnormal development of the pharynx .
an abnormal development of the non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
an abnormal development of the hypochord .
an abnormal development of the internal coil of the small intestine .
an abnormal development of the caudal lateral line .
an abnormal development of the filter chamber .
an abnormal development of the dorsal habenular nucleus .
an abnormal development of the animal part ,  late involuting .
an abnormal development of the notochordal epithelium .
an abnormal development of the posterior neural fold .
an abnormal development of the cartilaginous condensation .
an abnormal development of the egg jelly .
an abnormal development of the hyaloid vein .
an abnormal development of the gastrula cell .
an abnormal development of the dorsal fin skeleton .
an abnormal development of the retinal layer .
an abnormal development of the right blastomere .
an abnormal development of the distal mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the astrocyte .
an abnormal development of the optic nerve .
an abnormal development of the early distal tubule .
an abnormal development of the retinal inner nuclear layer .
an abnormal development of the aortic arch 5 .
an abnormal development of the forelimb digit 4 .
an abnormal development of the hypoglossal nerve .
an abnormal development of the proctodeum .
an abnormal development of the mitochondrial cloud .
an abnormal development of the granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal development of the dermal bone .
an abnormal development of the vegetal part ,  early involuting .
an abnormal development of the pineal gland .
an abnormal development of the ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the blastocoel .
an abnormal development of the locus coeruleus .
an abnormal development of the coracoid bone .
an abnormal development of the hypobranchial placode .
an abnormal development of the notoplate .
an abnormal development of the retinal outer plexiform layer .
an abnormal development of the horizontal cell .
an abnormal development of the caudal notochord .
an abnormal development of the optic stalk .
an abnormal development of the pharyngeal epithelium .
an abnormal development of the lateral line system .
an abnormal development of the ilium .
an abnormal development of the neuroendocrine cell .
an abnormal development of the solitary tract .
an abnormal development of the processus articularis palatoquadrati .
an abnormal development of the otic region .
an abnormal development of the braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
an abnormal development of the trochlear nerve .
an abnormal development of the anterior crista .
an abnormal development of the processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
an abnormal development of the myotome of head somite 3 .
an abnormal development of the oocyte cortex .
an abnormal development of the oculomotor nerve .
an abnormal development of the apical region .
an abnormal development of the anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
an abnormal development of the tendon .
an abnormal development of the pubis .
an abnormal development of the bowman's gland .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere r7 .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
an abnormal development of the ovary .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb digit 3 .
an abnormal development of the inner fin .
an abnormal development of the truncus arteriosus .
an abnormal development of the tail somite 14 .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere r5 .
an abnormal development of the dentine .
an abnormal development of the rectal diverticulum .
an abnormal development of the anterior lymph sac .
an abnormal development of the secondary heart field .
an abnormal development of the alkali secreting cell .
an abnormal development of the gall bladder .
an abnormal development of the vagal epibranchial placode .
an abnormal development of the anterior endomesoderm .
an abnormal development of the medium cavity .
an abnormal development of the neurenteric canal .
an abnormal development of the branchial basket .
an abnormal development of the ventricular outflow tract .
an abnormal development of the musculoabdominal vein .
an abnormal development of the torus semicircularis .
an abnormal development of the metatarsus .
an abnormal development of the m . interhyoideus primordium .
an abnormal development of the ophthalmic artery .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere r1 .
an abnormal development of the involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
an abnormal development of the profundus ganglion .
an abnormal development of the pars nervosa .
an abnormal development of the cardiac ventricle .
an abnormal development of the colon .
an abnormal development of the basal region .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 11 .
an abnormal development of the anterior semicircular canal .
an abnormal development of the migrating myoblast .
an abnormal development of the abdominal myoblast .
an abnormal development of the mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormal development of the myotome of tail somite 18 .
an abnormal development of the pre - enameloid .
an abnormal development of the m . dilatator laryngis .
an abnormal development of the ischiadic artery .
an abnormal development of the intersomitic vessel .
an abnormal development of the posterior vena cava .
an abnormal development of the keratinocyte .
an abnormal development of the transverse process .
an abnormal development of the enameloid .
an abnormal development of the m . geniohyoideus primordium .
an abnormal development of the perichondrial cell .
an abnormal development of the organ cortex .
an abnormal development of the epicardium .
an abnormal development of the cementoblast .
an abnormal development of the m . subarcualis rectus i .
an abnormal development of the olfactory region .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
an abnormal development of the neurohypophysis .
an abnormal development of the perivitelline space .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
an abnormal development of the ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric late proximal tubule .
an abnormal development of the angioblast .
an abnormal development of the interstitial cell of leydig .
an abnormal development of the stromal cell .
an abnormal development of the oral cavity .
an abnormal development of the right lymph heart .
an abnormal development of the retinal stem cell .
an abnormal development of the chordoneural hinge .
an abnormal development of the rib .
an abnormal development of the liver primordium .
an abnormal development of the glomerular mesangial cell .
an abnormal development of the pericyte .
an abnormal development of the larval intestinal epithelium .
an abnormal development of the simple columnar epithelium .
an abnormal development of the gut epithelium .
an abnormal development of the lateral nasal prominence .
an abnormal development of the stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
an abnormal development of the myelin accumulating cell .
an abnormal development of the rostral tuberal region .
an abnormal development of the claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
an abnormal development of the caudal artery .
an abnormal development of the adrenal medulla .
an abnormal development of the pseudoblastema .
an abnormal development of the pronephric nephrostome .
an abnormal development of the ophthalmic vein .
an abnormal development of the gastric vein .
an abnormal development of the endodermal cell .
an abnormal development of the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 1 .
an abnormal development of the lateral abdominal vein .
an abnormal development of the smooth muscle myocyte .
an abnormal development of the hepatocyte .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus anterior .
an abnormal development of the mandibular nerve .
an abnormal development of the forelimb digit 3 .
an abnormal development of the pylorus .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the cardiac jelly .
an abnormal development of the stage v oocyte .
an abnormal development of the dorsal lymph space .
an abnormal development of the adult intestinal epithelium .
an abnormal development of the posterior crista .
an abnormal development of the m band .
an abnormal development of the fasciculated network of fibrils .
an abnormal development of the hyomandibular lateral line .
an abnormal development of the posterior ventral blood island .
an abnormal development of the mineralized cartilage tissue .
an abnormal development of the thymus .
an abnormal development of the cornua trabecula .
an abnormal development of the glomeral mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
an abnormal development of the tail somite 17 .
an abnormal development of the lung .
an abnormal development of the pulmonary epithelium .
an abnormal development of the fundus .
an abnormal development of the m . geniohyoideus .
an abnormal development of the optic disc .
an abnormal development of the fibrocellular pad .
an abnormal development of the pia mater .
an abnormal development of the stomach body .
an abnormal development of the raphe nucleus .
an abnormal development of the posterior foregut .
an abnormal development of the conjunctiva .
an abnormal development of the fin crest .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric collecting duct .
an abnormal development of the anterior dorsal fin .
an abnormal development of the vitelline vein .
an abnormal development of the anteroventral lateral line placode .
an abnormal development of the pulmonary vein .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus inferior .
an abnormal development of the olfactory epithelial support cell .
an abnormal development of the sclera .
an abnormal development of the oropharyngeal papilla .
an abnormal development of the claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d2 .1 .
an abnormal development of the retinal inner plexiform layer .
an abnormal development of the m . obliquus inferior .
an abnormal development of the central retina .
an abnormal development of the orbital region .
an abnormal development of the prosomere 4 .
an abnormal development of the pharyngeal mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the manicotto glandulare .
an abnormal development of the endothelial cell .
an abnormal development of the mesencephalic artery .
an abnormal development of the subcommissural organ .
an abnormal development of the circumpharyngeal ridge .
an abnormal development of the posterior branchial crest .
an abnormal development of the non - involuting marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the tracheal epithelium .
an abnormal development of the outer fin .
an abnormal development of the follicle cell .
an abnormal development of the schwann cell .
an abnormal development of the iliac process .
an abnormal development of the left - right axis .
an abnormal development of the sub - blastoporal endoderm .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the tympanic annulus .
an abnormal development of the ureter .
an abnormal development of the retinal progenitor cell .
an abnormal development of the hepatic vein .
an abnormal development of the pectoral girdle .
an abnormal development of the parathyroid .
an abnormal development of the metencephalic artery .
an abnormal development of the thoracic region .
an abnormal development of the processus lateralis hyalis .
an abnormal development of the dendrite .
an abnormal development of the posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the palatoquadrati .
an abnormal development of the neurocranium .
an abnormal development of the arterial endothelium .
an abnormal development of the non - cililated epidermal cell .
an abnormal development of the subintestinal vein .
an abnormal development of the female organism .
an abnormal development of the foregut epithelium .
an abnormal development of the ciliary body .
an abnormal development of the wound epidermis outer layer .
an abnormal development of the delta cell .
an abnormal development of the transporting epithelium .
an abnormal development of the roof plate .
an abnormal development of the pericardium .
an abnormal development of the vascular plexus .
an abnormal development of the left - right organizer primordium .
an abnormal development of the left channel of ventral aorta .
an abnormal development of the claw primordium .
an abnormal development of the presacral vertebra .
an abnormal development of the anterior lateral line placode .
an abnormal development of the perichordal tissue .
an abnormal development of the neuromast mantle cell .
an abnormal development of the lower eyelid .
an abnormal development of the presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the amphibian papilla .
an abnormal development of the lateral forebrain bundle .
an abnormal development of the dorsolateral commissural neuron .
an abnormal development of the metencephalic vein .
an abnormal development of the epigastric artery .
an abnormal development of the stage vi oocyte .
an abnormal development of the vegetal pole .
an abnormal development of the mandibular arch skeleton .
an abnormal development of the apical mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the blastocoel roof .
an abnormal development of the antero - ventral region .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the ventral fin margin .
an abnormal development of the posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal development of the barrier epithelial cell .
an abnormal development of the ventricular zone .
an abnormal development of the spermatid .
an abnormal development of the vertebral centrum .
an abnormal development of the secondary myofiber .
an abnormal development of the supraorbital lateral line .
an abnormal development of the wedge region .
an abnormal development of the tuberal region .
an abnormal development of the hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormal development of the mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormal development of the cervical vertebra .
an abnormal development of the profundal placode .
an abnormal development of the acinar cell .
an abnormal development of the musculature of face .
an abnormal development of the ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the globe .
an abnormal development of the central amygdala .
an abnormal development of the trochlear motornucleus .
an abnormal development of the myotome of tail somite 16 .
an abnormal development of the subthalamic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the posterior lateral line placode .
an abnormal development of the caudal tuberal region .
an abnormal development of the central canal .
an abnormal development of the tooth .
an abnormal development of the metacarpus .
an abnormal development of the dorsal involuting marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus abdominis .
an abnormal development of the posterior hypothalamus .
an abnormal development of the spermatozoon .
an abnormal development of the retinal outer nuclear layer .
an abnormal development of the intersomitic tendon .
an abnormal development of the forebrain - midbrain boundary .
an abnormal development of the lateral ganglionic eminence .
an abnormal development of the dorso - lateral region .
an abnormal development of the roof of mouth .
an abnormal development of the atrioventricular canal .
an abnormal development of the anterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormal development of the frontal nerve .
an abnormal development of the dorsal lateral line .
an abnormal development of the middle lateral line .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
an abnormal development of the efferent neuron .
an abnormal development of the dorsal region .
an abnormal development of the ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormal development of the meckel's cartilage .
an abnormal development of the posterior semicircular canal .
an abnormal development of the adult immune system .
an abnormal development of the roux spot .
an abnormal development of the b cell .
an abnormal development of the postsacral vertebra .
an abnormal development of the jaw muscle .
an abnormal development of the subinterstitial vein .
an abnormal development of the postcaval vein .
an abnormal development of the ischiadic vein .
an abnormal development of the anterior entopeduncular region .
an abnormal development of the caudal vein .
an abnormal development of the goblet cell .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
an abnormal development of the prehallux .
an abnormal development of the digestive enzyme secreting cell .
an abnormal development of the hepatic portal vein .
an abnormal development of the ascending interneuron .
an abnormal development of the thyroid .
an abnormal development of the spinal neuron .
an abnormal development of the interdigital webbing .
an abnormal development of the zygote cortex .
an abnormal development of the neutrophil .
an abnormal development of the planum trabeculare anticum .
an abnormal development of the larval alimentary system .
an abnormal development of the dorsal pallium .
an abnormal development of the bone marrow .
an abnormal development of the regenerating hindlimb .
an abnormal development of the vegetal endoderm .
an abnormal development of the joint region .
an abnormal development of the astrocyte end - foot .
an abnormal development of the abducens nerve .
an abnormal development of the elastic cartilage tissue .
an abnormal development of the ceratobranchial iv .
an abnormal development of the bile duct .
an abnormal development of the ciliary axoneme .
an abnormal development of the left spleen primordium .
an abnormal development of the buccopharyngeal membrane .
an abnormal development of the mitotic spindle .
an abnormal development of the retinal ganglion cell .
an abnormal development of the m . levator scapulae inferior .
an abnormal development of the intestinal stem cell .
an abnormal development of the ventro - lateral marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the early proximal tubule .
an abnormal development of the spermatocyte .
an abnormal development of the dorsal trunk .
an abnormal development of the left ventricle .
an abnormal development of the vestibulocochlear ganglion .
an abnormal development of the neuromast support cell .
an abnormal development of the vertebral element .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
an abnormal development of the fenestra subocularis .
an abnormal development of the magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the enamel .
an abnormal development of the optic fiber layer .
an abnormal development of the pars media of the stapes .
an abnormal development of the mm .
an abnormal development of the paracrine cell .
an abnormal development of the footplate of the stapes .
an abnormal development of the brachet's cleft .
an abnormal development of the lateral septum .
an abnormal development of the facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
an abnormal development of the acid secreting cell .
an abnormal development of the cornea .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric early proximal tubule .
an abnormal development of the intersomitic artery .
an abnormal development of the prosomere 5 .
an abnormal development of the migrating macrophage .
an abnormal development of the macrophage .
an abnormal development of the myotome of head somite 2 .
an abnormal development of the plasma membrane .
an abnormal development of the ventral blood island border .
an abnormal development of the stage i oocyte .
an abnormal development of the vegetal cortex .
an abnormal development of the glomerulus .
an abnormal development of the ventral trunk .
an abnormal development of the pars externa of the stapes .
an abnormal development of the appendicular ossicle .
an abnormal development of the renal artery .
an abnormal development of the adrenal cortex .
an abnormal development of the external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal development of the multiciliated cell precursor .
an abnormal development of the lens transitional zone .
an abnormal development of the lateral funiculus .
an abnormal development of the cardiac progenitor cell .
an abnormal development of the cardiac valve .
an abnormal development of the stratum spongiosum .
an abnormal development of the endolymphatic duct .
an abnormal development of the visceral pouch 4 .
an abnormal development of the rohon - beard neuron .
an abnormal development of the neurocoel .
an abnormal development of the sinus venosus .
an abnormal development of the axial region .
an abnormal development of the fourth ventricle .
an abnormal development of the hyaloid artery .
an abnormal development of the atypical epithelium .
an abnormal development of the medial region .
an abnormal development of the podocyte .
an abnormal development of the posterior endoderm .
an abnormal development of the left atrium .
an abnormal development of the apical junction complex .
an abnormal development of the basal lamina .
an abnormal development of the dorsal septum .
an abnormal development of the electrically active cell .
an abnormal development of the middle lateral line placode .
an abnormal development of the anterior branchial crest .
an abnormal development of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
an abnormal development of the facial nerve .
an abnormal development of the claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
an abnormal development of the hindlimb region .
an abnormal development of the dorsal foregut .
an abnormal development of the ventral marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the lateral vein .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch 3 .
an abnormal development of the exocrine cell .
an abnormal development of the caudal presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormal development of the superficial layer of neurectoderm .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 6 .
an abnormal development of the posterior palatine artery .
an abnormal development of the external jugular vein .
an abnormal development of the suprarostral plate .
an abnormal development of the occipital region .
an abnormal development of the processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
an abnormal development of the nostril .
an abnormal development of the nucleate erythrocyte .
an abnormal development of the archenteron roof midline .
an abnormal development of the nucleus reticularis medialis .
an abnormal development of the neuroectoderm inner layer .
an abnormal development of the sympathetic chain .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
an abnormal development of the suspensorium .
an abnormal development of the spinal nerve .
an abnormal development of the germinal granule .
an abnormal development of the stria terminalis .
an abnormal development of the epidermis outer layer .
an abnormal development of the basilar papilla .
an abnormal development of the leydig cell .
an abnormal development of the infrarostral .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
an abnormal development of the intersomitic epithelium .
an abnormal development of the mucus secreting cell .
an abnormal development of the spiracle .
an abnormal development of the dorsal column nucleus .
an abnormal development of the melanoblast .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus posterior .
an abnormal development of the ventro - lateral region .
an abnormal development of the optic chiasm .
an abnormal development of the central nucleus of the thalamus .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 7 .
an abnormal development of the optic choroid vascular plexus .
an abnormal development of the dental epithelium .
an abnormal development of the cloacal sphincter .
an abnormal development of the isthmic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the m . transversus ventralis ii .
an abnormal development of the anterior commissure .
an abnormal development of the skin seromucous gland .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
an abnormal development of the pars interna of the stapes .
an abnormal development of the periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
an abnormal development of the actin filament .
an abnormal development of the ceratobranchial iii .
an abnormal development of the peripheral nerve .
an abnormal development of the ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
an abnormal development of the ileum .
an abnormal development of the ventral region .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
an abnormal development of the m . interhyoideus .
an abnormal development of the hemangioblast .
an abnormal development of the neuropil of the optic tectum .
an abnormal development of the forelimb digit 5 .
an abnormal development of the maxillary nerve .
an abnormal development of the animal - vegetal axis .
an abnormal development of the blastocoel floor .
an abnormal development of the external carotid artery .
an abnormal development of the fenestra basicranialis .
an abnormal development of the carpus .
an abnormal development of the adherens junction .
an abnormal development of the barrier cell .
an abnormal development of the medial septum .
an abnormal development of the cardia .
an abnormal development of the nucleus reticularis superior .
an abnormal development of the hypaxial muscle .
an abnormal development of the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormal development of the medial amygdala .
an abnormal development of the larynx .
an abnormal development of the facial epibranchial placode .
an abnormal development of the archenteron floor .
an abnormal development of the hatching gland cell .
an abnormal development of the anterodorsal lateral line placode .
an abnormal development of the dorsolateral neural tube .
an abnormal development of the rathke's pouch .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 2 .
an abnormal development of the oropharynx .
an abnormal development of the non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 8 .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
an abnormal development of the rectum .
an abnormal development of the retinal cone cell .
an abnormal development of the myotome of trunk somite 4 .
an abnormal development of the flexural organ .
an abnormal development of the microglial cell .
an abnormal development of the branchial arch skeleton 4 .
an abnormal development of the choroid fissure .
an abnormal development of the post - anal gut .
an abnormal development of the periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
an abnormal development of the infraorbital lateral line .
an abnormal development of the suprablastoporal endoderm .
an abnormal development of the myocoelic slit .
an abnormal development of the ventrolateral edge of myotome .
an abnormal development of the joint .
an abnormal development of the mesonephric late distal tubule .
an abnormal development of the simple cuboidal epithelium .
an abnormal development of the dorsal fin margin .
an abnormal development of the posterior tail .
an abnormal development of the processus anterior hyalis .
an abnormal development of the ligament cell .
an abnormal development of the dorso - lateral marginal zone .
an abnormal development of the liver parenchyme .
an abnormal development of the subocular cartilage .
an abnormal development of the intersomitic vein .
an abnormal development of the commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
an abnormal development of the posterior region .
an abnormal development of the pronephric sinus .
an abnormal development of the m . levator scapulae superior .
an abnormal development of the yolk platelet .
an abnormal development of the stomach epithelium .
an abnormal development of the lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
an abnormal development of the head endoderm .
an abnormal development of the biliary tree .
an abnormal development of the somatic stem cell .
an abnormal development of the regenerating tail .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere r2 .
an abnormal development of the vestibular apparatus .
an abnormal development of the oligodendrocyte .
an abnormal development of the dorsal fin vasculature .
an abnormal development of the compound organ component .
an abnormal development of the forelimb region .
an abnormal development of the m . petrohyoideus .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
an abnormal development of the mesentery .
an abnormal development of the m . transversus anterior .
an abnormal development of the stage ii oocyte .
an abnormal development of the fat body .
an abnormal development of the tarsus .
an abnormal development of the dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
an abnormal development of the sciatic nerve .
an abnormal development of the erythroid cell .
an abnormal development of the saccular macula .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere r8 .
an abnormal development of the enteric neuron .
an abnormal development of the esophageal epithelium .
an abnormal development of the peripheral retina .
an abnormal development of the ventral tegmentum .
an abnormal development of the rhombomere r3 .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
an abnormal development of the peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormal development of the facial vein .
an abnormal development of the proximal - distal axis .
an abnormal development of the regenerating fin .
an abnormal development of the centromere .
an abnormal development of the skeletal muscle satellite cell .
an abnormal development of the growth cone .
an abnormal development of the atrioventricular canal endocardium .
an abnormal development of the digit - joint region .
an abnormal development of the small secretory cell .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
an abnormal development of the left - dorsal blastomere .
an abnormal development of the blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
an abnormal development of the m . levator mandibulae externus .
an abnormal development of the zona limitans intrathalamica .
an abnormal development of the multiciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal development of the m . rectus superior .
an abnormal development of the prepollex .
an abnormal development of the left - ventral blastomere .
an abnormal development of the pyloric sphincter .
an abnormal development of the eberth - kastschenko layer .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
an abnormal development of the proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormal development of the bronchus .
an abnormal development of the processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
an abnormal development of the endoplasmic reticulum .
an abnormal development of the m . depressor mandibulae .
an abnormal development of the lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
an abnormal development of the ceratobranchial ii .
an abnormal development of the postero - dorsal region .
an abnormal development of the sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
an abnormal development of the myotome of tail somite 17 .
an abnormal development of the animal pole .
an abnormal development of the iris .
an abnormal development of the granule cell .
an abnormal development of the osteoblast .
an abnormal development of the endocardial cushion .
an abnormal development of the arteria subclavia .
an abnormal development of the coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
an abnormal development of the postero - ventral region .
an abnormal development of the anterior - posterior axis .
an abnormal development of the blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
an abnormal development of the utricle .
an abnormal development of the aortic arch 4 .
abnormal cell adhesion .
any abnormal coiling of the small intestine .
a wholly dorsalized embryo .
a partially dorsalized embryo .
a wholly ventralized embryo .
a partially ventralized embryo .
a wholly anterioralized embryo .
a partially anterioralized embryo .
a wholly posterioralized embryo .
a partially posterioralized embryo .
abnormally decreased coiling of the small intestine .
abnormally decreased coiling of the external coil of the small intestine .
abnormally decreased coiling of the internal coil of the small intestine .
an abnormality of the sarcomere organization in skeletal muscle .
any abnormal fusion of the eye and the eye .
any abnormal fusion of the hindlimb and the trunk .
any abnormal fusion of the forelimb and the trunk .
any abnormal fusion of the hindlimb digit and the hindlimb digit .
any abnormal fusion of the forelimb digit and the forelimb digit .
any abnormal fusion of the somite and the somite .
any abnormal fusion of the metatarsus and the metatarsus .
any abnormal fusion of the tarsus and the tarsus .
any abnormal fusion of the carpus and the carpus .
any abnormal fusion of the anterior branchial crest and the posterior branchial crest .
any abnormal fusion of the tibia - fibula and the autopod .
any abnormal fusion of the optic stalk and the optic stalk .
any abnormal fusion of the spike and the spike .
any abnormal fusion of the metacarpus and the metacarpus .
any abnormal fusion of the olfactory epithelium and the olfactory epithelium .
any abnormal fusion of the eye and the brain .
any abnormal fusion of the olfactory pit and the brain .
any abnormal fusion of the eye and the olfactory pit .
any abnormal fusion of the eye and the olfactory epithelium .
any abnormal fusion of the spike in the regenerating hindlimb and the spike in the regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal fusion of the spike in the regenerating forelimb and the spike in the regenerating forelimb .
any abnormal fusion of the metacarpus in the regenerating forelimb and the metacarpus in the regenerating forelimb .
any abnormal fusion of the metatarsus in the regenerating hindlimb and the metatarsus in the regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal fusion of the forelimb digit in the regenerating forelimb and the forelimb digit in the regenerating forelimb .
any abnormal fusion of the hindlimb digit in the regenerating hindlimb and the hindlimb digit in the regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal fusion of the tarsus in the regenerating hindlimb and the tarsus in the regenerating hindlimb .
any abnormal fusion of the carpus in the regenerating forelimb and the carpus in the regenerating forelimb .
any abnormal fusion of the tibia - fibula in the regenerating hindlimb and the autopod in the regenerating hindlimb .
a decreased occurrence of cell migration in branchial crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell migration in hyoid crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell migration in mandibular crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell migration in anterior branchial crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell migration in posterior branchial crest .
lack of insulin receptor signaling pathway .
abnormally reduced functionality of ribosomal protein s6 kinase activity .
abnormally reduced functionality of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
abnormal ribosomal protein s6 kinase activity .
abnormal cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
an abnormality of the determination of left / right symmetry in intestine .
an abnormality of the determination of left / right symmetry in lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormality of the determination of left / right symmetry in alimentary system .
an abnormality of the cell migration in neural crest .
abnormal insulin receptor signaling pathway .
increased ribosomal protein s6 kinase activity .
increased cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
absent or undetectable determination of left / right symmetry in intestine .
absent or undetectable determination of left / right symmetry in lateral plate mesoderm .
absent or undetectable determination of left / right symmetry in alimentary system .
abnormal developmental process .
increased ability to move cilium in left - right organizer .
increased ability to move cilium in floor plate .
increased ability to move cilium in brain .
increased ability to move cilium in mucociliary epithelium .
increased ability to move cilium in pronephric kidney .
increased ability to move cilium in pronephric nephrostome .
increased ability to move cilium in olfactory pit .
increased ability to move cilium in alimentary system .
increased ability to move cilium in stomach .
increased ability to move cilium in esophagus .
increased ability to move cilium in ciliated cell .
increased ability to move cilium in monociliated cell .
increased ability to move cilium in multiciliated cell .
increased ability to move cilium in ciliated epidermal cell .
increased ability to move cilium in ciliated non - epidermal cell .
increased ability to move cilium in monociliated epidermal cell .
increased ability to move cilium in multiciliated epidermal cell .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the left - right organizer .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the neural progenitor cell .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the floor plate .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the brain .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the mucociliary epithelium .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the pronephric kidney .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the pronephric nephrostome .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the proximal tubule .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the olfactory pit .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the auditory hair cell .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the lateral line .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the alimentary system .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the stomach .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the esophagus .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the monociliated cell .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the multiciliated cell .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the ciliated epidermal cell .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the monociliated epidermal cell .
a morphological abnormality of the cilium in the multiciliated epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the ciliated cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the monociliated cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the multiciliated cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the ciliated epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the monociliated epidermal cell .
the presence of an increased number of cilium in the multiciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the monociliated cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the multiciliated cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the ciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the monociliated epidermal cell .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the cilium in the multiciliated epidermal cell .
inability to move cilium in left - right organizer .
inability to move cilium in floor plate .
inability to move cilium in brain .
inability to move cilium in mucociliary epithelium .
inability to move cilium in pronephric kidney .
inability to move cilium in pronephric nephrostome .
inability to move cilium in olfactory pit .
inability to move cilium in alimentary system .
inability to move cilium in stomach .
inability to move cilium in esophagus .
inability to move cilium in ciliated cell .
inability to move cilium in monociliated cell .
inability to move cilium in multiciliated cell .
inability to move cilium in ciliated epidermal cell .
inability to move cilium in ciliated non - epidermal cell .
inability to move cilium in monociliated epidermal cell .
inability to move cilium in multiciliated epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the ciliated cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the monociliated cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the monociliated epidermal cell .
the presence of a reduced number of cilium in the multiciliated epidermal cell .
absence of the cilium in the monociliated cell .
absence of the cilium in the multiciliated cell .
absence of the cilium in the ciliated epidermal cell .
absence of the cilium in the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
absence of the cilium in the monociliated epidermal cell .
absence of the cilium in the multiciliated epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the monociliated cell .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the multiciliated cell .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the ciliated epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the monociliated epidermal cell .
an increase in the size of the cilium in the multiciliated epidermal cell .
decreased ability to move cilium in left - right organizer .
decreased ability to move cilium in floor plate .
decreased ability to move cilium in brain .
decreased ability to move cilium in mucociliary epithelium .
decreased ability to move cilium in pronephric kidney .
decreased ability to move cilium in pronephric nephrostome .
decreased ability to move cilium in olfactory pit .
decreased ability to move cilium in alimentary system .
decreased ability to move cilium in stomach .
decreased ability to move cilium in esophagus .
decreased ability to move cilium in ciliated cell .
decreased ability to move cilium in monociliated cell .
decreased ability to move cilium in multiciliated cell .
decreased ability to move cilium in ciliated epidermal cell .
decreased ability to move cilium in ciliated non - epidermal cell .
decreased ability to move cilium in monociliated epidermal cell .
decreased ability to move cilium in multiciliated epidermal cell .
abnormal ability to move cilium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in outer fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in inner fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in otic vesicle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lower eyelid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retina .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in brain .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forebrain .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in telencephalon .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in diencephalon .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in midbrain .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindbrain .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypophysis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in genital ridge .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spinal cord .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventricular zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in roof plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyoid crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epidermis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epidermis outer layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vitelline membrane .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cement gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hatching gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in zygote .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal cap .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal cap inner layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal cap outer layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epidermis inner layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuroectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuroectoderm outer layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuroectoderm inner layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - chordal neural plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in chordal neural plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in notoplate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cement gland primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal aorta .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in notochord .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypochord .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in presomitic mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in somite .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric nephrostome .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric duct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in heart .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myocardium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocardium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral blood island .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventro - lateral marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorso - lateral marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuting marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bottle cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastopore lip .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prechordal plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in circumblastoporal collar .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuted dorsal mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuted ventral mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intermediate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliary marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in upper blastopore lip .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lower blastopore lip .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in archenteron floor .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gastrocoel roof plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal arch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular arch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyoid arch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiovascular system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver diverticulum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in midgut .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindgut .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in post - anal gut .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in chordoneural hinge .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomeral mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in germ cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in embryo .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in capillary .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in respiratory system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trachea .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lung .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in external gill .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bronchus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hematological system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bone marrow .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blood .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in alimentary system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in esophagus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stomach .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intestine .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in small intestine .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in large intestine .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver and biliary system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bile duct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gall bladder .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pancreas .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in exocrine pancreas .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesentery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in peritoneum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in urogenital system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric kidney .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in genital system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in urinary system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ureter .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomerulus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric collecting duct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in urethra .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bladder .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in male genitalia .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in female genitalia .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in testis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocrine system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in islets of langerhans .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pineal gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in thyroid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in thymus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adrenal gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adrenal cortex .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adrenal medulla .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in parathyroid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in musculoskeletal system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bone tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in joint .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tendon .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in smooth muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermal system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nervous system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral nervous system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in eye .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cornea .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in globe .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in conjunctiva .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclera .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in iris .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliary body .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsolateral placode region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in auditory apparatus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tympanic disk .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in middle ear .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in inner ear .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in osseous labyrinth .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in utricle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sacculus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lagena .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in semicircular canal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal hemisphere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in axial mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastocoel anlage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastocoel roof .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastopore .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spinal ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sympathetic chain .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in auditory tube .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in auditory ossicle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in central nervous system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in appendage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermatome .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in otic placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal part ,  early involuting .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trigeminal placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in eye primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic vesicle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fasciculated network of fibrils .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in follicle cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in follicle layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in foregut .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in duodenum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ileum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rectum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepato - pancreatic duct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior cardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric duct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in colon .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cloaca .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural groove .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior neural tube .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - involuting marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oral evagination .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ovary .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in paraxial mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in perivitelline space .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pigment layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in polar body .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in primary oogonium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 6 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypophyseal primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in secondary oogonium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mouth primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in jacobson's organ .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory organ .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal part ,  late involuting .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal hemisphere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal yolk mass .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epibranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric nephron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in late proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in early distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in early proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in late distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric nephron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in central endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in floor plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior neural tube .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior neural fold .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral plate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epicardium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk neural crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sensorial layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in profundus ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypobranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left spleen primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in right spleen primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spleen .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in coelomic epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mullerian duct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric early proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric late proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric early distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric late distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in heart primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocardial tube .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral aorta .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left channel of ventral aorta .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in right channel of ventral aorta .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in external carotid artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in larval aorta .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 6 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior palatine artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vascular endothelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in arterial endothelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in venous endothelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in arteria iliaca communis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in occipitovertebral artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in arteria subclavia .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in internal carotid artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cerebral artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ophthalmic artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior palatine artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in arteria mesenterica posterior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in right lymph heart .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left lymph heart .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in duct of cuvier .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lymph vessel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in omphalomesenteric vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in capillary system of liver .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in musculoabdominal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in external jugular vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral postcardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in internal jugular vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior cardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial cardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in interrenal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepatic vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior vena cava .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gastric vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in subinterstitial vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepatic portal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pulmonary vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial abdominal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tendon fibroblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotomal cartilage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 6 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 7 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotomal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in notochordal sheath .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 8 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 9 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 10 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 11 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 12 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 13 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 14 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 15 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 16 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 17 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gasserian ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trigeminal ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rathke's pouch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tooth .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in infraorbital lateral line primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in supraorbital lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in thyroid primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in taste bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tongue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gill primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ultimobranchial body .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver parenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in biliary tree .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pyloric sphincter .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in occipital lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in infraorbital lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyomandibular lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in middle lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal pancreatic bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal tail fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in unicellular gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in xanthophore .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in iridophore .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in choroid fissure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic stalk .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial neural crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lung primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in circulatory system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blood vessel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stirnorgan .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in musculature of face .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in melanophore .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rectal diverticulum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in abdominal myoblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in connective tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior lymph sac .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in proctodeum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in elastica externa .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in notochordal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in first pancreatic bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in second pancreatic bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral pancreatic bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric kidney .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical structure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical group .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in whole organism .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in female organism .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in male organism .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in aorta .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in primary germ layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in organism subdivision .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pigment cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myoblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fibroblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in primary spermatogonium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spermatocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in secondary spermatogonium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rohon - beard neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in limb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in surface structure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in digit .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in viscus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in multi - tissue structure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in simple organ .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in compound organ component .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in compound organ .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in embryonic structure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in egg .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adipose tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fat body .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oviduct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stem cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hematopoietic stem cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in chondrocranium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pectoral girdle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pelvic girdle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in postcranial axial skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebral column .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cervical vertebra .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in presacral vertebra .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sacral vertebra .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal vertebra .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in urostyle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in larynx .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lower jaw .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in meckel's cartilage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in suspensorium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in upper jaw .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in seminiferous tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oculomotor nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trochlear nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trigeminal nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in abducens nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in facial nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibulocochlear nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glossopharyngeal nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vagus nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cerebellum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medulla oblongata .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spinal nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in transverse process .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of head somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of head somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of head somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of head somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of head somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 6 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 7 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 8 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 9 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 10 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 11 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 12 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 13 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 14 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 15 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 16 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 17 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in amphibian papilla .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in basilar papilla .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gonad .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spermatozoon .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in primordial germ cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gamete .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spermatid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in immune system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in larval immune system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adult immune system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lymphocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in natural killer cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in t cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in b cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in thymocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical cluster .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in limb bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in acellular anatomical structure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in basal lamina .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in solid compound organ .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cavitated compound organ .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in appendicular skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermatocranium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neurocranium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in orbital region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in occipital region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sphenoid region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in otic region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in splanchnocranium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyoid arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left atrium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in right atrium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac ventricle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sensory system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibuloauditory system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gustatory system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in visual system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lymphatic system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gut epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oral epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dental epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural tube .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in chondrocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in podocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in carpus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in metacarpus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in radio - ulna .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in humerus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tarsus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in metatarsus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tibia - fibula .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in femur .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in photoreceptor layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal neural layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal pigmented epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal outer plexiform layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal outer nuclear layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic fiber layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal inner nuclear layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in inner limiting membrane .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal ganglion cell layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in outer limiting membrane .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal inner plexiform layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic tectum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharynx .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypaxial muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epaxial muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk musculature .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in absorptive cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in acid secreting cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in acinar cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in alkali secreting cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in barrier cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in barrier epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cementoblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in chondroblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in circulating cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in digestive enzyme secreting cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in early embryonic cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in morula cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gastrula cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ectodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in electrically active cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocrine cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in exocrine cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hatching gland cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in keratin accumulating cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ligament cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in merkel cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mucus secreting cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myelin accumulating cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuromast mantle cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuromast support cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleate erythrocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory epithelial support cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oxygen accumulating cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in paracrine cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pericyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in somatic stem cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in kidney .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in jaw muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in duct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in portion of organism substance .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in atypical epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in extraembryonic structure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in multilaminar epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in unilaminar epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in simple columnar epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in simple cuboidal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in simple squamous epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in axial skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal element .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cartilage element .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in membrane bone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermal bone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating skeletal element .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endochondral element .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endochondral bone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebra .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in process .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cell condensation .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cartilaginous condensation .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in craniofacial skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in craniofacial region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermal skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endoskeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in extracellular matrix .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fibrocartilage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dense regular connective tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ligament .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized extracellular matrix .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in osteoid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized bone tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in muscular system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in odontogenic papilla .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in odontoid tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oropharyngeal papilla .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oropharynx .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in perichondrium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in perichordal tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dentine .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - dentine .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vacuolated notochordal tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in distal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail tip .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ampullary nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastema .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal fin margin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral tail fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral fin margin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in suprablastoporal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sub - blastoporal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in migratory neural crest cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypothalamus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic chiasm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in suprachiasmatic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic vessel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic tendon .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r6 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ionocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural fold .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal pole .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in periocular region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic field .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - neural ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in preplacodal ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in profundal placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens transitional zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens fiber cell mass .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in horizontal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bipolar neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in amacrine cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal ganglion cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic tract .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - chordal neural plate border .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in chordal neural plate border .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural plate border .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating forelimb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating hindlimb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating tail .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating eye .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in eye photoreceptor cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal cone cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal rod cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal pole .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage i oocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage ii oocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage iii oocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage iv oocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage v oocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage vi oocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac jelly .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in apical ectodermal ridge .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in proliferative region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrioventricular canal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrioventricular canal endocardium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrioventricular valve leaflet .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac valve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . geniohyoideus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus abdominis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus cervicus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in auditory hair cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral crista .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior crista .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombic lip .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in saccular macula .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior crista .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sensory epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in outflow tract .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventricular outflow tract .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spiral septum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibulocochlear ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vascular plexus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior ventral blood island .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibular apparatus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hemangioblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vitelline vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myeloid cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endothelial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in erythroid cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail vasculature .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head vasculature .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal blood vessel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaloid blood vessel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaloid artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaloid vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaloid vascular plexus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior cerebral vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior cerebral vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cerebral vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in middle cerebral vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pulmonary artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in angioblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left omphalomesenteric vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in metencephalic artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in metencephalic vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ophthalmic vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vena capitis medialis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vena capitis lateralis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in subintestinal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesencephalic artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesencephalic vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nasociliary artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic choroid vascular plexus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac myocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pericardium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pericardial muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pericardial roof .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in primary heart field .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in secondary heart field .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior branchial crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior branchial crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocardial cushion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac neural crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vagal neural crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sacral neural crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ossicle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in appendicular ossicle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cellular bone tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cementum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in elastic cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in enamel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in enameloid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in odontode tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - enamel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - enameloid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sesamoid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gall bladder primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior placodal area .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior placodal area .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adenohypophyseal placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior neural ridge .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in infundibulum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in facial epibranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vagal epibranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in accessory nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypoglossal nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomeral nexus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in motor neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in palatoquadrate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratohyal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anteroventral lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in middle lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in transporting epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - ciliated epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral tegmentum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal tegmentum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral abdominal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fin crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior hypothalamus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in barbel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spiracle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in truncus arteriosus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bulbous arteriosis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in manicotto glandulare .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior hypothalamus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral ganglionic eminence .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in femur rudiment .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ischiadic vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ischiadic artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in femoral vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in maxillary artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r7 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebral artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epigastric artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in renal artery .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in facial vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cutaneous magnus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cutaneous femoral vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in postcaval vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in subclavian vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral abdominal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in jacobson's vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in subpallium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial ganglionic eminence .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal pouch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stylopod .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in zeugopod .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in autopod .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r8 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in interneuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior lateral line .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterodorsal lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in midbrain tegmentum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in migrating neuroblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in articular system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in axial ossicle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bone element .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal fin skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in coracoid bone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal fin skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in median fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in median fin skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in paired appendage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pectoral appendage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pelvic appendage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in scapula .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebral centrum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebral element .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal subdivision .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in limb segment .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb stylopod .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb stylopod .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb zeugopod .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb zeugopod .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hand .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in foot .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in eminentia thalami .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pallium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pretectum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prethalamus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in zona limitans intrathalamica .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in thalamus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in head mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in postmigratory neural crest cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stapes .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating limb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in joint region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in digit - joint region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in perichondrial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in interdigital region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in amputated tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in amputated fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in amputated limb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesenchymal stem cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular head muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyoid head muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial head muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypobranchial head muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in eye muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae articularis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae externus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . intermandibularis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . orbitohyoideus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . interhyoideus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . subarcualis rectus i .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . transversus anterior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . transversus ventralis ii .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . constrictor laryngis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . dilatator laryngis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in laryngeal muscle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus anterior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus posterior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus inferior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus superior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . obliquus inferior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . obliquus superior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in basihyal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratobranchial i .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratobranchial ii .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratobranchial iii .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratobranchial iv .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cornua trabecula .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in infrarostral .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus anterior hyalis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus articularis palatoquadrati .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in parachordal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus lateralis hyalis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in planum hypobranchiale .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in planum trabeculare anticum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus posterior hyalis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in palatoquadrati .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in suprarostral plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trabecula cranii .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial basket .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal stem cell region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal progenitor cell region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oculomotor motornucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal thalamus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trochlear motornucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in goblet cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mucociliary epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hatching gland primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in central vegetal yolk mass .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in apical mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in wound epidermis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in wound epidermis inner layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in wound epidermis outer layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in apical epithelial cap .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pseudoblastema .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fibrocellular pad .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in keratinocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in leydig cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive axial mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in proximal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in interdigital mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior lateral line ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk vasculature .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in central retina .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . intermandibularis primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . interhyoideus primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . transversus anterior primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . geniohyoideus primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus cervicis primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in laryngeal muscle primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus anterior primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus posterior primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus inferior primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus superior primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . obliquus inferior primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . obliquus superior primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial muscle primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in brachet's cleft .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral retina .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in subocular cartilage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in choroid .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in circumpharyngeal ridge .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in endolymphatic duct .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in serous membrane .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in organ cortex .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trabecula .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in trabecula carnea .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrial septum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sinus venosus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in periotic region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal myocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in smooth muscle myocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit 2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit 3 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epicardial precursor cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal stem cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuroendocrine cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in organ part .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epiphysis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in diaphysis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spike .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb bud tip .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb bud tip .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cleavage furrow .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pelvic girdle primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in iliac process .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in iliac process primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ilium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ischium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pubis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in postsacral vertebra .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rib .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in apoptotic cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mitotic cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in periosteum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in interdigital webbing .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in osteoblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in melanoblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindgut primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in midgut primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in foregut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior tectum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior tectum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastocoel floor .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in proximal tubule branch .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in premigratory neural crest cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in enteric neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory sensory neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 18 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in uveal tract .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in accessory olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in amygdala .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior amygdala .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior commissure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral funiculus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior thalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in basal forebrain .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in basal ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in central amygdala .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in central canal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in central nucleus of the thalamus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal column nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal habenular nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal pallidum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal pallium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal septum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in granule cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in habenula .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in isthmic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral amygdala .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral forebrain bundle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral funiculus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral pallium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral septum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in locus coeruleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial amygdala .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial pallium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial septum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mitral cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus accumbens .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus of the diagonal band .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pallidum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior commissure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal funiculus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in preoptic area .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in raphe nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in septum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in solitary tract .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in striatum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in subcommissural organ .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in subthalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in torus semicircularis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral habenular nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral pallidum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral pallium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuromere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prosomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prosomere 4 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prosomere 5 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prosomere 6 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mammilary region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tuberal region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural nucleus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in secretory epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - cililated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventrolateral neural tube .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsolateral neural tube .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rostral presomitic mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal presomitic mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neurogenic placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 18 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fin vasculature .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal fin vasculature .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral fin vasculature .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral blood island border .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior ventral blood island .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in matrix - based tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in acellular bone tissue .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in multicellular anatomical structure .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in larval intestinal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adult intestinal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in muller cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliated cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in spinal neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in paired dorsal aorta .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stromal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in interstitial cell of leydig .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepatocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in granular gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in macrophage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive rhombomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in forebrain - midbrain boundary .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuropil of the optic tectum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cell body layer of the optic tectum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in radial glial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural stem cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mauthner cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in eberth - kastschenko layer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in migrating macrophage .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior semicircular canal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral semicircular canal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior semicircular canal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal muscle satellite cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in schwann cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal crest of the endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal tuberal region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rostral tuberal region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus of the solitary tract .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prethalamus basal plate .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in parabrachial area .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retromammillary area .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus reticularis medialis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus reticularis superior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus reticularis inferior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral septum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in supraoptoparaventricular region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stria terminalis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stratum spongiosum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stratum compactum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomerular mesangial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomerular epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in proepicardium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in external coil of the small intestine .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in internal coil of the small intestine .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sciatic nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic disc .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in typhlosole .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in iliofibularis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in sulcus limitans of neural tube .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skin gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skin mucous gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mucous gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in skin seromucous gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in bowman's gland .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior entopeduncular region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in secondary myofiber .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsomedial edge of myotome .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventrolateral edge of myotome .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermomyotome .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in egg jelly .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in melanotrope .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prime meridian .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pulmonary epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral foregut .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal foregut .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior foregut .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior foregut .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in proximal stomach .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in distal stomach .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in astrocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in oligodendrocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in microglial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in enteroendocrine cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal involuting marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in monociliated cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in multiciliated cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lung bud .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars externa of the stapes .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars media of the stapes .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars interna of the stapes .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in footplate of the stapes .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fundus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in parotic crest .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . depressor mandibulae .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator scapulae superior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator scapulae inferior .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . petrohyoideus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . cucullaris .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tympanic annulus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in archenteron roof midline .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stomach body .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in antrum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pylorus .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardia .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prepollex .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prehallux .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in thoracic region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in alpha cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in beta cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in delta cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in epsilon cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in gamma cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left - right organizer primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left - right organizer .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in fin margin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in right blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left - dorsal blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in right - dorsal blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in left - ventral blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in right - ventral blastomere .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in monociliated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in multiciliated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in multiciliated cell precursor .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ascending interneuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in descending interneuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in commissural interneuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsolateral ascending neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsolateral commissural neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adenohypophysis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neurohypophysis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars distalis .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars nervosa .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars intermedia .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ethmoid bone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ethmoid region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral nasal prominence .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial nasal prominence .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in enteric nervous system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neutrophil .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac atrium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in apical region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in axial region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in basal region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in antero - dorsal region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in antero - ventral region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in postero - dorsal region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in postero - ventral region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in otic capsule .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in migrating myoblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in flexural organ .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in efferent neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in afferent neuron .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in larval alimentary system .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cloacal sphincter .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in small secretory cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal telencephalon .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intestinal stem cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in rostral notochord .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal notochord .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating lens .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in superficial layer of neurectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior neural fold .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in embryonic kidney .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adult kidney .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in neurenteric canal .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in migratory trunk neural crest cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral trunk .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior tail .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior dorsal fin .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior neuroectoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal tail .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal trunk .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in thrombocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in embryonic thrombocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in adult thrombocyte .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating pelvic girdle .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventro - lateral region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorso - lateral region .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in jaw muscle primordium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pial cell .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in pia mater .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in buccopharyngeal membrane .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in nasociliary nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in maxillary nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in frontal nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in foregut epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tracheal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in esophageal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in stomach epithelium .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior endoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrioventricular valve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in cephalic nerve .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in prootic bone .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal vein .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in periocular mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in roof of mouth .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in intercanthal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in outer fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in inner fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in otic vesicle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lower eyelid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retina .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in brain .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forebrain .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in telencephalon .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in diencephalon .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midbrain .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindbrain .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypophysis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in genital ridge .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spinal cord .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventricular zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in roof plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyoid crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epidermis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epidermis outer layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vitelline membrane .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cement gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hatching gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in zygote .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal cap .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal cap inner layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal cap outer layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epidermis inner layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuroectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuroectoderm outer layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuroectoderm inner layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - chordal neural plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chordal neural plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in notoplate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cement gland primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal aorta .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in notochord .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypochord .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presomitic mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in somite .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric nephrostome .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric duct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in heart .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myocardium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocardium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral blood island .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventro - lateral marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorso - lateral marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuting marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bottle cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastopore lip .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prechordal plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in circumblastoporal collar .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuted dorsal mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuted ventral mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intermediate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliary marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in upper blastopore lip .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lower blastopore lip .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in archenteron floor .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gastrocoel roof plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal arch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular arch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyoid arch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiovascular system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver diverticulum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midgut .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindgut .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in post - anal gut .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chordoneural hinge .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomeral mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in germ cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in embryo .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in capillary .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in respiratory system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trachea .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lung .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external gill .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bronchus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hematological system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bone marrow .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blood .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in alimentary system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in esophagus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stomach .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intestine .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in small intestine .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in large intestine .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver and biliary system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bile duct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gall bladder .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pancreas .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in exocrine pancreas .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesentery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peritoneum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in urogenital system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric kidney .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in genital system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in urinary system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ureter .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomerulus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric collecting duct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in urethra .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bladder .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in male genitalia .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in female genitalia .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in testis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocrine system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in islets of langerhans .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pineal gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thyroid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thymus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adrenal gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adrenal cortex .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adrenal medulla .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in parathyroid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in musculoskeletal system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bone tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in joint .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tendon .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in smooth muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermal system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nervous system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral nervous system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eye .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cornea .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in globe .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in conjunctiva .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclera .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iris .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliary body .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsolateral placode region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in auditory apparatus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tympanic disk .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in middle ear .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in inner ear .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in osseous labyrinth .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in utricle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sacculus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lagena .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in semicircular canal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal hemisphere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in axial mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastocoel anlage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastocoel roof .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastopore .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spinal ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sympathetic chain .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in auditory tube .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in auditory ossicle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central nervous system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in appendage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermatome .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in otic placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal part ,  early involuting .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trigeminal placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eye primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic vesicle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fasciculated network of fibrils .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in follicle cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in follicle layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in foregut .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in duodenum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ileum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rectum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepato - pancreatic duct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior cardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric duct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in colon .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cloaca .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural groove .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior neural tube .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - involuting marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oral evagination .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ovary .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in paraxial mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in perivitelline space .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pigment layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in polar body .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primary oogonium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 6 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypophyseal primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secondary oogonium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mouth primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in jacobson's organ .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory organ .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal part ,  late involuting .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal hemisphere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal yolk mass .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epibranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric nephron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in late proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in early distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in early proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in late distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric nephron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in floor plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior neural tube .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior neural fold .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral plate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epicardium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk neural crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sensorial layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in profundus ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypobranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left spleen primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right spleen primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spleen .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in coelomic epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mullerian duct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric early proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric late proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric early distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric late distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in heart primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocardial tube .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral aorta .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left channel of ventral aorta .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right channel of ventral aorta .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external carotid artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larval aorta .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 6 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior palatine artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vascular endothelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in arterial endothelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in venous endothelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in arteria iliaca communis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in occipitovertebral artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in arteria subclavia .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in internal carotid artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cerebral artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ophthalmic artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior palatine artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in arteria mesenterica posterior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right lymph heart .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left lymph heart .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in duct of cuvier .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lymph vessel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in omphalomesenteric vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in capillary system of liver .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in musculoabdominal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external jugular vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral postcardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in internal jugular vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior cardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial cardinal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interrenal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepatic vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior vena cava .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gastric vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subinterstitial vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepatic portal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pulmonary vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial abdominal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tendon fibroblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotomal cartilage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 6 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 7 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotomal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in notochordal sheath .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 8 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 9 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 10 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 11 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 12 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 13 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 14 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 15 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 16 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 17 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gasserian ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trigeminal ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rathke's pouch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tooth .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in infraorbital lateral line primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in supraorbital lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thyroid primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in taste bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tongue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gill primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ultimobranchial body .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver parenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in biliary tree .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pyloric sphincter .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in occipital lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in infraorbital lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyomandibular lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in middle lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal pancreatic bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal tail fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in unicellular gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in xanthophore .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iridophore .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in choroid fissure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic stalk .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial neural crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lung primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in circulatory system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blood vessel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stirnorgan .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in musculature of face .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in melanophore .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rectal diverticulum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in abdominal myoblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in connective tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior lymph sac .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proctodeum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in elastica externa .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in notochordal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in first pancreatic bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in second pancreatic bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral pancreatic bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric kidney .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical structure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical group .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in whole organism .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in female organism .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in male organism .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aorta .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primary germ layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in organism subdivision .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pigment cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myoblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fibroblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primary spermatogonium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spermatocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secondary spermatogonium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rohon - beard neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in limb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in surface structure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in digit .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in viscus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multi - tissue structure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in simple organ .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in compound organ component .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in compound organ .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in embryonic structure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in egg .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adipose tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fat body .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oviduct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stem cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hematopoietic stem cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chondrocranium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pectoral girdle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pelvic girdle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postcranial axial skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebral column .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cervical vertebra .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presacral vertebra .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sacral vertebra .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal vertebra .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in urostyle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larynx .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lower jaw .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in meckel's cartilage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in suspensorium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in upper jaw .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in seminiferous tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oculomotor nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trochlear nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trigeminal nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in abducens nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in facial nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibulocochlear nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glossopharyngeal nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vagus nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cerebellum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medulla oblongata .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spinal nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in transverse process .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of head somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of head somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of head somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of head somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of head somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 6 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 7 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 8 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 9 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 10 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 11 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 12 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 13 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 14 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 15 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 16 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 17 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amphibian papilla .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basilar papilla .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gonad .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spermatozoon .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primordial germ cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gamete .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spermatid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in immune system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larval immune system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adult immune system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lymphocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in natural killer cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in t cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in b cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thymocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical cluster .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in limb bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in acellular anatomical structure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basal lamina .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in solid compound organ .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cavitated compound organ .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in appendicular skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermatocranium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neurocranium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in orbital region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in occipital region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sphenoid region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in otic region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in splanchnocranium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyoid arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left atrium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right atrium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac ventricle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sensory system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibuloauditory system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gustatory system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visual system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lymphatic system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gut epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oral epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dental epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural tube .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chondrocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in podocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in carpus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in metacarpus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in radio - ulna .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in humerus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tarsus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in metatarsus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tibia - fibula .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in femur .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in photoreceptor layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal neural layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal pigmented epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal outer plexiform layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal outer nuclear layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic fiber layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal inner nuclear layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in inner limiting membrane .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal ganglion cell layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in outer limiting membrane .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal inner plexiform layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic tectum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharynx .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypaxial muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epaxial muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk musculature .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in absorptive cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in acid secreting cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in acinar cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in alkali secreting cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in barrier cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in barrier epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cementoblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chondroblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in circulating cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in digestive enzyme secreting cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in early embryonic cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in morula cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gastrula cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ectodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in electrically active cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocrine cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in exocrine cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hatching gland cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in keratin accumulating cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ligament cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in merkel cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mucus secreting cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myelin accumulating cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuromast mantle cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuromast support cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleate erythrocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory epithelial support cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oxygen accumulating cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in paracrine cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pericyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in somatic stem cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in kidney .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in jaw muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in duct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in portion of organism substance .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atypical epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in extraembryonic structure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multilaminar epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in unilaminar epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in simple columnar epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in simple cuboidal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in simple squamous epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in axial skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal element .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cartilage element .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in membrane bone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermal bone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating skeletal element .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endochondral element .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endochondral bone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebra .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in process .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cell condensation .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cartilaginous condensation .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in craniofacial skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in craniofacial region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermal skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endoskeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in extracellular matrix .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fibrocartilage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dense regular connective tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ligament .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized extracellular matrix .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in osteoid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized bone tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in muscular system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in odontogenic papilla .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in odontoid tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oropharyngeal papilla .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oropharynx .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in perichondrium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in perichordal tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dentine .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - dentine .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vacuolated notochordal tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in distal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail tip .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ampullary nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastema .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal fin margin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral tail fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral fin margin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in suprablastoporal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sub - blastoporal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migratory neural crest cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypothalamus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic chiasm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in suprachiasmatic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic vessel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic tendon .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r6 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ionocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural fold .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal pole .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periocular region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic field .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - neural ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in preplacodal ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in profundal placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens transitional zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens fiber cell mass .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in horizontal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bipolar neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amacrine cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal ganglion cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic tract .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - chordal neural plate border .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chordal neural plate border .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural plate border .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating forelimb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating hindlimb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating tail .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating eye .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eye photoreceptor cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal cone cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal rod cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal pole .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage i oocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage ii oocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage iii oocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage iv oocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage v oocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage vi oocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac jelly .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apical ectodermal ridge .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proliferative region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrioventricular canal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrioventricular canal endocardium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrioventricular valve leaflet .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac valve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . geniohyoideus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus abdominis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus cervicus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in auditory hair cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral crista .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior crista .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombic lip .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in saccular macula .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior crista .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sensory epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in outflow tract .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventricular outflow tract .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spiral septum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibulocochlear ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vascular plexus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior ventral blood island .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibular apparatus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hemangioblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vitelline vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myeloid cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endothelial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in erythroid cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail vasculature .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head vasculature .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal blood vessel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaloid blood vessel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaloid artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaloid vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaloid vascular plexus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior cerebral vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior cerebral vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cerebral vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in middle cerebral vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pulmonary artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in angioblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left omphalomesenteric vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in metencephalic artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in metencephalic vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ophthalmic vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vena capitis medialis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vena capitis lateralis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subintestinal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesencephalic artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesencephalic vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nasociliary artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic choroid vascular plexus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac myocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pericardium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pericardial muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pericardial roof .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primary heart field .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secondary heart field .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior branchial crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior branchial crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocardial cushion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac neural crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vagal neural crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sacral neural crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ossicle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in appendicular ossicle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cellular bone tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cementum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in elastic cartilage tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enamel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enameloid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in odontode tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - enamel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - enameloid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sesamoid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gall bladder primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior placodal area .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior placodal area .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adenohypophyseal placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior neural ridge .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in infundibulum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in facial epibranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vagal epibranchial placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in accessory nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypoglossal nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomeral nexus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in motor neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in palatoquadrate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratohyal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anteroventral lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in middle lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in transporting epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - ciliated epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral tegmentum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal tegmentum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral abdominal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fin crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior hypothalamus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in barbel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spiracle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in truncus arteriosus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bulbous arteriosis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in manicotto glandulare .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior hypothalamus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral ganglionic eminence .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in femur rudiment .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ischiadic vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ischiadic artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in femoral vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in maxillary artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r7 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebral artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epigastric artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in renal artery .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in facial vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cutaneous magnus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cutaneous femoral vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postcaval vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subclavian vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral abdominal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in jacobson's vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subpallium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial ganglionic eminence .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal pouch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stylopod .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in zeugopod .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in autopod .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r8 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interneuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior lateral line .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterodorsal lateral line placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midbrain tegmentum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migrating neuroblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in articular system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in axial ossicle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bone element .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal fin skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in coracoid bone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal fin skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in median fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in median fin skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in paired appendage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pectoral appendage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pelvic appendage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in scapula .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebral centrum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebral element .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal subdivision .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in limb segment .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb stylopod .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb stylopod .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb zeugopod .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb zeugopod .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hand .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in foot .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eminentia thalami .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pallium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pretectum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prethalamus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in zona limitans intrathalamica .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thalamus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postmigratory neural crest cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stapes .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating limb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in joint region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in digit - joint region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in perichondrial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interdigital region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amputated tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amputated fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amputated limb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesenchymal stem cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular head muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyoid head muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial head muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypobranchial head muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eye muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae articularis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae externus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . intermandibularis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . orbitohyoideus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . interhyoideus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . subarcualis rectus i .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . transversus anterior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . transversus ventralis ii .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . constrictor laryngis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . dilatator laryngis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in laryngeal muscle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus anterior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus posterior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus inferior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus superior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . obliquus inferior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . obliquus superior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basihyal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratobranchial i .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratobranchial ii .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratobranchial iii .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratobranchial iv .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cornua trabecula .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in infrarostral .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus anterior hyalis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus articularis palatoquadrati .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in parachordal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus lateralis hyalis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in planum hypobranchiale .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in planum trabeculare anticum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus posterior hyalis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in palatoquadrati .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in suprarostral plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trabecula cranii .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial basket .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal stem cell region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal progenitor cell region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oculomotor motornucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal thalamus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trochlear motornucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in goblet cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mucociliary epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hatching gland primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central vegetal yolk mass .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apical mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in wound epidermis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in wound epidermis inner layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in wound epidermis outer layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apical epithelial cap .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pseudoblastema .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fibrocellular pad .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in keratinocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in leydig cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive axial mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proximal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interdigital mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior lateral line ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk vasculature .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central retina .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . intermandibularis primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . interhyoideus primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . transversus anterior primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . geniohyoideus primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus cervicis primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in laryngeal muscle primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus anterior primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus posterior primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus inferior primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus superior primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . obliquus inferior primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . obliquus superior primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial muscle primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in brachet's cleft .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral retina .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subocular cartilage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in choroid .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in circumpharyngeal ridge .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endolymphatic duct .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in serous membrane .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in organ cortex .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trabecula .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trabecula carnea .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrial septum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sinus venosus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periotic region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal myocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in smooth muscle myocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit 2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit 3 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epicardial precursor cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal stem cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuroendocrine cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in organ part .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epiphysis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in diaphysis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spike .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb bud tip .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb bud tip .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cleavage furrow .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pelvic girdle primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iliac process .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iliac process primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ilium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ischium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pubis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postsacral vertebra .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rib .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apoptotic cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mitotic cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periosteum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interdigital webbing .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in osteoblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in melanoblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindgut primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midgut primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in foregut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior tectum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior tectum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastocoel floor .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proximal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in distal tubule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proximal tubule branch .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in premigratory neural crest cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enteric neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory sensory neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 18 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in uveal tract .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in accessory olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amygdala .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior amygdala .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior commissure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral funiculus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior thalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basal forebrain .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basal ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central amygdala .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central canal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central nucleus of the thalamus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal column nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal habenular nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal pallidum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal pallium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal septum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in granule cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in habenula .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in isthmic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral amygdala .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral forebrain bundle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral funiculus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral pallium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral septum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in locus coeruleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial amygdala .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial pallium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial septum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mitral cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus accumbens .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus of the diagonal band .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pallidum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior commissure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal funiculus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in preoptic area .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in raphe nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in septum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in solitary tract .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in striatum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subcommissural organ .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subthalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in torus semicircularis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral habenular nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral pallidum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral pallium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuromere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prosomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prosomere 4 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prosomere 5 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prosomere 6 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mammilary region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tuberal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural nucleus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secretory epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - cililated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventrolateral neural tube .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsolateral neural tube .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rostral presomitic mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal presomitic mesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neurogenic placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 18 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fin vasculature .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal fin vasculature .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral fin vasculature .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral blood island border .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior ventral blood island .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in matrix - based tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in acellular bone tissue .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multicellular anatomical structure .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larval intestinal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adult intestinal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in muller cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliated cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spinal neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in paired dorsal aorta .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stromal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interstitial cell of leydig .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepatocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in granular gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in macrophage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive rhombomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forebrain - midbrain boundary .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuropil of the optic tectum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cell body layer of the optic tectum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in radial glial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural stem cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural progenitor cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mauthner cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eberth - kastschenko layer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migrating macrophage .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior semicircular canal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral semicircular canal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior semicircular canal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal muscle satellite cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in schwann cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal crest of the endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal tuberal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rostral tuberal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus of the solitary tract .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prethalamus basal plate .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in parabrachial area .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retromammillary area .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus reticularis medialis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus reticularis superior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus reticularis inferior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral septum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in supraoptoparaventricular region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stria terminalis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stratum spongiosum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stratum compactum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomerular mesangial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomerular epithelial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proepicardium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external coil of the small intestine .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in internal coil of the small intestine .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sciatic nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic disc .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in typhlosole .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iliofibularis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sulcus limitans of neural tube .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skin gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skin mucous gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mucous gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skin seromucous gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bowman's gland .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior entopeduncular region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secondary myofiber .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsomedial edge of myotome .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventrolateral edge of myotome .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermomyotome .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in egg jelly .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in melanotrope .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prime meridian .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pulmonary epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral foregut .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal foregut .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior foregut .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior foregut .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proximal stomach .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in distal stomach .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in astrocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oligodendrocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in microglial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enteroendocrine cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal involuting marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in monociliated cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multiciliated cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lung bud .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars externa of the stapes .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars media of the stapes .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars interna of the stapes .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in footplate of the stapes .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fundus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in parotic crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . depressor mandibulae .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator scapulae superior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator scapulae inferior .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . petrohyoideus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . cucullaris .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tympanic annulus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in archenteron roof midline .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stomach body .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in antrum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pylorus .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardia .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prepollex .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prehallux .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular arch skeleton .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thoracic region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in alpha cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in beta cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in delta cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epsilon cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gamma cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left - right organizer primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left - right organizer .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fin margin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left - dorsal blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right - dorsal blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left - ventral blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right - ventral blastomere .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in monociliated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multiciliated epidermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multiciliated cell precursor .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ascending interneuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in descending interneuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in commissural interneuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsolateral ascending neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsolateral commissural neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adenohypophysis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neurohypophysis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars distalis .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars nervosa .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars intermedia .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ethmoid bone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ethmoid region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral nasal prominence .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial nasal prominence .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enteric nervous system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neutrophil .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac atrium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apical region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in axial region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in antero - dorsal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in antero - ventral region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postero - dorsal region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postero - ventral region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in otic capsule .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migrating myoblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in flexural organ .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in efferent neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in afferent neuron .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larval alimentary system .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cloacal sphincter .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in small secretory cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal telencephalon .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intestinal stem cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rostral notochord .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal notochord .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating lens .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in superficial layer of neurectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior neural fold .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in embryonic kidney .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adult kidney .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neurenteric canal .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migratory trunk neural crest cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior hindgut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral trunk .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior tail .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior dorsal fin .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior neuroectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal tail .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal trunk .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thrombocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in embryonic thrombocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adult thrombocyte .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating pelvic girdle .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventro - lateral region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorso - lateral region .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in jaw muscle primordium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pial cell .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pia mater .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in buccopharyngeal membrane .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nasociliary nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in maxillary nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in frontal nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in foregut epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tracheal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in esophageal epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stomach epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior endomesoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrioventricular valve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cephalic nerve .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prootic bone .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal vein .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periocular mesenchyme .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in roof of mouth .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intercanthal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in outer fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in inner fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in otic vesicle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lower eyelid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retina .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in brain .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forebrain .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in telencephalon .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in diencephalon .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in midbrain .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindbrain .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypophysis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in genital ridge .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spinal cord .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventricular zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in roof plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyoid crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epidermis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epidermis outer layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vitelline membrane .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliated epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cement gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hatching gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in zygote .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal cap .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal cap inner layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal cap outer layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epidermis inner layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuroectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuroectoderm outer layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuroectoderm inner layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - chordal neural plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in chordal neural plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in notoplate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cement gland primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal aorta .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in notochord .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypochord .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in presomitic mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in somite .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric nephrostome .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric duct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in heart .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myocardium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocardium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral blood island .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventro - lateral marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorso - lateral marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuting marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bottle cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastopore lip .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prechordal plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in circumblastoporal collar .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuted dorsal mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in involuted ventral mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intermediate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliary marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in upper blastopore lip .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lower blastopore lip .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in archenteron floor .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gastrocoel roof plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal arch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular arch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyoid arch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiovascular system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver diverticulum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in midgut .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindgut .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in post - anal gut .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in chordoneural hinge .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomeral mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in germ cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in embryo .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in capillary .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in respiratory system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trachea .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lung .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in external gill .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bronchus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hematological system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bone marrow .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blood .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in alimentary system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in esophagus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stomach .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intestine .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in small intestine .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in large intestine .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver and biliary system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bile duct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gall bladder .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pancreas .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in exocrine pancreas .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesentery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in peritoneum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in urogenital system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric kidney .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in genital system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in urinary system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ureter .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomerulus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric collecting duct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in urethra .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bladder .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in male genitalia .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in female genitalia .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in testis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocrine system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in islets of langerhans .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pineal gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in thyroid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in thymus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adrenal gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adrenal cortex .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adrenal medulla .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in parathyroid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in musculoskeletal system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bone tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in joint .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tendon .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in smooth muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermal system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nervous system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral nervous system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in eye .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cornea .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in globe .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in conjunctiva .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclera .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in iris .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliary body .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsolateral placode region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in auditory apparatus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tympanic disk .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in middle ear .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in inner ear .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in osseous labyrinth .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in utricle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sacculus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lagena .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in semicircular canal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal hemisphere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in axial mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastocoel anlage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastocoel roof .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastopore .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spinal ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sympathetic chain .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in auditory tube .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in auditory ossicle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in central nervous system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in appendage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermatome .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in otic placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal part ,  early involuting .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trigeminal placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in eye primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic vesicle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fasciculated network of fibrils .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in follicle cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in follicle layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in foregut .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in duodenum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ileum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rectum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepato - pancreatic duct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior cardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric duct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in colon .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cloaca .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural groove .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - involuting marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oral evagination .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ovary .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in paraxial mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in perivitelline space .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pigment layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in polar body .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in primary oogonium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch 6 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypophyseal primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in secondary oogonium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mouth primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in jacobson's organ .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory organ .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal part ,  late involuting .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal hemisphere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal yolk mass .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in visceral pouch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epibranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric nephron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in late proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in early distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in early proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in late distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric nephron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in central endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in floor plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior neural fold .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral plate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epicardium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sensorial layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in profundus ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypobranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left spleen primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in right spleen primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spleen .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in coelomic epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mullerian duct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric early proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric late proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric early distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesonephric late distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in heart primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocardial tube .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral aorta .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left channel of ventral aorta .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in right channel of ventral aorta .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in external carotid artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in larval aorta .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 6 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior palatine artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in aortic arch 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vascular endothelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in arterial endothelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in venous endothelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in arteria iliaca communis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in occipitovertebral artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in arteria subclavia .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in internal carotid artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cerebral artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ophthalmic artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior palatine artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in arteria mesenterica posterior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in right lymph heart .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left lymph heart .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in duct of cuvier .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lymph vessel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in omphalomesenteric vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in capillary system of liver .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in musculoabdominal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in external jugular vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral postcardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in internal jugular vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior cardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial cardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in interrenal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepatic vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior vena cava .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gastric vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in subinterstitial vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepatic portal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pulmonary vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial abdominal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tendon fibroblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotomal cartilage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 6 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 7 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotomal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in notochordal sheath .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 8 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 9 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 10 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 11 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 12 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk somite 13 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 14 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 15 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 16 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 17 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gasserian ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trigeminal ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rathke's pouch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tooth .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in infraorbital lateral line primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in supraorbital lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in thyroid primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in taste bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tongue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gill primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ultimobranchial body .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver parenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in biliary tree .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pyloric sphincter .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in occipital lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in infraorbital lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyomandibular lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in middle lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal pancreatic bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal tail fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in unicellular gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in xanthophore .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in iridophore .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in choroid fissure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic stalk .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lung primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in circulatory system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blood vessel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stirnorgan .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in musculature of face .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in melanophore .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rectal diverticulum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in abdominal myoblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in connective tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior lymph sac .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in proctodeum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in elastica externa .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in notochordal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in first pancreatic bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in second pancreatic bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral pancreatic bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric kidney .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical structure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical group .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in whole organism .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in female organism .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in male organism .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in aorta .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in primary germ layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in organism subdivision .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pigment cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myoblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fibroblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in primary spermatogonium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spermatocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in secondary spermatogonium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rohon - beard neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in limb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in surface structure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in digit .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in viscus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in multi - tissue structure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in simple organ .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in compound organ component .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in compound organ .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in embryonic structure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in egg .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adipose tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fat body .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oviduct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hematopoietic stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in chondrocranium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pectoral girdle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pelvic girdle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in postcranial axial skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebral column .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cervical vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in presacral vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sacral vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in urostyle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in larynx .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lower jaw .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in meckel's cartilage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in suspensorium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in upper jaw .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in seminiferous tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oculomotor nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trochlear nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trigeminal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in abducens nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in facial nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibulocochlear nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glossopharyngeal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vagus nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cerebellum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medulla oblongata .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spinal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in transverse process .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of head somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of head somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of head somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of head somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of head somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 6 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 7 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 8 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 9 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 10 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 11 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 12 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of trunk somite 13 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 14 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 15 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 16 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 17 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in amphibian papilla .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in basilar papilla .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gonad .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spermatozoon .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in primordial germ cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gamete .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spermatid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in immune system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in larval immune system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adult immune system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lymphocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in natural killer cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in t cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in b cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in thymocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical cluster .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in limb bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in acellular anatomical structure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in basal lamina .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in solid compound organ .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cavitated compound organ .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in appendicular skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermatocranium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neurocranium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in orbital region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in occipital region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sphenoid region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in otic region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in splanchnocranium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyoid arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial arch skeleton 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left atrium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in right atrium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac ventricle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sensory system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibuloauditory system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gustatory system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in visual system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lymphatic system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gut epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oral epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dental epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in chondrocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in podocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in carpus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in metacarpus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in radio - ulna .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in humerus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tarsus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in metatarsus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tibia - fibula .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in femur .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in photoreceptor layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal neural layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal pigmented epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal outer plexiform layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal outer nuclear layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic fiber layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal inner nuclear layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in inner limiting membrane .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal ganglion cell layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in outer limiting membrane .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal inner plexiform layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic tectum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharynx .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypaxial muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epaxial muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk musculature .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in absorptive cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in acid secreting cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in acinar cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in alkali secreting cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in barrier cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in barrier epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cementoblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in chondroblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in circulating cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in digestive enzyme secreting cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in early embryonic cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in morula cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gastrula cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ectodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in electrically active cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in exocrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hatching gland cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in keratin accumulating cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ligament cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in merkel cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mucus secreting cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myelin accumulating cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuromast mantle cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuromast support cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleate erythrocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory epithelial support cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oxygen accumulating cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in paracrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pericyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in somatic stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in liver primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in kidney .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in jaw muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in duct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in portion of organism substance .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anatomical line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in atypical epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in extraembryonic structure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in multilaminar epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in unilaminar epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in simple columnar epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in simple cuboidal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in simple squamous epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in axial skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal element .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cartilage element .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in membrane bone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermal bone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating skeletal element .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endochondral element .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endochondral bone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in process .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cell condensation .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cartilaginous condensation .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in craniofacial skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in craniofacial region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermal skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endoskeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in extracellular matrix .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fibrocartilage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaline cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dense regular connective tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ligament .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in avascular gag - rich matrix .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized extracellular matrix .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in osteoid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized bone tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in muscular system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in odontogenic papilla .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in odontoid tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oropharyngeal papilla .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oropharynx .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in perichondrium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in perichordal tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dentine .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - dentine .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vacuolated notochordal tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mineralized cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in distal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail tip .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ampullary nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastema .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal fin margin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral tail fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral fin margin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in suprablastoporal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sub - blastoporal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in migratory neural crest cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypothalamus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic chiasm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in suprachiasmatic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic vessel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic tendon .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r6 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ionocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural fold .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in animal pole .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in periocular region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic field .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - neural ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in preplacodal ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in profundal placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens transitional zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lens fiber cell mass .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in horizontal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bipolar neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in amacrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal ganglion cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic tract .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - chordal neural plate border .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in chordal neural plate border .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural plate border .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pronephric tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating forelimb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating hindlimb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating tail .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating eye .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in eye photoreceptor cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal cone cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal rod cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vegetal pole .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage i oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage ii oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage iii oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage iv oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage v oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stage vi oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac jelly .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in apical ectodermal ridge .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in proliferative region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrioventricular canal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrioventricular canal endocardium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrioventricular valve leaflet .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac valve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . geniohyoideus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus abdominis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus cervicus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in auditory hair cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral crista .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior crista .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombic lip .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in saccular macula .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior crista .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sensory epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in outflow tract .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventricular outflow tract .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spiral septum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibulocochlear ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vascular plexus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior ventral blood island .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vestibular apparatus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hemangioblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vitelline vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myeloid cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endothelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in erythroid cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal blood vessel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaloid blood vessel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaloid artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaloid vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyaloid vascular plexus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior cerebral vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior cerebral vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cerebral vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in middle cerebral vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pulmonary artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in angioblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intersomitic artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left omphalomesenteric vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in metencephalic artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in metencephalic vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ophthalmic vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vena capitis medialis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vena capitis lateralis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in subintestinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesencephalic artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesencephalic vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nasociliary artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic choroid vascular plexus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac myocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pericardium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pericardial muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pericardial roof .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in primary heart field .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in secondary heart field .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior branchial crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior branchial crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endocardial cushion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vagal neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sacral neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ossicle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in appendicular ossicle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cellular bone tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cementum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in elastic cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in enamel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in enameloid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in odontode tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - enamel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pre - enameloid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sesamoid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gall bladder primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior placodal area .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior placodal area .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adenohypophyseal placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior neural ridge .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in infundibulum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in facial epibranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vagal epibranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in accessory nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypoglossal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomeral nexus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in motor neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in palatoquadrate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratohyal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anteroventral lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in middle lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in transporting epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - ciliated epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral tegmentum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal tegmentum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral abdominal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fin crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior hypothalamus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in barbel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spiracle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in truncus arteriosus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bulbous arteriosis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in manicotto glandulare .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior hypothalamus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral ganglionic eminence .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in femur rudiment .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ischiadic vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ischiadic artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in femoral vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in maxillary artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r7 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebral artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epigastric artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in renal artery .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in facial vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cutaneous magnus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cutaneous femoral vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in postcaval vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in subclavian vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral abdominal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in jacobson's vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in subpallium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial ganglionic eminence .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal pouch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stylopod .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in zeugopod .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in autopod .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r8 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in interneuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterodorsal lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in midbrain tegmentum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in migrating neuroblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in articular system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in axial ossicle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bone element .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal fin skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in coracoid bone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal fin skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in median fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in median fin skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in paired appendage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pectoral appendage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pelvic appendage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in scapula .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebral centrum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in vertebral element .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal subdivision .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in limb segment .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb stylopod .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb stylopod .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb zeugopod .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb zeugopod .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hand .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in foot .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in eminentia thalami .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pallium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pretectum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prethalamus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in zona limitans intrathalamica .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in thalamus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in head mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in postmigratory neural crest cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stapes .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating limb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in joint region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in digit - joint region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in perichondrial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in interdigital region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in amputated tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in amputated fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in amputated limb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mesenchymal stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular head muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hyoid head muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial head muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hypobranchial head muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in eye muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae articularis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae externus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . intermandibularis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . orbitohyoideus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . interhyoideus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . subarcualis rectus i .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . transversus anterior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . transversus ventralis ii .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . constrictor laryngis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . dilatator laryngis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in laryngeal muscle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus anterior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus posterior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus inferior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus superior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . obliquus inferior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . obliquus superior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in basihyal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratobranchial i .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratobranchial ii .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratobranchial iii .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ceratobranchial iv .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cornua trabecula .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in infrarostral .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus anterior hyalis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus articularis palatoquadrati .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in parachordal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus lateralis hyalis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in planum hypobranchiale .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in planum trabeculare anticum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus posterior hyalis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in palatoquadrati .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in suprarostral plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trabecula cranii .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in branchial basket .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal stem cell region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal progenitor cell region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oculomotor motornucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal thalamus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trochlear motornucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in goblet cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mucociliary epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hatching gland primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in central vegetal yolk mass .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in apical mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in wound epidermis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in wound epidermis inner layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in wound epidermis outer layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in apical epithelial cap .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pseudoblastema .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fibrocellular pad .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in keratinocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in leydig cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive axial mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in proximal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in interdigital mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb digit 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior lateral line ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trunk vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in central retina .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . intermandibularis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . interhyoideus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . transversus anterior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . geniohyoideus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus cervicis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in laryngeal muscle primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus anterior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus posterior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus inferior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . rectus superior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . obliquus inferior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . obliquus superior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cranial muscle primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in brachet's cleft .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral line ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral retina .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in subocular cartilage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in choroid .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in circumpharyngeal ridge .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rhombomere r1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in endolymphatic duct .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in serous membrane .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in organ cortex .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trabecula .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in trabecula carnea .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrial septum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sinus venosus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in periotic region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal myocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in smooth muscle myocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit 2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit 3 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb digit 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epicardial precursor cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuroendocrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in organ part .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epiphysis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in diaphysis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spike .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forelimb bud tip .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindlimb bud tip .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cleavage furrow .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pelvic girdle primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in iliac process .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in iliac process primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ilium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ischium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pubis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in postsacral vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rib .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in apoptotic cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mitotic cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in periosteum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in interdigital webbing .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in osteoblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in melanoblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindgut primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in midgut primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in foregut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior tectum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior tectum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastocoel floor .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliated non - epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in proximal tubule branch .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in premigratory neural crest cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in enteric neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pharyngeal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory sensory neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tail somite 18 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in uveal tract .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in accessory olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior commissure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral funiculus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior thalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in basal forebrain .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in basal ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in central amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in central canal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in central nucleus of the thalamus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal column nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal habenular nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal pallidum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal pallium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal septum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in granule cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in habenula .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in isthmic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral forebrain bundle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral funiculus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral pallium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral septum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in locus coeruleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial pallium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial septum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mitral cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus accumbens .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus of the diagonal band .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pallidum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior commissure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal funiculus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in preoptic area .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in raphe nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in septum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in solitary tract .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in striatum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in subcommissural organ .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in subthalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in torus semicircularis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral habenular nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral pallidum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral pallium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuromere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prosomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prosomere 4 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prosomere 5 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prosomere 6 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mammilary region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tuberal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in secretory epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - cililated epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventrolateral neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsolateral neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rostral presomitic mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal presomitic mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neurogenic placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in myotome of tail somite 18 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fin vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal fin vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral fin vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral blood island border .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior ventral blood island .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in matrix - based tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in acellular bone tissue .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in multicellular anatomical structure .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in larval intestinal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adult intestinal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in muller cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ciliated cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in spinal neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in paired dorsal aorta .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stromal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in interstitial cell of leydig .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hepatocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in granular gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in olfactory epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in macrophage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in presumptive rhombomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in forebrain - midbrain boundary .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neuropil of the optic tectum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cell body layer of the optic tectum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in radial glial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neural progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mauthner cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in eberth - kastschenko layer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in migrating macrophage .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior semicircular canal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral semicircular canal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior semicircular canal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skeletal muscle satellite cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in schwann cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal crest of the endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal tuberal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rostral tuberal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus of the solitary tract .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prethalamus basal plate .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in parabrachial area .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retromammillary area .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus reticularis medialis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus reticularis superior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nucleus reticularis inferior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral septum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in supraoptoparaventricular region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stria terminalis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stratum spongiosum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stratum compactum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomerular mesangial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in glomerular epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in proepicardium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in external coil of the small intestine .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in internal coil of the small intestine .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sciatic nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in optic disc .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in typhlosole .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in iliofibularis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in sulcus limitans of neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skin gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skin mucous gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mucous gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in skin seromucous gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in bowman's gland .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior entopeduncular region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in secondary myofiber .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsomedial edge of myotome .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventrolateral edge of myotome .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dermomyotome .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in egg jelly .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in melanotrope .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prime meridian .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pulmonary epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral foregut .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal foregut .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior foregut .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior foregut .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in proximal stomach .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in distal stomach .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in astrocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in oligodendrocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in microglial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in enteroendocrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal involuting marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in monociliated cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in multiciliated cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lung bud .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars externa of the stapes .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars media of the stapes .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars interna of the stapes .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in footplate of the stapes .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fundus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in parotic crest .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . depressor mandibulae .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator scapulae superior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . levator scapulae inferior .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . petrohyoideus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in m . cucullaris .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tympanic annulus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in archenteron roof midline .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stomach body .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in antrum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pylorus .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardia .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prepollex .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prehallux .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in thoracic region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in alpha cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in beta cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in delta cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in epsilon cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in gamma cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left - right organizer primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left - right organizer .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in fin margin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in right blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left - dorsal blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in right - dorsal blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in left - ventral blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in right - ventral blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in monociliated epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in multiciliated epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in multiciliated cell precursor .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ascending interneuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in descending interneuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in commissural interneuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsolateral ascending neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsolateral commissural neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adenohypophysis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neurohypophysis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars distalis .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars nervosa .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pars intermedia .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ethmoid bone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ethmoid region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral nasal prominence .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial nasal prominence .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in enteric nervous system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neutrophil .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cardiac atrium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in peripheral ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in apical region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in axial region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in basal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in medial region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in antero - dorsal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in antero - ventral region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in postero - dorsal region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in postero - ventral region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in otic capsule .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in migrating myoblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in flexural organ .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in efferent neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in afferent neuron .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in larval alimentary system .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cloacal sphincter .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in small secretory cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal telencephalon .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intestinal stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in rostral notochord .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in caudal notochord .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating lens .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in superficial layer of neurectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior neural fold .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in embryonic kidney .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adult kidney .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in neurenteric canal .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in migratory trunk neural crest cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral trunk .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior tail .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior dorsal fin .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior neuroectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal tail .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal trunk .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in thrombocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in embryonic thrombocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in adult thrombocyte .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in regenerating pelvic girdle .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventro - lateral region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorso - lateral region .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in jaw muscle primordium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pial cell .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in pia mater .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in buccopharyngeal membrane .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in nasociliary nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in maxillary nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in mandibular nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in frontal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in foregut epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tracheal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in esophageal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in stomach epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in dorsal endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in ventral endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in atrioventricular valve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in cephalic nerve .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in prootic bone .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in retinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in periocular mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in roof of mouth .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in intercanthal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in outer fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in inner fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in otic vesicle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lower eyelid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retina .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in brain .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forebrain .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in telencephalon .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in diencephalon .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midbrain .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindbrain .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypophysis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in genital ridge .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spinal cord .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventricular zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in roof plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyoid crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epidermis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epidermis outer layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vitelline membrane .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliated epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cement gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hatching gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in zygote .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal cap .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal cap inner layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal cap outer layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epidermis inner layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuroectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuroectoderm outer layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuroectoderm inner layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - chordal neural plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chordal neural plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in notoplate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cement gland primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal aorta .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in notochord .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypochord .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presomitic mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in somite .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric nephrostome .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric duct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in heart .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myocardium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocardium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral blood island .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventro - lateral marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorso - lateral marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuting marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bottle cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastopore lip .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prechordal plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in circumblastoporal collar .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuted dorsal mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in involuted ventral mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intermediate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliary marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in upper blastopore lip .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lower blastopore lip .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in archenteron floor .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gastrocoel roof plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal arch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular arch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyoid arch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiovascular system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver diverticulum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midgut .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindgut .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in post - anal gut .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chordoneural hinge .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomeral mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in germ cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in embryo .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in capillary .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in respiratory system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trachea .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lung .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external gill .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bronchus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hematological system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bone marrow .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blood .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in alimentary system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in esophagus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stomach .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intestine .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in small intestine .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in large intestine .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver and biliary system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bile duct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gall bladder .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pancreas .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in exocrine pancreas .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesentery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peritoneum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in urogenital system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric kidney .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in genital system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in urinary system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ureter .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomerulus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric collecting duct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in urethra .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bladder .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in male genitalia .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in female genitalia .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in testis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocrine system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in islets of langerhans .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pineal gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thyroid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thymus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adrenal gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adrenal cortex .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adrenal medulla .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in parathyroid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in musculoskeletal system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bone tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in joint .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tendon .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in smooth muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermal system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nervous system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral nervous system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eye .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cornea .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in globe .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in conjunctiva .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclera .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iris .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliary body .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsolateral placode region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in auditory apparatus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tympanic disk .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in middle ear .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in inner ear .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in osseous labyrinth .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in utricle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sacculus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lagena .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in semicircular canal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal hemisphere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in axial mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastocoel anlage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastocoel roof .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastopore .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spinal ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sympathetic chain .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in auditory tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in auditory ossicle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central nervous system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in appendage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermatome .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in otic placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal part ,  early involuting .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trigeminal placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eye primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic vesicle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fasciculated network of fibrils .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in follicle cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in follicle layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in foregut .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in duodenum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ileum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rectum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepato - pancreatic duct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior cardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric duct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in colon .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cloaca .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural groove .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - involuting marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oral evagination .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ovary .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in paraxial mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in perivitelline space .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pigment layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in polar body .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primary oogonium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch 6 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypophyseal primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secondary oogonium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mouth primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in jacobson's organ .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory organ .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal part ,  late involuting .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal hemisphere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal yolk mass .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visceral pouch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epibranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric nephron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in late proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in early distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in early proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in late distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric nephron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in floor plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior neural fold .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral plate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epicardium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sensorial layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in profundus ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypobranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left spleen primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right spleen primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spleen .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in coelomic epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mullerian duct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric early proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric late proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric early distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesonephric late distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in heart primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocardial tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral aorta .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left channel of ventral aorta .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right channel of ventral aorta .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external carotid artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larval aorta .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 6 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior palatine artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aortic arch 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vascular endothelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in arterial endothelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in venous endothelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in arteria iliaca communis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in occipitovertebral artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in arteria subclavia .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in internal carotid artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cerebral artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ophthalmic artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior palatine artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in arteria mesenterica posterior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right lymph heart .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left lymph heart .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in duct of cuvier .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lymph vessel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in omphalomesenteric vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in capillary system of liver .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in musculoabdominal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external jugular vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral postcardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in internal jugular vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior cardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial cardinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interrenal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepatic vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior vena cava .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gastric vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subinterstitial vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepatic portal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pulmonary vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial abdominal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tendon fibroblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotomal cartilage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 6 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 7 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotomal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in notochordal sheath .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 8 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 9 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 10 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 11 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 12 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk somite 13 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 14 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 15 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 16 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 17 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gasserian ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trigeminal ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rathke's pouch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tooth .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in infraorbital lateral line primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in supraorbital lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thyroid primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in taste bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tongue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gill primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ultimobranchial body .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver parenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in biliary tree .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pyloric sphincter .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in occipital lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in infraorbital lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyomandibular lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in middle lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal pancreatic bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal tail fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in unicellular gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in xanthophore .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iridophore .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in choroid fissure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic stalk .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lung primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in circulatory system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blood vessel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stirnorgan .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in musculature of face .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in melanophore .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rectal diverticulum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in abdominal myoblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in connective tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior lymph sac .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proctodeum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in elastica externa .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in notochordal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in first pancreatic bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in second pancreatic bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral pancreatic bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric kidney .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical structure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical group .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in whole organism .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in female organism .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in male organism .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in aorta .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primary germ layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in organism subdivision .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pigment cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myoblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fibroblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primary spermatogonium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spermatocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secondary spermatogonium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rohon - beard neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in limb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in surface structure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in digit .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in viscus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multi - tissue structure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in simple organ .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in compound organ component .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in compound organ .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in embryonic structure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in egg .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adipose tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fat body .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oviduct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hematopoietic stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chondrocranium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pectoral girdle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pelvic girdle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postcranial axial skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebral column .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cervical vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presacral vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sacral vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in urostyle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larynx .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lower jaw .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in meckel's cartilage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in suspensorium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in upper jaw .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in seminiferous tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oculomotor nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trochlear nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trigeminal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in abducens nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in facial nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibulocochlear nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glossopharyngeal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vagus nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cerebellum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medulla oblongata .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spinal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in transverse process .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of head somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of head somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of head somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of head somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of head somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 6 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 7 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 8 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 9 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 10 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 11 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 12 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of trunk somite 13 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 14 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 15 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 16 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 17 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amphibian papilla .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basilar papilla .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gonad .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spermatozoon .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primordial germ cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gamete .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spermatid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in immune system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larval immune system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adult immune system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lymphocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in natural killer cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in t cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in b cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thymocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical cluster .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in limb bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in acellular anatomical structure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basal lamina .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in solid compound organ .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cavitated compound organ .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in appendicular skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermatocranium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neurocranium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in orbital region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in occipital region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sphenoid region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in otic region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in splanchnocranium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyoid arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial arch skeleton 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left atrium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right atrium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac ventricle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sensory system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibuloauditory system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gustatory system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in visual system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lymphatic system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gut epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oral epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dental epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chondrocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in podocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in carpus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in metacarpus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in radio - ulna .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in humerus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tarsus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in metatarsus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tibia - fibula .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in femur .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in photoreceptor layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal neural layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal pigmented epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal outer plexiform layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal outer nuclear layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic fiber layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal inner nuclear layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in inner limiting membrane .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal ganglion cell layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in outer limiting membrane .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal inner plexiform layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic tectum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharynx .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypaxial muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epaxial muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk musculature .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in absorptive cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in acid secreting cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in acinar cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in alkali secreting cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in barrier cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in barrier epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cementoblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chondroblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in circulating cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in digestive enzyme secreting cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in early embryonic cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in morula cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gastrula cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ectodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in electrically active cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in exocrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hatching gland cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in keratin accumulating cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ligament cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in merkel cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mucus secreting cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myelin accumulating cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuromast mantle cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuromast support cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleate erythrocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory epithelial support cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oxygen accumulating cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in paracrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pericyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in somatic stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in liver primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in kidney .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in jaw muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in duct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in portion of organism substance .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anatomical line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atypical epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in extraembryonic structure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multilaminar epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in unilaminar epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in simple columnar epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in simple cuboidal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in simple squamous epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in axial skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal element .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cartilage element .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in membrane bone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermal bone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating skeletal element .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endochondral element .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endochondral bone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in process .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cell condensation .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cartilaginous condensation .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in craniofacial skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in craniofacial region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermal skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endoskeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in extracellular matrix .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fibrocartilage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaline cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dense regular connective tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ligament .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in avascular gag - rich matrix .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized extracellular matrix .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in osteoid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized bone tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in muscular system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in odontogenic papilla .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in odontoid tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oropharyngeal papilla .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oropharynx .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in perichondrium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in perichordal tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dentine .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - dentine .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vacuolated notochordal tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mineralized cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in distal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail tip .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ampullary nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastema .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal fin margin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral tail fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral fin margin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in suprablastoporal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sub - blastoporal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migratory neural crest cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypothalamus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic chiasm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in suprachiasmatic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic vessel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic tendon .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r6 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ionocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural fold .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in animal pole .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periocular region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic field .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - neural ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in preplacodal ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in profundal placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens transitional zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lens fiber cell mass .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in horizontal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bipolar neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amacrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal ganglion cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic tract .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - chordal neural plate border .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chordal neural plate border .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural plate border .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pronephric tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating forelimb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating hindlimb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating tail .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating eye .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eye photoreceptor cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal cone cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal rod cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vegetal pole .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage i oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage ii oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage iii oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage iv oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage v oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stage vi oocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac jelly .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apical ectodermal ridge .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proliferative region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrioventricular canal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrioventricular canal endocardium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrioventricular valve leaflet .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac valve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . geniohyoideus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus abdominis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus cervicus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in auditory hair cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral crista .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior crista .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombic lip .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in saccular macula .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior crista .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sensory epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in outflow tract .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventricular outflow tract .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spiral septum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibulocochlear ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vascular plexus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior ventral blood island .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vestibular apparatus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hemangioblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vitelline vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myeloid cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endothelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in erythroid cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal blood vessel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaloid blood vessel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaloid artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaloid vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyaloid vascular plexus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior cerebral vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior cerebral vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cerebral vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in middle cerebral vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pulmonary artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in angioblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intersomitic artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left omphalomesenteric vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in metencephalic artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in metencephalic vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ophthalmic vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vena capitis medialis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vena capitis lateralis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subintestinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesencephalic artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesencephalic vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nasociliary artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic choroid vascular plexus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac myocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pericardium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pericardial muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pericardial roof .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in primary heart field .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secondary heart field .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior branchial crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior branchial crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endocardial cushion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vagal neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sacral neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ossicle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in appendicular ossicle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cellular bone tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cementum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in elastic cartilage tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enamel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enameloid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in odontode tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - enamel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pre - enameloid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sesamoid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gall bladder primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior placodal area .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior placodal area .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adenohypophyseal placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior neural ridge .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in infundibulum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in facial epibranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vagal epibranchial placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in accessory nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypoglossal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomeral nexus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in motor neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in palatoquadrate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratohyal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anteroventral lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in middle lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in transporting epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - ciliated epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral tegmentum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal tegmentum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral abdominal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fin crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior hypothalamus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in barbel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spiracle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in truncus arteriosus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bulbous arteriosis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in manicotto glandulare .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior hypothalamus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral ganglionic eminence .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in femur rudiment .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ischiadic vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ischiadic artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in femoral vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in maxillary artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r7 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebral artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epigastric artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in renal artery .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in facial vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cutaneous magnus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cutaneous femoral vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postcaval vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subclavian vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral abdominal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in jacobson's vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subpallium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial ganglionic eminence .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal pouch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stylopod .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in zeugopod .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in autopod .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r8 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interneuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior lateral line .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterodorsal lateral line placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midbrain tegmentum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migrating neuroblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in articular system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in axial ossicle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bone element .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal fin skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in coracoid bone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal fin skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in median fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in median fin skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in paired appendage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pectoral appendage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pelvic appendage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in scapula .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebral centrum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in vertebral element .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal subdivision .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in limb segment .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb stylopod .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb stylopod .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb zeugopod .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb zeugopod .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hand .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in foot .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eminentia thalami .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pallium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pretectum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prethalamus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in zona limitans intrathalamica .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thalamus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in head mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postmigratory neural crest cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stapes .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating limb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in joint region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in digit - joint region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in perichondrial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interdigital region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amputated tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amputated fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amputated limb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mesenchymal stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular head muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hyoid head muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial head muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hypobranchial head muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eye muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae articularis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae externus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . intermandibularis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . orbitohyoideus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . interhyoideus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . subarcualis rectus i .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . transversus anterior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . transversus ventralis ii .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . constrictor laryngis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . dilatator laryngis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in laryngeal muscle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus anterior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus posterior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus inferior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus superior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . obliquus inferior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . obliquus superior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basihyal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratobranchial i .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratobranchial ii .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratobranchial iii .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ceratobranchial iv .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cornua trabecula .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in infrarostral .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus anterior hyalis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus articularis palatoquadrati .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in parachordal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus lateralis hyalis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in planum hypobranchiale .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in planum trabeculare anticum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus posterior hyalis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in palatoquadrati .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in suprarostral plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trabecula cranii .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in branchial basket .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal stem cell region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal progenitor cell region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oculomotor motornucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal thalamus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trochlear motornucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in goblet cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mucociliary epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hatching gland primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central vegetal yolk mass .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apical mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in wound epidermis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in wound epidermis inner layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in wound epidermis outer layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apical epithelial cap .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pseudoblastema .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fibrocellular pad .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in keratinocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in leydig cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive axial mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proximal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interdigital mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb digit 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior lateral line ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trunk vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central retina .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . intermandibularis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . interhyoideus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . transversus anterior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . geniohyoideus primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus cervicis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in laryngeal muscle primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus anterior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus posterior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus inferior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . rectus superior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . obliquus inferior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . obliquus superior primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cranial muscle primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in brachet's cleft .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral line ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral retina .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subocular cartilage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in choroid .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in circumpharyngeal ridge .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rhombomere r1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in endolymphatic duct .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in serous membrane .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in organ cortex .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trabecula .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in trabecula carnea .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrial septum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sinus venosus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periotic region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal myocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in smooth muscle myocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit 2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit 3 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb digit 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epicardial precursor cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuroendocrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in organ part .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epiphysis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in diaphysis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spike .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forelimb bud tip .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindlimb bud tip .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cleavage furrow .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pelvic girdle primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iliac process .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iliac process primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ilium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ischium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pubis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postsacral vertebra .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rib .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apoptotic cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mitotic cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periosteum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interdigital webbing .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in osteoblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in melanoblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindgut primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in midgut primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in foregut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior tectum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior tectum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastocoel floor .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliated non - epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proximal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in distal tubule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proximal tubule branch .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in premigratory neural crest cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enteric neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pharyngeal mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory sensory neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tail somite 18 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in uveal tract .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in accessory olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior commissure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral funiculus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior thalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basal forebrain .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basal ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central canal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in central nucleus of the thalamus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal column nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal habenular nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal pallidum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal pallium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal septum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in granule cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in habenula .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in isthmic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral forebrain bundle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral funiculus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral pallium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral septum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in locus coeruleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial amygdala .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial pallium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial septum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mitral cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus accumbens .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus of the diagonal band .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pallidum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior commissure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal funiculus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in preoptic area .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in raphe nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in septum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in solitary tract .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in striatum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subcommissural organ .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in subthalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in torus semicircularis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral habenular nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral pallidum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral pallium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuromere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prosomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prosomere 4 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prosomere 5 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prosomere 6 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mammilary region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tuberal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural nucleus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secretory epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - cililated epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventrolateral neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsolateral neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rostral presomitic mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal presomitic mesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neurogenic placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in myotome of tail somite 18 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fin vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal fin vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral fin vasculature .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral blood island border .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior ventral blood island .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in matrix - based tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in acellular bone tissue .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multicellular anatomical structure .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larval intestinal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adult intestinal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in muller cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ciliated cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in spinal neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in paired dorsal aorta .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stromal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in interstitial cell of leydig .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hepatocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in granular gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in olfactory epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in macrophage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in presumptive rhombomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in forebrain - midbrain boundary .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neuropil of the optic tectum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cell body layer of the optic tectum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in radial glial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neural progenitor cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mauthner cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in eberth - kastschenko layer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migrating macrophage .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior semicircular canal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral semicircular canal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior semicircular canal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skeletal muscle satellite cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in schwann cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal crest of the endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal tuberal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rostral tuberal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus of the solitary tract .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prethalamus basal plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in parabrachial area .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retromammillary area .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus reticularis medialis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus reticularis superior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nucleus reticularis inferior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral septum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in supraoptoparaventricular region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stria terminalis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stratum spongiosum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stratum compactum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomerular mesangial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in glomerular epithelial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proepicardium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in external coil of the small intestine .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in internal coil of the small intestine .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sciatic nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in optic disc .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in typhlosole .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in iliofibularis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in sulcus limitans of neural tube .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skin gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skin mucous gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mucous gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in skin seromucous gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in bowman's gland .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior entopeduncular region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in secondary myofiber .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsomedial edge of myotome .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventrolateral edge of myotome .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dermomyotome .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in egg jelly .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in melanotrope .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prime meridian .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pulmonary epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral foregut .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal foregut .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior foregut .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior foregut .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in proximal stomach .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in distal stomach .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in astrocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in oligodendrocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in microglial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enteroendocrine cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal involuting marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in monociliated cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multiciliated cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lung bud .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars externa of the stapes .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars media of the stapes .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars interna of the stapes .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in footplate of the stapes .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fundus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in parotic crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . depressor mandibulae .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator scapulae superior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . levator scapulae inferior .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . petrohyoideus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in m . cucullaris .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tympanic annulus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in archenteron roof midline .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stomach body .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in antrum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pylorus .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardia .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prepollex .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prehallux .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular arch skeleton .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thoracic region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in alpha cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in beta cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in delta cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in epsilon cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in gamma cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left - right organizer primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left - right organizer .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in fin margin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left - dorsal blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right - dorsal blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in left - ventral blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in right - ventral blastomere .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in monociliated epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multiciliated epidermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in multiciliated cell precursor .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ascending interneuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in descending interneuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in commissural interneuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsolateral ascending neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsolateral commissural neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adenohypophysis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neurohypophysis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars distalis .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars nervosa .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pars intermedia .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ethmoid bone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ethmoid region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral nasal prominence .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial nasal prominence .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in enteric nervous system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neutrophil .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cardiac atrium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in peripheral ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in apical region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in axial region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in basal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in medial region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in antero - dorsal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in antero - ventral region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postero - dorsal region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in postero - ventral region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in otic capsule .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migrating myoblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in flexural organ .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in efferent neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in afferent neuron .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in larval alimentary system .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cloacal sphincter .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in small secretory cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal telencephalon .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intestinal stem cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in rostral notochord .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in caudal notochord .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating lens .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in superficial layer of neurectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior neural fold .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in embryonic kidney .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adult kidney .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in neurenteric canal .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in migratory trunk neural crest cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior hindgut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral trunk .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior tail .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior dorsal fin .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior neuroectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal tail .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal trunk .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in thrombocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in embryonic thrombocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in adult thrombocyte .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in regenerating pelvic girdle .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventro - lateral region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorso - lateral region .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in jaw muscle primordium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pial cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in pia mater .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in buccopharyngeal membrane .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in nasociliary nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in maxillary nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in mandibular nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in frontal nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in foregut epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tracheal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in esophageal epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in stomach epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in dorsal endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in ventral endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior endomesoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in atrioventricular valve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in cephalic nerve .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in prootic bone .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in retinal vein .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in periocular mesenchyme .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in roof of mouth .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in intercanthal region .
absence of the gall bladder in the left side .
absence of the outflow tract in the left side .
an abnormally necrotic tissue .
an abnormally necrotic multicellular anatomical structure .
an abnormally necrotic vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormally necrotic head .
an abnormally necrotic organism subdivision .
an abnormally necrotic cell .
an abnormally necrotic anatomical structure .
an abnormally necrotic multi - tissue structure .
an abnormally necrotic cardiac neural crest .
an abnormally necrotic heart .
an abnormally necrotic hyaloid blood vessel .
an abnormally necrotic blood vessel .
an abnormally necrotic posterior lateral line placode .
an abnormally necrotic lateral line placode .
an abnormally necrotic colon .
an abnormally necrotic ventral fin margin .
an abnormally necrotic fin margin .
an abnormally necrotic vena capitis medialis .
an abnormally necrotic vein .
an abnormally necrotic eye .
an abnormally necrotic cavitated compound organ .
an abnormally necrotic vegetal blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic uveal tract .
an abnormally necrotic tooth .
an abnormally necrotic skeletal element .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory bulb .
an abnormally necrotic head somite 4 .
an abnormally necrotic head somite .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 6 .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite .
an abnormally necrotic cartilage element .
an abnormally necrotic chondrocyte .
an abnormally necrotic chondrocranium .
an abnormally necrotic trunk .
an abnormally necrotic head vasculature .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic primary germ layer .
an abnormally necrotic myotome .
an abnormally necrotic sacral vertebra .
an abnormally necrotic vertebra .
an abnormally necrotic testis .
an abnormally necrotic gonad .
an abnormally necrotic supraoptoparaventricular region .
an abnormally necrotic neural nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic oocyte .
an abnormally necrotic germ cell .
an abnormally necrotic basal ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic anatomical cluster .
an abnormally necrotic anatomical system .
an abnormally necrotic anatomical group .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal fin .
an abnormally necrotic fin .
an abnormally necrotic branchial basket .
an abnormally necrotic foregut endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic primordium .
an abnormally necrotic fundus .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic skeletal subdivision .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating limb .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating tissue .
an abnormally necrotic elastica externa .
an abnormally necrotic braincase and otic capsule skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic optic tectum .
an abnormally necrotic epidermis .
an abnormally necrotic cranial muscle .
an abnormally necrotic muscle .
an abnormally necrotic neuron .
an abnormally necrotic enteric nervous system .
an abnormally necrotic neural crest .
an abnormally necrotic ventral hypothalamic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic cranium .
an abnormally necrotic embryonic structure .
an abnormally necrotic involuted dorsal mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic peripheral nervous system .
an abnormally necrotic perichordal tissue .
an abnormally necrotic connective tissue .
an abnormally necrotic small intestine .
an abnormally necrotic vertebral element .
an abnormally necrotic trunk musculature .
an abnormally necrotic chordal neural plate border .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus inferior .
an abnormally necrotic eye muscle .
an abnormally necrotic medial abdominal vein .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of tail somite 15 .
an abnormally necrotic ventral aorta .
an abnormally necrotic aorta .
an abnormally necrotic venous endothelium .
an abnormally necrotic simple squamous epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic vacuolated notochordal tissue .
an abnormally necrotic endochondral bone .
an abnormally necrotic pelvic girdle .
an abnormally necrotic endochondral element .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of tail somite 17 .
an abnormally necrotic circulatory system .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 4 .
an abnormally necrotic neural tube .
an abnormally necrotic cranial ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic neural plate .
an abnormally necrotic mouth primordium .
an abnormally necrotic solid compound organ .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal habenular nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic ectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic surface structure .
an abnormally necrotic anterior cerebral vein .
an abnormally necrotic cerebral vein .
an abnormally necrotic trunk vasculature .
an abnormally necrotic cardinal vein .
an abnormally necrotic foregut .
an abnormally necrotic paired dorsal aorta .
an abnormally necrotic artery .
an abnormally necrotic footplate of the stapes .
an abnormally necrotic heart primordium .
an abnormally necrotic splanchnocranium .
an abnormally necrotic midbrain .
an abnormally necrotic spinal cord .
an abnormally necrotic musculoskeletal system .
an abnormally necrotic proximal stomach .
an abnormally necrotic liver diverticulum .
an abnormally necrotic proepicardium .
an abnormally necrotic progenitor cell .
an abnormally necrotic proximal tubule branch .
an abnormally necrotic anatomical region .
an abnormally necrotic adult intestinal epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic gut epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic simple columnar epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic neurogenic placode .
an abnormally necrotic anterior placodal area .
an abnormally necrotic otic placode .
an abnormally necrotic visceral pouch 6 .
an abnormally necrotic visceral pouch .
an abnormally necrotic respiratory system .
an abnormally necrotic trunk placode .
an abnormally necrotic neuromere .
an abnormally necrotic presumptive rhombomere .
an abnormally necrotic hindbrain .
an abnormally necrotic posterior commissure .
an abnormally necrotic glomeral nexus .
an abnormally necrotic ventricular outflow tract .
an abnormally necrotic urogenital system .
an abnormally necrotic nerve .
an abnormally necrotic peripheral ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic mandibular arch .
an abnormally necrotic pharyngeal arch .
an abnormally necrotic brain .
an abnormally necrotic anterior neural tube .
an abnormally necrotic male genitalia .
an abnormally necrotic genital system .
an abnormally necrotic coelomic epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic posterior hypothalamus .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb zeugopod .
an abnormally necrotic zeugopod .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 7 .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb bud .
an abnormally necrotic mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormally necrotic liver .
an abnormally necrotic viscus .
an abnormally necrotic telencephalon .
an abnormally necrotic dermatocranium .
an abnormally necrotic tail somite 15 .
an abnormally necrotic craniofacial region .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 6 .
an abnormally necrotic postcaval vein .
an abnormally necrotic process .
an abnormally necrotic muller cell .
an abnormally necrotic glial cell .
an abnormally necrotic cranial skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic cardiac myocyte .
an abnormally necrotic myocyte .
an abnormally necrotic axial mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic cranial muscle primordium .
an abnormally necrotic head mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic limb segment .
an abnormally necrotic pre - enameloid .
an abnormally necrotic odontoid tissue .
an abnormally necrotic amputated limb .
an abnormally necrotic amputated tissue .
an abnormally necrotic trachea .
an abnormally necrotic enteroendocrine cell .
an abnormally necrotic endocrine cell .
an abnormally necrotic islets of langerhans .
an abnormally necrotic intersomitic region .
an abnormally necrotic first pancreatic bud .
an abnormally necrotic alimentary system .
an abnormally necrotic second pancreatic bud .
an abnormally necrotic hepato - pancreatic progenitor cell .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric nephron .
an abnormally necrotic anterior hypothalamus .
an abnormally necrotic central nucleus of the thalamus .
an abnormally necrotic optic fiber layer .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory system .
an abnormally necrotic sensory system .
an abnormally necrotic lymphatic system .
an abnormally necrotic compound organ .
an abnormally necrotic notochord .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v1 .1 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic ventral animal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic trigeminal nerve .
an abnormally necrotic cranial nerve .
an abnormally necrotic claw .
an abnormally necrotic acellular anatomical structure .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb digit 1 .
an abnormally necrotic midbrain tegmentum .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 2 .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 13 .
an abnormally necrotic barrier epithelial cell .
an abnormally necrotic liver primordium .
an abnormally necrotic avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormally necrotic non - mineralized cartilage tissue .
an abnormally necrotic proteinaceous extracellular matrix .
an abnormally necrotic myocardium .
an abnormally necrotic pronephric kidney .
an abnormally necrotic embryonic kidney .
an abnormally necrotic ultimobranchial body .
an abnormally necrotic prethalamus .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of tail somite 18 .
an abnormally necrotic wound epidermis .
an abnormally necrotic optic vesicle .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating hindlimb .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 2 .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric tubule .
an abnormally necrotic m . constrictor laryngis .
an abnormally necrotic laryngeal muscle .
an abnormally necrotic urinary system .
an abnormally necrotic endomesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic b cell .
an abnormally necrotic lymphocyte .
an abnormally necrotic anterior entopeduncular nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d1 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal animal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic central endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic vagal epibranchial placode .
an abnormally necrotic epibranchial placode .
an abnormally necrotic pelvic appendage .
an abnormally necrotic paired appendage .
an abnormally necrotic glomeral mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb digit .
an abnormally necrotic digit .
an abnormally necrotic head mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic periocular region .
an abnormally necrotic mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 9 .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 10 .
an abnormally necrotic extracellular matrix .
an abnormally necrotic primordial germ cell .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of tail somite 16 .
an abnormally necrotic tail region .
an abnormally necrotic lateral line system .
an abnormally necrotic paraxial mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic medulla oblongata .
an abnormally necrotic non - neural ectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic anterior foregut .
an abnormally necrotic tail fin .
an abnormally necrotic trunk neural crest .
an abnormally necrotic claw primordium .
an abnormally necrotic vegetal hemisphere .
an abnormally necrotic early embryonic cell .
an abnormally necrotic blastopore lip .
an abnormally necrotic pre - dentine .
an abnormally necrotic chordal neural plate .
an abnormally necrotic head somite 1 .
an abnormally necrotic cranial neural crest .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch .
an abnormally necrotic bone tissue .
an abnormally necrotic skeletal tissue .
an abnormally necrotic cardiovascular system .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere r5 .
an abnormally necrotic gamete .
an abnormally necrotic pallidum .
an abnormally necrotic m . obliquus superior primordium .
an abnormally necrotic neuroendocrine cell .
an abnormally necrotic skeletal muscle .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotomal cartilage .
an abnormally necrotic axial skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic embryo .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory placode .
an abnormally necrotic presumptive paraxial mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v2 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic ventral vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic humerus .
an abnormally necrotic glomus .
an abnormally necrotic retinal neural layer .
an abnormally necrotic cephalic nerve .
an abnormally necrotic lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic right atrium .
an abnormally necrotic zygote .
an abnormally necrotic tail somite .
an abnormally necrotic gastrocoel roof plate .
an abnormally necrotic circumblastoporal collar .
an abnormally necrotic hand .
an abnormally necrotic vestibulocochlear ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic vascular endothelium .
an abnormally necrotic lateral nasal prominence .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere r2 .
an abnormally necrotic skeletal system .
an abnormally necrotic amygdala .
an abnormally necrotic striatum .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus anterior primordium .
an abnormally necrotic thalamus .
an abnormally necrotic atypical epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic trigeminal placode .
an abnormally necrotic aortic arch 6 .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 4 .
an abnormally necrotic left channel of ventral aorta .
an abnormally necrotic basal forebrain .
an abnormally necrotic sensorial layer of neurectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae articularis .
an abnormally necrotic mandibular head muscle .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d2 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal vegetal hemisphere blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic eye primordium .
an abnormally necrotic m . subarcualis rectus i .
an abnormally necrotic branchial head muscle .
an abnormally necrotic parachordal .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb stylopod .
an abnormally necrotic stylopod .
an abnormally necrotic hatching gland .
an abnormally necrotic perichondrium .
an abnormally necrotic periosteum .
an abnormally necrotic lateral pallium .
an abnormally necrotic vitelline membrane .
an abnormally necrotic extraembryonic structure .
an abnormally necrotic atrioventricular valve .
an abnormally necrotic limb .
an abnormally necrotic hypochord .
an abnormally necrotic gall bladder primordium .
an abnormally necrotic organ part .
an abnormally necrotic femur .
an abnormally necrotic radio - ulna .
an abnormally necrotic tibia - fibula .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb .
an abnormally necrotic hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic somite .
an abnormally necrotic epithelial cell .
an abnormally necrotic pronephric mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic pigment cell .
an abnormally necrotic pericardium .
an abnormally necrotic peritoneum .
an abnormally necrotic thyroid .
an abnormally necrotic ventral pallidum .
an abnormally necrotic prosomere 6 .
an abnormally necrotic prosomere .
an abnormally necrotic myoblast .
an abnormally necrotic follicle layer .
an abnormally necrotic m . intermandibularis primordium .
an abnormally necrotic limb bud .
an abnormally necrotic rhombic lip .
an abnormally necrotic palatoquadrate .
an abnormally necrotic intestinal stem cell .
an abnormally necrotic stem cell .
an abnormally necrotic granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormally necrotic neuroectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic auditory ossicle .
an abnormally necrotic bone element .
an abnormally necrotic middle ear .
an abnormally necrotic amacrine cell .
an abnormally necrotic interneuron .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d2 .1 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic preplacodal ectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic pigment layer .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch 4 .
an abnormally necrotic periocular mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic adenohypophyseal placode .
an abnormally necrotic non - neurogenic ectodermal placode .
an abnormally necrotic cranial placode .
an abnormally necrotic epidermis inner layer .
an abnormally necrotic sensorial layer .
an abnormally necrotic anterior neural ridge .
an abnormally necrotic posterior ventral blood island .
an abnormally necrotic bottle cell .
an abnormally necrotic gastrula cell .
an abnormally necrotic blastema .
an abnormally necrotic secondary spermatogonium .
an abnormally necrotic tail tip .
an abnormally necrotic adrenal cortex .
an abnormally necrotic presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic ventricular layer of the optic tectum .
an abnormally necrotic vertebral column .
an abnormally necrotic circulating cell .
an abnormally necrotic immune system .
an abnormally necrotic blood .
an abnormally necrotic internal carotid artery .
an abnormally necrotic dermal skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic beta cell .
an abnormally necrotic pharynx .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 11 .
an abnormally necrotic ceratobranchial ii .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 6 .
an abnormally necrotic liver and biliary system .
an abnormally necrotic spinal neuron .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb bud tip .
an abnormally necrotic thymocyte .
an abnormally necrotic spleen .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 5 .
an abnormally necrotic metencephalic artery .
an abnormally necrotic ventral tail fin .
an abnormally necrotic perichondrial cell .
an abnormally necrotic secondary heart field .
an abnormally necrotic presumptive midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an abnormally necrotic suprablastoporal endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic podocyte .
an abnormally necrotic seminiferous tubule .
an abnormally necrotic nucleus of the diagonal band .
an abnormally necrotic inner fin .
an abnormally necrotic craniofacial skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic ethmoid region .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal aorta .
an abnormally necrotic muscular system .
an abnormally necrotic mandibular crest .
an abnormally necrotic choroid fissure .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 8 .
an abnormally necrotic tail somite 17 .
an abnormally necrotic cartilage tissue .
an abnormally necrotic pylorus .
an abnormally necrotic otic capsule .
an abnormally necrotic mauthner cell .
an abnormally necrotic portion of organism substance .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus cervicis primordium .
an abnormally necrotic esophagus .
an abnormally necrotic femur rudiment .
an abnormally necrotic outflow tract .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic capillary system of liver .
an abnormally necrotic capillary .
an abnormally necrotic ventral blood island .
an abnormally necrotic skin .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of head somite 2 .
an abnormally necrotic neuromast mantle cell .
an abnormally necrotic intestine .
an abnormally necrotic nucleus reticularis medialis .
an abnormally necrotic facial epibranchial placode .
an abnormally necrotic migratory neural crest cell .
an abnormally necrotic hyaloid vascular plexus .
an abnormally necrotic mineralized bone tissue .
an abnormally necrotic mineralized tissue .
an abnormally necrotic animal blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic midgut .
an abnormally necrotic posterior wall of neurenteric canal .
an abnormally necrotic medial region .
an abnormally necrotic posterior foregut .
an abnormally necrotic stage vi oocyte .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae externus primordium .
an abnormally necrotic dermomyotome .
an abnormally necrotic multilaminar epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic tail .
an abnormally necrotic branchial crest .
an abnormally necrotic pelvic girdle primordium .
an abnormally necrotic appendicular skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic involuted ventral mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic postero - dorsal region .
an abnormally necrotic trabecula cranii .
an abnormally necrotic ligament .
an abnormally necrotic dense regular connective tissue .
an abnormally necrotic dorsolateral neural tube .
an abnormally necrotic hyoid head muscle .
an abnormally necrotic manicotto glandulare .
an abnormally necrotic pallium .
an abnormally necrotic intersomitic vessel .
an abnormally necrotic abducens nerve .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v2 .
an abnormally necrotic involuting marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic retina .
an abnormally necrotic alpha cell .
an abnormally necrotic dorsolateral placode region .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 3 .
an abnormally necrotic posterior endomesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic processus anterior hyalis .
an abnormally necrotic mm .levator arcuum branchialium iv primordium .
an abnormally necrotic non - mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormally necrotic hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormally necrotic hindgut .
an abnormally necrotic posterior endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic visual system .
an abnormally necrotic animal cap .
an abnormally necrotic facies hyoidis of the palatoquadrate .
an abnormally necrotic neurenteric canal .
an abnormally necrotic branchial vein .
an abnormally necrotic smooth muscle .
an abnormally necrotic ionocyte ,  alpha subtype .
an abnormally necrotic ionocyte .
an abnormally necrotic cement gland .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating skeletal element .
an abnormally necrotic diencephalon .
an abnormally necrotic foot .
an abnormally necrotic joint region .
an abnormally necrotic prootic bone .
an abnormally necrotic primary spermatogonium .
an abnormally necrotic sclera .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb digit .
an abnormally necrotic tail vasculature .
an abnormally necrotic nervous system .
an abnormally necrotic neural fold .
an abnormally necrotic head region .
an abnormally necrotic vestibuloauditory system .
an abnormally necrotic posterior placodal area .
an abnormally necrotic subpallium .
an abnormally necrotic intermediate mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic septum .
an abnormally necrotic cement gland primordium .
an abnormally necrotic posterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic renal artery .
an abnormally necrotic proximal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb digit 5 .
an abnormally necrotic stratum spongiosum .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb .
an abnormally necrotic goblet cell .
an abnormally necrotic gamma cell .
an abnormally necrotic absorptive cell .
an abnormally necrotic eye photoreceptor cell .
an abnormally necrotic tympanic disk .
an abnormally necrotic tuberal region .
an abnormally necrotic oropharyngeal papilla .
an abnormally necrotic odontogenic papilla .
an abnormally necrotic anterior ventral blood island .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d1 .2 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic ventral pancreatic bud .
an abnormally necrotic ilium .
an abnormally necrotic lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic iris .
an abnormally necrotic appendage .
an abnormally necrotic infundibulum .
an abnormally necrotic hypophysis .
an abnormally necrotic unilaminar epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic nasociliary artery .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotomal mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v2 .2 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic midgut primordium .
an abnormally necrotic interdigital webbing .
an abnormally necrotic superficial layer of neurectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic m . transversus ventralis ii primordium .
an abnormally necrotic fin vasculature .
an abnormally necrotic interrenal vein .
an abnormally necrotic multiciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic ciliated epidermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic multiciliated cell .
an abnormally necrotic hypoglossal nerve .
an abnormally necrotic anatomical line .
an abnormally necrotic prehallux .
an abnormally necrotic peripheral retina .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal tail .
an abnormally necrotic osteoid .
an abnormally necrotic matrix - based tissue .
an abnormally necrotic iliac process primordium .
an abnormally necrotic isthmic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb bud .
an abnormally necrotic merkel cell .
an abnormally necrotic aortic arch .
an abnormally necrotic involuting marginal zone epithelial layer .
an abnormally necrotic endocrine system .
an abnormally necrotic hematological system .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch 2 .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal region .
an abnormally necrotic trigeminal ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic gustatory system .
an abnormally necrotic epicardial precursor cell .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating pelvic girdle .
an abnormally necrotic endodermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic distal stomach .
an abnormally necrotic distal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic anterior neuroectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic osseous labyrinth .
an abnormally necrotic nucleus of the solitary tract .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v2 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic ossicle .
an abnormally necrotic facial vein .
an abnormally necrotic anterior branchial crest .
an abnormally necrotic pharyngeal epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic cloaca .
an abnormally necrotic tail vein .
an abnormally necrotic ventral lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch skeleton 1 .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic lens fiber cell mass .
an abnormally necrotic pre - chordal neural plate .
an abnormally necrotic mm .constrictores branchiales ii primordium .
an abnormally necrotic lung primordium .
an abnormally necrotic cardiac mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic spinal ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic mesentery .
an abnormally necrotic right blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic foregut epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic pars distalis .
an abnormally necrotic retinal progenitor cell .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere r4 .
an abnormally necrotic cardiac atrium .
an abnormally necrotic anterior dorsal lateral plate region .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d2 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic tail somite 14 .
an abnormally necrotic trochlear motornucleus .
an abnormally necrotic ventral mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic vagal neural crest .
an abnormally necrotic infraorbital lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 11 .
an abnormally necrotic secondary oogonium .
an abnormally necrotic head somite 2 .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal pallidum .
an abnormally necrotic myeloid cell .
an abnormally necrotic tarsus .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric early distal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic pharyngeal region .
an abnormally necrotic m . petrohyoideus .
an abnormally necrotic m . quadrato - hyoangularis primordium .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v1 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic adipose tissue .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 12 .
an abnormally necrotic neurohypophysis .
an abnormally necrotic inner ear .
an abnormally necrotic vagus nerve .
an abnormally necrotic lateral line primordium .
an abnormally necrotic prethalamus basal plate .
an abnormally necrotic retinal blood vessel .
an abnormally necrotic pancreas .
an abnormally necrotic metencephalic vein .
an abnormally necrotic hematopoietic stem cell .
an abnormally necrotic notochordal sheath .
an abnormally necrotic blastopore .
an abnormally necrotic bronchus .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric kidney .
an abnormally necrotic adult kidney .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal foregut .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch skeleton 2 .
an abnormally necrotic non - ciliated epithelial cell .
an abnormally necrotic ovary .
an abnormally necrotic epsilon cell .
an abnormally necrotic auditory apparatus .
an abnormally necrotic commisura quadratocranialis anterior .
an abnormally necrotic astrocyte .
an abnormally necrotic anterior region .
an abnormally necrotic duct of cuvier .
an abnormally necrotic left - ventral blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic visceral pouch 3 .
an abnormally necrotic medial cardinal vein .
an abnormally necrotic left - right organizer primordium .
an abnormally necrotic epidermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic autopod .
an abnormally necrotic female organism .
an abnormally necrotic whole organism .
an abnormally necrotic neural plate border .
an abnormally necrotic lens .
an abnormally necrotic lens placode .
an abnormally necrotic endocardial cushion .
an abnormally necrotic intersomitic artery .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic monociliated cell .
an abnormally necrotic ciliated cell .
an abnormally necrotic aortic arch 3 .
an abnormally necrotic metacarpus .
an abnormally necrotic peripheral vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormally necrotic pharyngeal mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic lateral postcardinal vein .
an abnormally necrotic biliary tree .
an abnormally necrotic cell condensation .
an abnormally necrotic prime meridian .
an abnormally necrotic central retina .
an abnormally necrotic head somite 3 .
an abnormally necrotic spermatocyte .
an abnormally necrotic pars nervosa .
an abnormally necrotic antero - dorsal region .
an abnormally necrotic neural stem cell .
an abnormally necrotic ventrolateral neural tube .
an abnormally necrotic thyroid primordium .
an abnormally necrotic lateral line ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic archenteron floor .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus cervicus .
an abnormally necrotic hypobranchial head muscle .
an abnormally necrotic magnocellular preoptic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic adenohypophysis .
an abnormally necrotic wound epidermis outer layer .
an abnormally necrotic tendon fibroblast .
an abnormally necrotic fibroblast .
an abnormally necrotic typhlosole .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of tail somite 15 .
an abnormally necrotic midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
an abnormally necrotic lateral septum .
an abnormally necrotic endocardial tube .
an abnormally necrotic posterior neural tube .
an abnormally necrotic hyomandibular lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic arterial endothelium .
an abnormally necrotic basilar papilla .
an abnormally necrotic epidermis outer layer .
an abnormally necrotic ileum .
an abnormally necrotic bulbous arteriosis .
an abnormally necrotic anterior entopeduncular region .
an abnormally necrotic cell body layer of the optic tectum .
an abnormally necrotic left blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal septum .
an abnormally necrotic oral evagination .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb stylopod .
an abnormally necrotic stirnorgan .
an abnormally necrotic hemangioblast .
an abnormally necrotic hyoid arch .
an abnormally necrotic anterior neural fold .
an abnormally necrotic skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic claw of hindlimb digit 4 .
an abnormally necrotic retromammillary area .
an abnormally necrotic optic nerve .
an abnormally necrotic animal pole .
an abnormally necrotic mullerian duct .
an abnormally necrotic duct .
an abnormally necrotic retinal stem cell .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch 3 .
an abnormally necrotic trunk somite 1 .
an abnormally necrotic mm .constrictores branchiales ii .
an abnormally necrotic pronephric duct .
an abnormally necrotic cloacal sphincter .
an abnormally necrotic apical ectodermal ridge .
an abnormally necrotic proliferative region .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric collecting duct .
an abnormally necrotic stomach body .
an abnormally necrotic distal mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic mesenchymal stem cell .
an abnormally necrotic sensory epithelial cell .
an abnormally necrotic lens epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic presumptive axial mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal column nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic urethra .
an abnormally necrotic m . obliquus inferior primordium .
an abnormally necrotic omphalomesenteric vein .
an abnormally necrotic embryonic thrombocyte .
an abnormally necrotic thrombocyte .
an abnormally necrotic processus lateralis hyalis .
an abnormally necrotic tail somite 16 .
an abnormally necrotic ventral tegmentum .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating lens .
an abnormally necrotic retinal pigmented epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic aortic arch 1 .
an abnormally necrotic stomach .
an abnormally necrotic animal hemisphere .
an abnormally necrotic central nervous system .
an abnormally necrotic caudal vertebra .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d2 .
an abnormally necrotic multiciliated cell precursor .
an abnormally necrotic mm .levator arcuum branchialium i primordium .
an abnormally necrotic lens transitional zone .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb digit 2 .
an abnormally necrotic hypothalamus .
an abnormally necrotic lateral ganglionic eminence .
an abnormally necrotic subthalamic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic glomerulus .
an abnormally necrotic radial glial cell .
an abnormally necrotic lateral abdominal vein .
an abnormally necrotic melanophore .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere r7 .
an abnormally necrotic pharyngeal endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus superior primordium .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory nerve .
an abnormally necrotic retinal layer .
an abnormally necrotic primary oogonium .
an abnormally necrotic ciliary marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic endocardium .
an abnormally necrotic retinal rod cell .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic jaw muscle primordium .
an abnormally necrotic planum hypobranchiale .
an abnormally necrotic tail bud .
an abnormally necrotic egg .
an abnormally necrotic stomodeal - hypophyseal primordium .
an abnormally necrotic primary heart field .
an abnormally necrotic ventromedial thalamic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic gasserian ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic cardia .
an abnormally necrotic mm .levator arcuum branchialium iv .
an abnormally necrotic atrioventricular canal .
an abnormally necrotic stromal cell .
an abnormally necrotic intersomitic epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic trabecula carnea .
an abnormally necrotic trabecula .
an abnormally necrotic pars interna of the stapes .
an abnormally necrotic postcranial axial skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic pre - enamel .
an abnormally necrotic non - mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormally necrotic endolymphatic duct .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb digit 4 .
an abnormally necrotic suprachiasmatic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic m . orbitohyoideus primordium .
an abnormally necrotic pars externa of the stapes .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric duct .
an abnormally necrotic dermal system .
an abnormally necrotic retinal outer nuclear layer .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus posterior primordium .
an abnormally necrotic stage ii oocyte .
an abnormally necrotic large intestine .
an abnormally necrotic meckel's cartilage .
an abnormally necrotic pronephric nephron .
an abnormally necrotic vena capitis lateralis .
an abnormally necrotic infraorbital lateral line primordium .
an abnormally necrotic interdigital region .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory organ .
an abnormally necrotic ischiadic artery .
an abnormally necrotic retinal progenitor cell region .
an abnormally necrotic profundus ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic myelin accumulating cell .
an abnormally necrotic neuroectoderm outer layer .
an abnormally necrotic claw of hindlimb digit 2 .
an abnormally necrotic non - cililated epidermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic optic disc .
an abnormally necrotic eberth - kastschenko layer .
an abnormally necrotic dermis .
an abnormally necrotic right spleen primordium .
an abnormally necrotic larval alimentary system .
an abnormally necrotic mm .levator arcuum branchialium iii primordium .
an abnormally necrotic forebrain .
an abnormally necrotic sub - blastoporal endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic ventral hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic lower eyelid .
an abnormally necrotic organ cortex .
an abnormally necrotic pericardial muscle .
an abnormally necrotic torus semicircularis .
an abnormally necrotic mm .constrictores branchiales iii .
an abnormally necrotic kidney .
an abnormally necrotic retinal stem cell region .
an abnormally necrotic central amygdala .
an abnormally necrotic mm .constrictores branchiales iii primordium .
an abnormally necrotic ventral abdominal vein .
an abnormally necrotic antrum .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal trunk .
an abnormally necrotic articular system .
an abnormally necrotic orbital region .
an abnormally necrotic posterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic anteroventral lateral line placode .
an abnormally necrotic atrioventricular canal endocardium .
an abnormally necrotic hindgut primordium .
an abnormally necrotic joint .
an abnormally necrotic apical region .
an abnormally necrotic postero - ventral region .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic skeletal myocyte .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating forelimb .
an abnormally necrotic medial pallium .
an abnormally necrotic hyoid crest .
an abnormally necrotic osteoblast .
an abnormally necrotic medial ganglionic eminence .
an abnormally necrotic medial septum .
an abnormally necrotic mm .levator arcuum branchialium ii .
an abnormally necrotic pharyngeal pouch .
an abnormally necrotic preoptic area .
an abnormally necrotic cerebellum .
an abnormally necrotic migrating myoblast .
an abnormally necrotic stratum compactum .
an abnormally necrotic stomach epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal tail fin .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal pancreatic bud .
an abnormally necrotic subintestinal vein .
an abnormally necrotic stapes .
an abnormally necrotic blastocoel anlage .
an abnormally necrotic keratin accumulating cell .
an abnormally necrotic adrenal medulla .
an abnormally necrotic skin gland .
an abnormally necrotic subclavian vein .
an abnormally necrotic jacobson's organ .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d1 .1 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel .
an abnormally necrotic m . constrictor laryngis primordium .
an abnormally necrotic neutrophil .
an abnormally necrotic lung .
an abnormally necrotic early distal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic apoptotic cell .
an abnormally necrotic arteria subclavia .
an abnormally necrotic non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
an abnormally necrotic postsacral vertebra .
an abnormally necrotic semicircular canal .
an abnormally necrotic migrating macrophage .
an abnormally necrotic macrophage .
an abnormally necrotic ventricular zone .
an abnormally necrotic right channel of ventral aorta .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d1 .
an abnormally necrotic sacculus .
an abnormally necrotic mineralized cartilage tissue .
an abnormally necrotic larval immune system .
an abnormally necrotic simple organ .
an abnormally necrotic posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic pronephric tubule .
an abnormally necrotic visceral pouch 5 .
an abnormally necrotic floor plate .
an abnormally necrotic horizontal cell .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb zeugopod .
an abnormally necrotic migrating neuroblast .
an abnormally necrotic pars media of the stapes .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 3 .
an abnormally necrotic hatching gland primordium .
an abnormally necrotic tongue .
an abnormally necrotic ventral trunk .
an abnormally necrotic glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormally necrotic fin crest .
an abnormally necrotic proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere r3 .
an abnormally necrotic intersomitic neuron .
an abnormally necrotic enteric neuron .
an abnormally necrotic ceratobranchial iii .
an abnormally necrotic dermatome .
an abnormally necrotic ventral fin vasculature .
an abnormally necrotic motor neuron .
an abnormally necrotic upper jaw .
an abnormally necrotic stria terminalis .
an abnormally necrotic thymus .
an abnormally necrotic posterior cardinal vein .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d1 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic otic region .
an abnormally necrotic hepatic vein .
an abnormally necrotic anterior crista .
an abnormally necrotic nucleate erythrocyte .
an abnormally necrotic supraorbital lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic leydig cell .
an abnormally necrotic nucleus reticularis superior .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal tegmentum .
an abnormally necrotic tail somite 18 .
an abnormally necrotic musculature of face .
an abnormally necrotic sympathetic chain .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch skeleton 4 .
an abnormally necrotic m . geniohyoideus primordium .
an abnormally necrotic external jugular vein .
an abnormally necrotic infrarostral .
an abnormally necrotic membrane bone .
an abnormally necrotic tendon .
an abnormally necrotic atrial septum .
an abnormally necrotic anterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic right - ventral blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic rostral tuberal region .
an abnormally necrotic processus retroarticularis of meckel's cartilage .
an abnormally necrotic occipitovertebral artery .
an abnormally necrotic femoral vein .
an abnormally necrotic medial nasal prominence .
an abnormally necrotic descending interneuron .
an abnormally necrotic afferent neuron .
an abnormally necrotic retinal ganglion cell .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory region .
an abnormally necrotic basal lamina .
an abnormally necrotic serous membrane .
an abnormally necrotic duodenum .
an abnormally necrotic premigratory neural crest cell .
an abnormally necrotic trunk region .
an abnormally necrotic cervical vertebra .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 5 .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb digit 3 .
an abnormally necrotic anterior lymph sac .
an abnormally necrotic adrenal gland .
an abnormally necrotic flexural organ .
an abnormally necrotic presacral vertebra .
an abnormally necrotic neural groove .
an abnormally necrotic left omphalomesenteric vein .
an abnormally necrotic ceratobranchial iv .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae longus superior primordium .
an abnormally necrotic anterior palatine artery .
an abnormally necrotic transporting epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic mineralized extracellular matrix .
an abnormally necrotic mandibular mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic pia mater .
an abnormally necrotic saccular macula .
an abnormally necrotic anterior semicircular canal .
an abnormally necrotic digestive enzyme secreting cell .
an abnormally necrotic xanthophore .
an abnormally necrotic basihyal .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch 1 .
an abnormally necrotic neuromast support cell .
an abnormally necrotic ceratohyal .
an abnormally necrotic cleavage furrow .
an abnormally necrotic vegetal pole .
an abnormally necrotic otic vesicle .
an abnormally necrotic male organism .
an abnormally necrotic hatching gland cell .
an abnormally necrotic acid secreting cell .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb region .
an abnormally necrotic m . intermandibularis .
an abnormally necrotic utricle .
an abnormally necrotic tympanic annulus .
an abnormally necrotic granule cell layer of the cerebellum .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb digit 4 .
an abnormally necrotic optic stalk .
an abnormally necrotic solitary tract .
an abnormally necrotic m . interhyoideus primordium .
an abnormally necrotic bone marrow .
an abnormally necrotic pineal gland .
an abnormally necrotic intersomitic tendon .
an abnormally necrotic polar body .
an abnormally necrotic egg jelly .
an abnormally necrotic hyoid arch skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic cartilaginous condensation .
an abnormally necrotic vestibule .
an abnormally necrotic mucous gland .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 12 .
an abnormally necrotic prechordal plate .
an abnormally necrotic pectoral girdle .
an abnormally necrotic hyaloid artery .
an abnormally necrotic t cell .
an abnormally necrotic abdominal myoblast .
an abnormally necrotic lymph vessel .
an abnormally necrotic marginal zone  ( sensu neural )  .
an abnormally necrotic m . cucullaris .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 1 .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae externus .
an abnormally necrotic auditory hair cell .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae longus profundus .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 11 .
an abnormally necrotic right lymph heart .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d2 .1 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic optic field .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric early proximal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic morula cell .
an abnormally necrotic vestibulocochlear nerve .
an abnormally necrotic mineralized avascular gag - rich matrix .
an abnormally necrotic adult immune system .
an abnormally necrotic ophthalmic vein .
an abnormally necrotic melanoblast .
an abnormally necrotic middle cerebral vein .
an abnormally necrotic optic choroid vascular plexus .
an abnormally necrotic vascular plexus .
an abnormally necrotic branchial arch skeleton 3 .
an abnormally necrotic arteria iliaca communis .
an abnormally necrotic processus posterior hyalis .
an abnormally necrotic fat body .
an abnormally necrotic spermatozoon .
an abnormally necrotic m . obliquus superior .
an abnormally necrotic anteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 4 .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal crest of the endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic ethmoid bone .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus inferior primordium .
an abnormally necrotic stage iv oocyte .
an abnormally necrotic ventral habenular nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of head somite 3 .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae longus internus primordium .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae articularis primordium .
an abnormally necrotic upper blastopore lip .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal involuting marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb bud tip .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic postmigratory neural crest cell .
an abnormally necrotic periotic region .
an abnormally necrotic intersomitic vein .
an abnormally necrotic stage i oocyte .
an abnormally necrotic melanotrope .
an abnormally necrotic processus ascendens palatoquadrate .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of tail somite 14 .
an abnormally necrotic posterior tail .
an abnormally necrotic caudal lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic simple cuboidal epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic roof of mouth .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of tail somite 16 .
an abnormally necrotic cutaneous magnus .
an abnormally necrotic left - right organizer .
an abnormally necrotic hepatic portal vein .
an abnormally necrotic dermal bone .
an abnormally necrotic small secretory cell .
an abnormally necrotic bipolar neuron .
an abnormally necrotic pre - chordal neural plate border .
an abnormally necrotic ciliary body .
an abnormally necrotic larval aorta .
an abnormally necrotic proctodeum .
an abnormally necrotic glomerular mesangial cell .
an abnormally necrotic pericyte .
an abnormally necrotic vitelline vein .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal endomesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic rib .
an abnormally necrotic retinal cone cell .
an abnormally necrotic truncus arteriosus .
an abnormally necrotic m . depressor mandibulae .
an abnormally necrotic endoskeleton .
an abnormally necrotic lateral vein .
an abnormally necrotic delta cell .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic coracoid bone .
an abnormally necrotic dorsomedial edge of myotome .
an abnormally necrotic pretectum .
an abnormally necrotic trunk lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic globe .
an abnormally necrotic smooth muscle myocyte .
an abnormally necrotic gill primordium .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal fin vasculature .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d2 .2 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic commissural interneuron .
an abnormally necrotic keratinocyte .
an abnormally necrotic wound epidermis inner layer .
an abnormally necrotic lung bud .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal fin margin .
an abnormally necrotic pericardial roof .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal thalamus .
an abnormally necrotic hypophyseal primordium .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v1 .1 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic involuting marginal zone mesenchymal layer .
an abnormally necrotic anterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic larval intestinal epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic left spleen primordium .
an abnormally necrotic anterior commissure .
an abnormally necrotic female genitalia .
an abnormally necrotic posterior cerebral vein .
an abnormally necrotic anterior endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic roof plate .
an abnormally necrotic migratory trunk neural crest cell .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator scapulae inferior .
an abnormally necrotic median fin skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic m . interhyoideus .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 5 .
an abnormally necrotic unicellular gland .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 8 .
an abnormally necrotic arteria mesenterica posterior .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v2 .1 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic vertebral centrum .
an abnormally necrotic m . transversus ventralis ii .
an abnormally necrotic ventral pallium .
an abnormally necrotic epigastric artery .
an abnormally necrotic neuroectoderm inner layer .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 3 .
an abnormally necrotic iliac process .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of head somite 1 .
an abnormally necrotic ischium .
an abnormally necrotic pronephric nephrostome .
an abnormally necrotic suprarostral plate .
an abnormally necrotic circumpharyngeal ridge .
an abnormally necrotic esophageal epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic enamel .
an abnormally necrotic sciatic nerve .
an abnormally necrotic visceral pouch 1 .
an abnormally necrotic chondroblast .
an abnormally necrotic optic chiasm .
an abnormally necrotic non - involuting marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic lateral hypothalamic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic laryngeal muscle primordium .
an abnormally necrotic maxillary artery .
an abnormally necrotic central vegetal yolk mass .
an abnormally necrotic mm .levator arcuum branchialium iii .
an abnormally necrotic peripheral nerve .
an abnormally necrotic frontal nerve .
an abnormally necrotic lateral crista .
an abnormally necrotic mammilary region .
an abnormally necrotic mm .constrictores branchiales iv .
an abnormally necrotic barbel .
an abnormally necrotic head endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic hypobranchial placode .
an abnormally necrotic ascending interneuron .
an abnormally necrotic bladder .
an abnormally necrotic periosteum  ( sensu osteogenic layer )  .
an abnormally necrotic animal cap inner layer .
an abnormally necrotic m . quadrato - hyoangularis .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d1 .2 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic dentine .
an abnormally necrotic axial region .
an abnormally necrotic lagena .
an abnormally necrotic ceratobranchial i .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal caudal lymphatic vessel .
an abnormally necrotic occipital lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic dorsolateral ascending neuron .
an abnormally necrotic lower jaw .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb digit 5 .
an abnormally necrotic mucus secreting cell .
an abnormally necrotic habenula .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 12 .
an abnormally necrotic pectoral appendage .
an abnormally necrotic endothelial cell .
an abnormally necrotic eminentia thalami .
an abnormally necrotic m . transversus anterior primordium .
an abnormally necrotic notoplate .
an abnormally necrotic internal coil of the small intestine .
an abnormally necrotic hepatocyte .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 2 .
an abnormally necrotic ventral septum .
an abnormally necrotic animal part ,  late involuting .
an abnormally necrotic m . geniohyoideus .
an abnormally necrotic somatic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic intercanthal region .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere r6 .
an abnormally necrotic acellular bone tissue .
an abnormally necrotic aortic arch 4 .
an abnormally necrotic posterior lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic cementoblast .
an abnormally necrotic late distal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic anterior cardinal vein .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus superior .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus abdominis .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d1 .1 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic sesamoid .
an abnormally necrotic neurocranium .
an abnormally necrotic basal region .
an abnormally necrotic apical mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic parabrachial area .
an abnormally necrotic posterior neural fold .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating fin .
an abnormally necrotic ventral caudal lymphatic vessel .
an abnormally necrotic elastic cartilage tissue .
an abnormally necrotic monociliated epidermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic visceral pouch 4 .
an abnormally necrotic secretory epithelial cell .
an abnormally necrotic pulmonary artery .
an abnormally necrotic epicardium .
an abnormally necrotic interstitial cell of leydig .
an abnormally necrotic ventral posterior hindgut endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic genital ridge .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v1 .
an abnormally necrotic retinal ganglion cell layer .
an abnormally necrotic posteroventral tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic posterior lateral line ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic retinal inner nuclear layer .
an abnormally necrotic parathyroid .
an abnormally necrotic nucleus reticularis inferior .
an abnormally necrotic ventral blood island border .
an abnormally necrotic musculoabdominal vein .
an abnormally necrotic external coil of the small intestine .
an abnormally necrotic anterior - proximal mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic ventro - lateral region .
an abnormally necrotic left - dorsal blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic mm .levator arcuum branchialium ii primordium .
an abnormally necrotic fibrocartilage .
an abnormally necrotic lower blastopore lip .
an abnormally necrotic m . dilatator laryngis primordium .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 13 .
an abnormally necrotic median fin .
an abnormally necrotic mesencephalic vein .
an abnormally necrotic m . subarcualis rectus i primordium .
an abnormally necrotic m . obliquus inferior .
an abnormally necrotic buccopharyngeal membrane .
an abnormally necrotic conjunctiva .
an abnormally necrotic trochlear nerve .
an abnormally necrotic subcommissural organ .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal funiculus .
an abnormally necrotic coeliaco - mesenteric artery .
an abnormally necrotic erythroid cell .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating zeugopod skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic ventral foregut .
an abnormally necrotic nucleus accumbens .
an abnormally necrotic claw of hindlimb digit 1 .
an abnormally necrotic presumptive ectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic cardiac jelly .
an abnormally necrotic lateral forebrain bundle .
an abnormally necrotic anterior dorsal fin .
an abnormally necrotic cutaneous femoral vein .
an abnormally necrotic brachet's cleft .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae longus profundus primordium .
an abnormally necrotic chordoneural hinge .
an abnormally necrotic laterodorsal tegmental nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v1 .2 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic caudal fin skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic blastocoel roof .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 9 .
an abnormally necrotic exocrine pancreas .
an abnormally necrotic compound organ component .
an abnormally necrotic notochordal epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic pseudoblastema .
an abnormally necrotic profundal placode .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating eye .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 1 .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v1 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic granule cell .
an abnormally necrotic spiral septum .
an abnormally necrotic left lymph heart .
an abnormally necrotic bile duct .
an abnormally necrotic cementum .
an abnormally necrotic electrically active cell .
an abnormally necrotic external carotid artery .
an abnormally necrotic oral epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic blastocoel floor .
an abnormally necrotic epaxial muscle .
an abnormally necrotic mm .constrictores branchiales iv primordium .
an abnormally necrotic sulcus limitans of neural tube .
an abnormally necrotic retinal outer plexiform layer .
an abnormally necrotic central canal .
an abnormally necrotic pulmonary vein .
an abnormally necrotic jaw muscle .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator scapulae superior .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere d2 .2 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic lateral semicircular canal .
an abnormally necrotic facial nerve .
an abnormally necrotic fasciculated network of fibrils .
an abnormally necrotic ciliated non - epidermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic hindlimb region .
an abnormally necrotic caudal presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic ligament cell .
an abnormally necrotic sinus venosus .
an abnormally necrotic external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormally necrotic subinterstitial vein .
an abnormally necrotic cardiac progenitor cell .
an abnormally necrotic ventral marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic cerebral artery .
an abnormally necrotic photoreceptor layer .
an abnormally necrotic efferent neuron .
an abnormally necrotic carpus .
an abnormally necrotic cornua trabecula .
an abnormally necrotic glossopharyngeal nerve .
an abnormally necrotic visceral pouch 2 .
an abnormally necrotic urostyle .
an abnormally necrotic acinar cell .
an abnormally necrotic m . transversus anterior .
an abnormally necrotic enameloid .
an abnormally necrotic anterior amygdala .
an abnormally necrotic glossopharyngeal epibranchial placode .
an abnormally necrotic vertebral artery .
an abnormally necrotic posterior tectum .
an abnormally necrotic mitotic cell .
an abnormally necrotic perivitelline space .
an abnormally necrotic anterodorsal lateral line placode .
an abnormally necrotic gastric vein .
an abnormally necrotic caudal vein .
an abnormally necrotic posterior semicircular canal .
an abnormally necrotic ectodermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic internal jugular vein .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic iridophore .
an abnormally necrotic hypaxial muscle .
an abnormally necrotic ionocyte ,  beta subtype .
an abnormally necrotic interdigital mesenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic suspensorium .
an abnormally necrotic posterior vena cava .
an abnormally necrotic forebrain - midbrain boundary .
an abnormally necrotic m . dilatator laryngis .
an abnormally necrotic paracrine cell .
an abnormally necrotic pubis .
an abnormally necrotic pulmonary epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic natural killer cell .
an abnormally necrotic palatoquadrati .
an abnormally necrotic spiracle .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of head somite 4 .
an abnormally necrotic oligodendrocyte .
an abnormally necrotic skeletal muscle satellite cell .
an abnormally necrotic m . orbitohyoideus .
an abnormally necrotic secondary myofiber .
an abnormally necrotic bowman's gland .
an abnormally necrotic tracheal epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic ischiadic vein .
an abnormally necrotic early proximal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic ventral endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic sacral neural crest .
an abnormally necrotic thoracic region .
an abnormally necrotic external gill .
an abnormally necrotic auditory tube .
an abnormally necrotic raphe nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic right - dorsal blastomere .
an abnormally necrotic ventrolateral edge of myotome .
an abnormally necrotic dental epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic maxillary nerve .
an abnormally necrotic posterior region .
an abnormally necrotic middle lateral line placode .
an abnormally necrotic skin mucous gland .
an abnormally necrotic processus muscularis palatoquadrati .
an abnormally necrotic rathke's pouch .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae longus internus .
an abnormally necrotic optic tract .
an abnormally necrotic epiphysis .
an abnormally necrotic follicle cell .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 8 .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of head somite 4 .
an abnormally necrotic m . levator mandibulae longus superficialis .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v1 .2 .1 .
an abnormally necrotic mm .levator arcuum branchialium i .
an abnormally necrotic apical epithelial cap .
an abnormally necrotic pial cell .
an abnormally necrotic glomerular epithelial cell .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb digit 2 .
an abnormally necrotic lateral preplacodal ectoderm .
an abnormally necrotic ventral funiculus .
an abnormally necrotic posterior branchial crest .
an abnormally necrotic angioblast .
an abnormally necrotic vestibular apparatus .
an abnormally necrotic pyloric sphincter .
an abnormally necrotic rostral notochord .
an abnormally necrotic gall bladder .
an abnormally necrotic nasociliary nerve .
an abnormally necrotic parotic crest .
an abnormally necrotic locus coeruleus .
an abnormally necrotic rectal diverticulum .
an abnormally necrotic anterior endomesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory sensory neuron .
an abnormally necrotic microglial cell .
an abnormally necrotic axial ossicle .
an abnormally necrotic liver parenchyme .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere r1 .
an abnormally necrotic ventral endomesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic mandibular artery .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v2 .2 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic planum trabeculare anticum .
an abnormally necrotic rhombomere r8 .
an abnormally necrotic caudal artery .
an abnormally necrotic spermatid .
an abnormally necrotic mucociliary epithelium .
an abnormally necrotic claw of hindlimb digit 3 .
an abnormally necrotic retinal inner plexiform layer .
an abnormally necrotic ophthalmic artery .
an abnormally necrotic zona limitans intrathalamica .
an abnormally necrotic cornea .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus posterior .
an abnormally necrotic forelimb digit 3 .
an abnormally necrotic archenteron roof midline .
an abnormally necrotic aortic arch 5 .
an abnormally necrotic oxygen accumulating cell .
an abnormally necrotic alkali secreting cell .
an abnormally necrotic oviduct .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal pallium .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 10 .
an abnormally necrotic dorsolateral commissural neuron .
an abnormally necrotic processus articularis palatoquadrati .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric late distal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic barrier cell .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 7 .
an abnormally necrotic outer limiting membrane .
an abnormally necrotic spike .
an abnormally necrotic amputated fin .
an abnormally necrotic posterior palatine artery .
an abnormally necrotic ventrolateral thalamic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic mitral cell .
an abnormally necrotic anterior lateral line placode .
an abnormally necrotic ventral region .
an abnormally necrotic stage iii oocyte .
an abnormally necrotic oculomotor motornucleus .
an abnormally necrotic atrioventricular valve leaflet .
an abnormally necrotic spinal nerve .
an abnormally necrotic odontode tissue .
an abnormally necrotic fibrocellular pad .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of tail somite 17 .
an abnormally necrotic mineralized hyaline cartilage tissue .
an abnormally necrotic retinal vein .
an abnormally necrotic caudal notochord .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 9 .
an abnormally necrotic larynx .
an abnormally necrotic bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
an abnormally necrotic outer fin .
an abnormally necrotic choroid .
an abnormally necrotic inner limiting membrane .
an abnormally necrotic blastomere v2 .1 .2 .
an abnormally necrotic pars intermedia .
an abnormally necrotic occipital region .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of trunk somite 10 .
an abnormally necrotic middle lateral line .
an abnormally necrotic periosteum  ( sensu fibrous layer )  .
an abnormally necrotic antero - ventral region .
an abnormally necrotic post - anal gut .
an abnormally necrotic oropharynx .
an abnormally necrotic mesencephalic artery .
an abnormally necrotic mandibular arch skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic oculomotor nerve .
an abnormally necrotic somatic stem cell .
an abnormally necrotic aortic arch 2 .
an abnormally necrotic mesodermal cell .
an abnormally necrotic rohon - beard neuron .
an abnormally necrotic accessory nerve .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal fin skeleton .
an abnormally necrotic sphenoid region .
an abnormally necrotic appendicular ossicle .
an abnormally necrotic exocrine cell .
an abnormally necrotic prepollex .
an abnormally necrotic skin seromucous gland .
an abnormally necrotic cardiac ventricle .
an abnormally necrotic lateral funiculus .
an abnormally necrotic digit - joint region .
an abnormally necrotic neuropil of the optic tectum .
an abnormally necrotic rostral presomitic mesoderm .
an abnormally necrotic metatarsus .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of tail somite 18 .
an abnormally necrotic schwann cell .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 13 .
an abnormally necrotic late proximal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic ureter .
an abnormally necrotic claw of hindlimb digit 5 .
an abnormally necrotic granular gland .
an abnormally necrotic cardiac valve .
an abnormally necrotic myotome of tail somite 14 .
an abnormally necrotic vegetal part ,  early involuting .
an abnormally necrotic jacobson's vein .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal telencephalon .
an abnormally necrotic anterior thalamic nucleus .
an abnormally necrotic dorso - lateral marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic medial amygdala .
an abnormally necrotic regenerating tail .
an abnormally necrotic iliofibularis .
an abnormally necrotic hepato - pancreatic duct .
an abnormally necrotic mesonephric late proximal tubule .
an abnormally necrotic subocular cartilage .
an abnormally necrotic lateral amygdala .
an abnormally necrotic vegetal endoderm .
an abnormally necrotic caudal tuberal region .
an abnormally necrotic diaphysis .
an abnormally necrotic cellular bone tissue .
an abnormally necrotic prosomere 4 .
an abnormally necrotic neural progenitor cell .
an abnormally necrotic rectum .
an abnormally necrotic olfactory epithelial support cell .
an abnormally necrotic taste bud .
an abnormally necrotic ventro - lateral marginal zone .
an abnormally necrotic scapula .
an abnormally necrotic animal cap outer layer .
an abnormally necrotic stage v oocyte .
an abnormally necrotic posterior crista .
an abnormally necrotic transverse process .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  right branch .
an abnormally necrotic anterior tectum .
an abnormally necrotic amphibian papilla .
an abnormally necrotic ampullary nerve .
an abnormally necrotic hyaloid vein .
an abnormally necrotic dorso - lateral region .
an abnormally necrotic prosomere 5 .
an abnormally necrotic left atrium .
an abnormally necrotic m . rectus anterior .
an abnormally necrotic mandibular nerve .
an abnormally necrotic accessory olfactory bulb .
an abnormally necrotic dorsal longitudinal anastomosing vessel  -  left branch .
an abnormally necrotic adult thrombocyte .
an abnormally necrotic sclerotome of trunk somite 7 .
an anomaly in visually guided collision avoidance behavior .
an anomaly in schooling behavior .
an anomaly in escape behavior .
an anomaly in surface breathing .
an anomaly in resting posture .
an increased occurrence of swimming behavior .
an increased occurrence of locomotory behavior .
an increased occurrence of feeding behavior .
an increased occurrence of surface breathing .
absence of surface breathing .
a decreased occurrence of swimming behavior .
a decreased occurrence of locomotory behavior .
a decreased occurrence of feeding behavior .
a decreased occurrence of surface breathing .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the actin cytoskeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the prootic bone ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the jaw muscle primordium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the periocular mesenchyme ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cephalic nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the atrioventricular valve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the myofibril ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the cortical actin cytoskeleton ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the neuron projection ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the non - neurogenic ectodermal placode ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the astral microtubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the spindle microtubule ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the buccopharyngeal membrane ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral endoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior endomesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the sarcomere ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the foregut epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the adherens junction ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the frontal nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the intercanthal region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the actin filament ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the mandibular nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pial cell ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the stomach epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the nasociliary nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the pia mater ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tracheal epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior endomesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the m band ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the esophageal epithelium ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the dorsal endomesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the retinal vein ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the roof of mouth ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the maxillary nerve ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the ventral endomesoderm ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the roux spot ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
abnormality of anatomical region .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anatomical region ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
an anomaly in behavior process .
an increase in the size of the hand in the regenerating forelimb .
an increase in the size of the foot in the regenerating hindlimb .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the ventral trunk .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the hindlimb .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the forelimb .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the eye .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the brain .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the spinal cord .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the limb bud .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the tail .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the circulatory system .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the coelom .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the epidermis .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the embryo .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tarsus in the regenerating hindlimb .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of retinal pigmented epithelium .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of whole organism .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of dorsal fin .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of epidermis .
increased or increasing of pigmentation of eye .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of optic nerve .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of head .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of optic stalk .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of dorsal fin .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of epidermis .
decreased or loss of pigmentation of eye .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in embryo .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in archenteron floor .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in foregut .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in prechordal plate .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in dorsal marginal zone .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in endodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in ectodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in mesodermal cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in animal cap .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in epithelium .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in gastrula cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in primordial germ cell .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in eye .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in brain .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in neuroectoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in foregut endoderm .
a decreased occurrence of cell adhesion in foregut epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in embryo .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in archenteron floor .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in foregut .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in prechordal plate .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in dorsal marginal zone .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in endodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in ectodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in mesodermal cell .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in animal cap .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in epithelium .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in neural crest .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in gastrula cell .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in primordial germ cell .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in eye .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in brain .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in neuroectoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in foregut endoderm .
an increased occurrence of cell adhesion in foregut epithelium .
absence of the melanophore in the retinal pigmented epithelium .
absence of the melanophore in the dorsal fin .
absence of the melanophore in the epidermis .
absence of the melanophore in the eye .
absence of the melanophore in the optic nerve .
absence of the melanophore in the head .
absence of the melanophore in the optic stalk .
the presence of an increased number of melanophore in the retinal pigmented epithelium .
the presence of an increased number of melanophore in the dorsal fin .
the presence of an increased number of melanophore in the epidermis .
the presence of an increased number of melanophore in the eye .
the presence of an increased number of melanophore in the optic nerve .
the presence of an increased number of melanophore in the head .
the presence of an increased number of melanophore in the optic stalk .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the retinal pigmented epithelium .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the dorsal fin .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the epidermis .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the eye .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the optic nerve .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the head .
the presence of a reduced number of melanophore in the optic stalk .
a wholly dorsalized tadpole .
a partially dorsalized tadpole .
a wholly ventralized tadpole .
a partially ventralized tadpole .
a wholly anterioralized tadpole .
a partially anterioralized tadpole .
a wholly posterioralized tadpole .
a partially posterioralized tadpole .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tadpole .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in lymphoblast .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior lateral line ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in syndetome .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in chordal neural crest .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tadpole .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lymphoblast .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior lateral line ganglion .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in syndetome .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chordal neural crest .
abnormal location of the melanophore in the retinal pigmented epithelium .
abnormal location of the melanophore in the dorsal fin .
abnormal location of the melanophore in the epidermis .
abnormal location of the melanophore in the eye .
abnormal location of the melanophore in the optic nerve .
abnormal location of the melanophore in the head .
abnormal location of the melanophore in the optic stalk .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tadpole .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in lymphoblast .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior lateral line ganglion .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in syndetome .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in chordal neural crest .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tadpole .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in lymphoblast .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior lateral line ganglion .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in syndetome .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in chordal neural crest .
an abnormal development of the chordal neural crest .
an abnormal development of the syndetome .
an abnormal development of the anterior lateral line ganglion .
an abnormal development of the lymphoblast .
an abnormal development of the axon microtubule bundle .
an abnormal development of the tadpole .
absence of chordal neural crest .
absence of syndetome .
absence of anterior lateral line ganglion .
absence of lymphoblast .
absence of axon microtubule bundle .
absence of tadpole .
an abnormally localised chordal neural crest .
an abnormally localised syndetome .
an abnormally localised anterior lateral line ganglion .
an abnormally localised lymphoblast .
an abnormally localised axon microtubule bundle .
an abnormally localised tadpole .
an abnormally necrotic chordal neural crest .
an abnormally necrotic syndetome .
an abnormally necrotic anterior lateral line ganglion .
an abnormally necrotic lymphoblast .
an abnormally necrotic tadpole .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the chordal neural crest .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the syndetome .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior lateral line ganglion .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the lymphoblast .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the axon microtubule bundle .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tadpole .
an increase in the size of the chordal neural crest .
an increase in the size of the syndetome .
an increase in the size of the anterior lateral line ganglion .
an increase in the size of the lymphoblast .
an increase in the size of the axon microtubule bundle .
an increase in the size of the tadpole .
the presence of an increased number of lymphoblast .
the presence of a reduced number of lymphoblast .
abnormality of chordal neural crest .
abnormality of syndetome .
abnormality of anterior lateral line ganglion .
abnormality of lymphoblast .
abnormality of axon microtubule bundle .
abnormality of tadpole .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the chordal neural crest ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the syndetome ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior lateral line ganglion ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the lymphoblast ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the axon microtubule bundle ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tadpole ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
the presence of a reduced number of skeletal element in the regenerating limb .
a morphological abnormality of the autopod in the regenerating limb .
a morphological abnormality of the stylopod in the regenerating limb .
a morphological abnormality of the zeugopod in the regenerating limb .
a morphological abnormality of the epithelial cell in the foregut endoderm .
abnormal location of the nucleus in the myoblast .
decreased length or shortening of the hindlimb digit in the regenerating tissue .
any abnormal duplication of the eye .
any abnormal duplication of the tibia - fibula .
any structural anomaly that causes femur in the regenerating hindlimb to be y - shaped shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes spike in the regenerating hindlimb to be y - shaped shaped .
abnormal segmentation of the hand in regenerating forelimb .
bifurcation of the blood vessel in regenerating hindlimb .
bifurcation of the tarsus in regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the skeletal muscle in the regenerating forelimb .
absence of the claw in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the tarsus in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the tibia - fibula in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the hindlimb digit 1 in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the hand in the regenerating forelimb .
absence of the foot in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the wound epidermis in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the hindlimb digit 2 in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the hindlimb digit 3 in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the claw of hindlimb digit 4 in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the claw of hindlimb digit 5 in the regenerating hindlimb .
absence of the hindlimb zeugopod in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of a reduced number of muscle in the forelimb .
the presence of a reduced number of muscle in the hindlimb .
the presence of a reduced number of claw in the regenerating hindlimb .
the presence of a reduced number of bipolar neuron in the retinal inner plexiform layer .
the presence of a reduced number of bone element in the forelimb .
the presence of a reduced number of bone element in the hindlimb .
an abnormal configuration of the dorsal - ventral axis such that it is reversed in position ,  order ,  or condition in in hindlimb zeugopod .
an abnormal configuration of the joint region such that it is reversed in position ,  order ,  or condition in in hindlimb .
any structural anomaly that causes tibia - fibula to be u - shaped shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes regenerating forelimb to be conical shaped .
any structural anomaly that causes regenerating forelimb to be increased branchiness shaped .
the presence of an increased number of iridophore in the epidermis .
the presence of an increased number of spike in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the hindlimb digit in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the foot in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the cartilage tissue in the regenerating forelimb .
a morphological abnormality of the cartilage tissue in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the joint in the tarsus .
a morphological abnormality of the nervous system in the hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the iridophore in the hindlimb bud .
a morphological abnormality of the blood vessel in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the neuron in the regenerating tail .
a morphological abnormality of the forelimb digit in the regenerating forelimb .
a morphological abnormality of the pelvic girdle in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the claw in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the tarsus in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the metatarsus in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the tibia - fibula in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the femur in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the cartilage element in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the apical ectodermal ridge in the hindlimb bud .
a morphological abnormality of the hindlimb stylopod in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the hand in the regenerating forelimb .
a morphological abnormality of the joint region in the femur .
a morphological abnormality of the digit - joint region in the regenerating forelimb .
a morphological abnormality of the digit - joint region in the regenerating hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the dorsal - ventral axis in the hindlimb zeugopod .
a morphological abnormality of the bone tissue in the hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the cartilage tissue in the hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the muscle in the hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the cartilage element in the hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the cartilage element in the regenerating forelimb .
a morphological abnormality of the distal mesenchyme in the hindlimb bud .
a morphological abnormality of the joint region in the hindlimb .
a morphological abnormality of the joint region in the hindlimb zeugopod .
wide or increased width of the spike in regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the tarsus in the regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the tibia - fibula in the regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the femur in the regenerating hindlimb .
decreased length or shortening of the neuron in the regenerating tail .
absence of behavior process .
abnormal location of the nucleus in the myotome .
abnormal location of the mitotic spindle in the epithelial cell .
abnormal location of the microtubule in the epithelial cell .
abnormal location of the eye photoreceptor cell in the retinal inner nuclear layer .
abnormal location of the bipolar neuron in the retinal ganglion cell layer .
anatomical structure / expression begins being viable ,  obvious or of utility during this developmental stage .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription mediated by rna polymerase ii .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  resulting a change in cell state that contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
a component of a cell contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase activity .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
the union of male and female gametes to form a zygote .
the process in which the egg becomes metabolically active ,  initiates protein and dna synthesis and undergoes structural changes to its cortex and / or cytoplasm .
a biological process in which an animal physically develops after birth or hatching ,  involving a conspicuous and relatively abrupt change in the animal's form or structure .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell morphogenesis contributing to cell differentiation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endopeptidase activity ,  the endohydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of neuron projection development .
the modification of a protein amino acid by phosphopantetheinylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the wnt signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the bmp signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon outgrowth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of a histone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent addition of methyl groups to histones .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the division of the cytoplasm of a cell ,  and its separation into two daughter cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the stress - activated mapk cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the activity of any activin receptor signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the addition of one or more phosphate groups to a histone protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibroblast growth factor receptor signaling pathway activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cysteine - type endopeptidase activity involved in the apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of map kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the mapkkk cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes involved in the negative regulation of apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction mediated by the jnk cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of insulin receptor signaling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sprouting of an injured axon .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon extension involved in axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axonogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation ,  the change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription involved in the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein kinase b signaling ,  a series of reactions mediated by the intracellular serine / threonine kinase protein kinase b .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of calcium ions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of myofibril assembly by organization of muscle actomyosin into sarcomeres .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of pathway - restricted smad protein phosphorylation .
any process that starts the inactive process of meiosis in an egg after the egg has been fertilized or physiologically activated .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
the negative regulation of fertilization process that takes place as part of egg activation ,  ensuring that only a single sperm fertilizes the egg .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of transcription as a part of the process of egg activation .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that decreases the rate or extent of heart growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling via the stress - activated protein kinase signaling cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron projection regeneration ,  the regrowth of neuronal processes such as axons or dendrites following their loss or damage .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of protein serine / threonine kinase activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the wnt signaling pathway through beta - catenin ,  the series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a wnt protein to a frizzled family receptor on the surface of the target cell ,  followed by propagation of the signal via beta - catenin ,  and ending with a change in transcription of target genes .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a transmembrane receptor serine / threonine kinase binding to its physiological ligand .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that contributes to somitogenic axis elongation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another in a behavioral context ;  the aspect of locomotory behavior having to do with movement .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription by chromatin organization .
any protein phosphorylation process that negatively regulates protein kinase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular response to insulin stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nodal signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a nodal signaling pathway ,  where the nodal signaling pathway is involved in determination of left / right asymmetry .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart looping .
any negative regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that is involved in heart development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in axis elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phosphorylation of rna polymerase ii c - terminal domain .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic cytokinesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of axon guidance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibril organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein folding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleic acid - templated transcription .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in gastrulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in somitogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in neural plate elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of convergent extension involved in notochord morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mapk cascade involved in axon regeneration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of canonical wnt signaling pathway involved in heart development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromatin organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fertilization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spindle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in axis elongation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of non - canonical wnt signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of wnt signaling pathway involved in dorsal / ventral axis specification .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine - type endopeptidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation involved in heart morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of planar cell polarity pathway involved in neural tube closure .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neural precursor cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mesoderm development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ectoderm development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastrulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of thyroid hormone generation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidyl - lysine acetylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a quality of a process which starts earlier than the natural start time or the reference process .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of having changed from one fully differentiated state into another .
gray matter structure located on the midline of the forebrain consisting of the septum pellucidum and the septal nuclei .
the anterior portion of the notochord .
the posterior portion of the notochord .
temporary septum formed from epithelial tissue dividing the esophagus from the trachea .
any of the longitudinal folds in the respiratory diverticulum that fuse to form the tracheoesophageal septum ,  which separates the esophagus from the trachea .
abnormality of telencephalon septum .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the telencephalon septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
an abnormally localised cement gland .
an abnormally localised head .
an abnormally localised neural tube .
an abnormally localised tail .
an abnormally localised utricle .
absence of telencephalon septum .
an abnormally localised telencephalon septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the telencephalon septum .
an increase in the size of the telencephalon septum .
an abnormal development of the telencephalon septum .
an abnormally necrotic telencephalon septum .
abnormal location of the cilium in the gastrocoel roof plate .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the heart .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid in the lung .
an abnormally early start time of metamorphosis .
delayed metamorphosis .
arrested metamorphosis .
abnormal metamorphosis .
decreased metamorphosis .
increased metamorphosis .
lack of metamorphosis .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in auditory apparatus .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in bladder .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in brain .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in bronchus .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in cardiac atrium .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in cardiac ventricle .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in cavitated compound organ .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in eye .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in gall bladder .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in gonad .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in heart .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in intestine .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in kidney .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in larynx .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in left atrium .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in left lymph heart .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in liver .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in lung .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in olfactory organ .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in pancreas .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in right atrium .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in right lymph heart .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in skeletal element .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in solid compound organ .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in spinal cord .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in spleen .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in stomach .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in thymus .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in thyroid .
abnormal change from one fully differentiated cellular state into another in trachea .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in auditory apparatus .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in bladder .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in brain .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in bronchus .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in cardiac atrium .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in cardiac ventricle .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in cavitated compound organ .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in eye .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in gall bladder .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in gonad .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in heart .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in intestine .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in kidney .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in larynx .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in left atrium .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in left lymph heart .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in liver .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in lung .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in olfactory organ .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in pancreas .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in right atrium .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in right lymph heart .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in skeletal element .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in solid compound organ .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in spinal cord .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in spleen .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in stomach .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in thymus .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in thyroid .
the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells in trachea .
complete loss of the ability to move tail .
complete loss of the ability to move forelimb .
complete loss of the ability to move hindlimb .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior notochord .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior notochord .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in transient tracheoesophageal septum .
a decreased occurrence of apoptotic process in tracheoesophageal fold .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior notochord .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior notochord .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in transient tracheoesophageal septum .
a decreased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tracheoesophageal fold .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in anterior notochord .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in posterior notochord .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in transient tracheoesophageal septum .
an increased occurrence of apoptotic process in tracheoesophageal fold .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in anterior notochord .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in posterior notochord .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in transient tracheoesophageal septum .
an increased occurrence of cell population proliferation in tracheoesophageal fold .
an abnormal development of the anterior notochord .
an abnormal development of the transient tracheoesophageal septum .
an abnormal development of the tracheoesophageal fold .
an abnormal development of the posterior notochord .
absence of anterior notochord .
absence of transient tracheoesophageal septum .
absence of tracheoesophageal fold .
absence of posterior notochord .
an abnormally localised anterior notochord .
an abnormally localised transient tracheoesophageal septum .
an abnormally localised tracheoesophageal fold .
an abnormally localised posterior notochord .
an abnormally necrotic anterior notochord .
an abnormally necrotic transient tracheoesophageal septum .
an abnormally necrotic tracheoesophageal fold .
an abnormally necrotic posterior notochord .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the anterior notochord .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the transient tracheoesophageal septum .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the tracheoesophageal fold .
an abnormal reduction in the size of the posterior notochord .
an increase in the size of the anterior notochord .
an increase in the size of the transient tracheoesophageal septum .
an increase in the size of the tracheoesophageal fold .
an increase in the size of the posterior notochord .
abnormality of anterior notochord .
abnormality of transient tracheoesophageal septum .
abnormality of tracheoesophageal fold .
abnormality of posterior notochord .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the anterior notochord ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the transient tracheoesophageal septum ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the tracheoesophageal fold ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
any unspecified morphological anomaly of the posterior notochord ,  such as ,  for example ,  abnormal shape or colour .
abnormal prevention of polyspermy .
