the cerebrospinal fluid - filled spaces inside the brain .
fluid - filled brain cavity .
fluid - filled brain cavity .
meninges that are part of the diencephalon .
meninges that are part of the telencephalon .
meninges that are part of the hindbrain .
meninges that are part of the midbrain .
meninges that are part of the brain .
extraembryonic part of the vein passing through the umbilical cord to the fetus and returning the purified and nutrient blood from the placenta .
a median dividing wall ,  sagitally directed ,  which divides the nasal cavity into the right and the left nasal fossae .
a ridge of mesoderm covered with endoderm that in the early developing embryo divides the endodermal cloaca into the urogenital sinus and the rectum .
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
the first of the two membranous sheets which partially separate the two atria during embryonic development .
the second of the two membranous sheets which partially separate the two atria during embryonic development .
lateral wall that is part of the prosencephalon .
lateral wall that is part of the telencephalon .
specialized brain region derived from the dorsal metencephalon  ( anterior hindbrain ,  and perhaps including posterior midbrain )  .
the part of the forebrain in which the olfactory nerves end and the olfactory tracts originate .
a kidney formed of nephric tubules arising in the anterior region of the nephric ridge ;  forms only as a transient embryonic structure .
a kidney formed of nephric tubules arising in the middle region of the nephric ridge ;  a transient embryonic stage that replaces the pronephros ,  but is itself replaced by the adult metanephros  ( in mammals ;  in fishes and amphibians it is the adult kidney )  .
a kidney formed of nephric tubules arising in the posterior region of the nephric ridge and drained by a ureter ;  replaces the embryonic pronephros and mesonephros  ( in mammals )  .
the part of the pancreas that acts as an exocrine gland ,  consisting of the pancreatic acini ,  which produce pancreatic juice and secrete it into the intestine to aid in protein digestion .
the part of the pancreas that acts as an endocrine gland ,  consisting of the islets of langerhans ,  which secrete insulin and other hormones .
the fixed portion of the small intestine deeply lodged in the posterior wall of the abdomen and extending from the pylorus to the beginning of the jejunum .
the first two fifth of the small intestine beyond the duodenum .
the tract of the alimentary canal .
a group of embryonic cells that loosen and separate from the neural plate and surrounding epidermis during neurulation and migrate to give several different lineages of adult cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
neural crest that is part of the head .
the earliest recognizable dorsal ectodermal primordium of the central nervous system ;  consists of a thickened pseudostratified epithelium .
the brain region between the forebrain anteriorly and the hindbrain posteriorly ,  including the tectum dorsally and the midbrain tegmentum ventrally .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
ganglion which is located in the head .
the outer epithelial layer of the external integument of the body that is derived from the embryonic epiblast .
a transient rod - like structure which is endodermally derived and located immediately ventral to the notochord .
the first - formed kidney duct ,  which drains the kidney of most anamniotes and becomes the ductus deferens of male amniotes .
robust muscular tunic of the heart which forms the basic part of its walls .
layer that lines the lumen of the heart .
axial mesoderm that lies anterior to the notochord and that underlies the forebrain .
region at the periphery of the retina where retinal stem cells are located .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the opaque muscular contractile diaphragm suspended in the aqueous humour in front of the lens of the eye .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of the smooth muscle fibers and suspensory ligaments that attach the lens to the eye .
the portion of the mesoderm underlying the midline of the embryo .
a collagenous layer of the skin subjacent to the epidermis and covering the hypodermis .
the ectodermal rudiment of the trigeminal ganglion .
vein that returns blood from the trunk and joins with the anterior cardinal as the common cardinal vein .
bilaterally paired longitudinal vein ;  the anterior cardinal returns blood from the head ,  and the posterior cardinal returns it from the trunk ;  these two vessels join together on each side as the common cardinal vein  ( duct of cuvier ;  misnamed the vitelline vein )  that leads to the heart's sinus venosus .
vein that returns blood from the head and joins with the posterior cardinal as the common cardinal vein .
area of mesoderm at either side of the midline embryonic notochord that ,  on segmentation ,  forms the paired somites .
the circular orifice in the centre of the iris ,  through which light enters into the eye .
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
the portion of the mesoderm of the trunk of vertebrate embryos lying lateral to the intermediate mesoderm .
external layer of the heart .
outflow artery from the heart to the aortic arches .
paired vessels arching from the ventral to the dorsal aorta through the pharyngeal arches .
the lateral line that is located above the eye .
one of a number of receptor cell nests located in the epithelium of the papillae of the tongue and in the soft palate ,  epiglottis ,  and pharynx that mediate the sense of taste .
the lateral line that is located below the eye .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
an inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into part of the anal passage .
the anterior lobe of the hypophysis  ( pituitary gland )  .
the posterior lobe of the hypophysis  ( pituitary gland )  .
a compound organ which is an endocrine gland located ventral to the diencephalon and derived from mixed neuroectodermal and non neuroectodermal origin .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
primary germ layer that is the middle of the embryo's germ layers .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
one of a series of bony or cartilaginous arches that develop in the walls of the mouth cavity and pharynx of the embryo .
structures containing a collection of nerve cell bodies .
cavitated compound organ which is comprised of gray and white matter and surrounds the cerebral ventricular system .
multi - tissue structure that forms the transparent front part of the eye ,  covering the iris ,  pupil and anterior chamber .
portion of tissue that is comprised of neuroepithelium which has pinched off from the anterior neural tube and will form the optic cup .
ectodermal primordium of the lens of the eye .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye .
portion of tissue that is a transparent ,  biconvex structure located in the eye through which light is focused .
portion of tissue consisting of loosely organized undifferentiated mesodermal cells that give rise to such structures as connective tissues ,  blood ,  lymphatics ,  bone ,  and cartilage .
one of the heart chambers .
heart region collecting blood from the paired common cardinal veins and delivering to the atrium .
the roof of the diencephalon lying above the thalamus .
brain structure which is the largest portion of diencephalon and is ventrally located .
the posterior region of the brain that is continuous with the spinal cord .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
the cavity of the mouth ,  bounded by the jaw bones and associated structures  ( muscles and mucosa )  .
decussation of cranial nerve ii axons whereby some cross the midline and some remain ipsilateral .
undifferentiated mesodermal components of early trunk or tail segments or metameres ,  derived from paraxial mesoderm .
a longitudinal flexible rod of cells that in the embryo forms the supporting axis of the body .
the outer membrane enclosing the embryo in reptiles ,  birds ,  and mammals .
rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs involved in respiration  ( breathing )  .
any of the excretory ducts in the liver that convey bile between the liver and the intestine .
the duct of the gallbladder which joins the common hepatic duct ,  thus forming the common biliary duct .
the duct formed by the union of the common hepatic and cystic ducts .
the duct which drains bile from the right half of the liver and unites with the left hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the duct which drains bile from the left half of the liver and unites with the right hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the excretory duct of the liver or one of its branches in the lobes of the liver .
the duct which conveys the bile from the liver and unites with the cystic duct to form the common bile duct .
membranous muscular sac in which the bile from the liver remains stored until it is required .
trunk ganglion which is located adjacent to the spine on a dorsal root and contains the cell bodies of afferent sensory nerves .
the evagination from the neural tube of the developing embryo which develops the optic cup at its extremity ;  the stalk persists as the optic nerve .
a complex mixture of cells suspended in a liquid matrix that delivers nutrients to cells and removes wastes .
the portion of the eye developing from the optic primordium and including the neural retina and the retinal pigment layer .
the middle membrane of the three mammalian meninges covering the brain and spinal cord .
arachnoid mater that is part of the diencephalon .
arachnoid mater that is part of the midbrain .
the middle membrane of the three mammalian meninges covering the brain and spinal cord .
invagination of thickened epithelium near the hindbrain that gives rise to a spherically shaped ear vesicle .
arachnoid mater that is part of the hindbrain .
fluid - filled toroidal spaces ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in the ear .
the outer of the two layers of the blastoderm that form during gastrulation ,  corresponding to primitive ectoderm during gastrulation and to the definitive ectoderm after gastrulation .
the anterior part of the adenohypophysis .
brain structure which is a short stalk connecting the neurohypophysis with the brain .
one of three fluid - filled toroidal spaces ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
one of three fluid - filled toroidal spaces ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
one of three fluid - filled toroidal spaces ,  arranged orthogonally to each other in each ear .
meckel's cartilage is the bilaterally paired ,  rod - like ,  cartilaginous ventral component of the lower jaw ,  or ventral mandibular arch .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs .
reproductive organ that produces and releases sperm .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
duct connecting the pancreas with the intestine .
vascular ,  glandular internal organ that secretes bile and causes important changes in many of the substances contained in the blood .
dura mater that is part of the diencephalon .
each of the two primary divisions of the trachea leading respectively into the right and the left lung .
each of two arteries starting at the bifurcation of the common carotid arteries through which blood circulates to many structures and organs in the head .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
the outermost and densest membrane of the three mammalian meninges covering the brain and spinal cord .
the organ of sight  ( visual apparatus )  .
blood pumping organ .
any of the major paired nerves of the head region .
the anterior and dorsal forebrain neuromere .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
cranial skeletal elements composed of cartilage and cartilage replacement bones .
the portion of the membranous labyrinth of the ear into which the semicircular ducts find their outlet .
the brain and spinal cord .
organizing center consisting of a small group of cells located at the ventral midline of the neural tube that influences the development of the nervous system ,  governing the specification of neuronal cell types and directing axonal trajectories .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
arched skeletal structure that supports the hind limbs .
the dorsal half of the developing neural tube that is the metencephalon .
the dorsal tubular structure in the vertebrate embryo that develops into the brain and spinal cord .
a mammalian salivary gland located caudal to the ear .
the alimentary or digestive tract ,  and associated organs .
the external part of the organ ,  which consists of an outer portion  ( external auditory meatus )  which leads to the tympanum .
the intermediate portion of the ear which consists of a small air - filled and membrane - lined chamber .
the part of the skull derived from the embryonic pharyngeal arches .
skeletal structure that has as its parts the vertebral column ,  located in the dorsal part of the trunk ,  and formed by a series of vertebrae .
the more posterior and ventral of two forebrain neuromeres ,  the other being the telencephalon ;  major derivatives are the eye cups ,  the brain pretectal region ,  the thalamus ,  hypothalamus ,  and epithalamus  ( including the habenula and epiphysis )  .
a type of muscle used to create movement ,  by applying force to bones and joints .
the ventral half of the developing neural tube that is the metencephalon .
the dorsal half of the developing neural tube that is the myelencephalon .
the ventral half of the developing neural tube that is the myelencephalon .
the dorsal half of the developing neural tube that is the medulla oblongata .
the ventral half of the developing neural tube that is the medulla oblongata .
the organ of hearing and of equilibrium .
skeletal system which is part of the skull ,  including the splanchnocranium ,  chondrocranium ,  and dermatocranium .
organism subdivision that has as its parts the jointed appendages used for locomotion and manipulation .
one of the pair of limbs that are situated posteriorly .
the middle forelimb region .
the proximal forelimb region .
the distal forelimb region .
the middle hindlimb region .
the proximal hindlimb region .
the distal hindlimb region .
the ventral sheet of the primitive mesentery that encloses the stomach .
the dorsal sheet of the primitive mesentery that encloses the stomach .
mesenteric fold extending from the greater curvature of the stomach to the spleen .
a filmy ,  transparent double fold of the peritoneum ,  draping the transverse colon and coils of the small intestine .
a membranous extension of the peritoneum from the peritoneal layers covering the ventral and the dorsal surfaces of the stomach and the first part of the duodenum .
the portion of the primitive mesentery that encloses the stomach ;  from its dorsal sheet ,  the greater omentum develops ,  and from its ventral sheet ,  the lesser omentum .
the shelf separating the oral and nasal cavities that is formed during early embryonic development from protrusions of tissue between the olfactory pits .
one of a pair of small salivary glands situated under the mucous membrane of the floor of the mouth ,  beneath the tongue .
either of two major salivary glands situated in the neck near the lower edge of each side of the mandible and emptying into the submandibular duct .
the respiratory tube between the larynx and the bronchi .
a nerve plexus originating from the anterior branches of the last four cervical and the first thoracic spinal nerves ,  giving off many of the principal nerves of the shoulder ,  chest ,  and arms .
an outgrowth of the otic vesicle that forms the endolymphatic duct and sac during embryonic development .
the most ventral chamber of the membranous labyrinth .
the uppermost of the three regions of the throat  ( pharynx )  ,  situated behind the nasal cavity and extending from the posterior nares to the level above the soft palate .
a gland that produces the saliva .
the outgrowths of the embryonic maxillae that come together during prenatal development to form the secondary palate .
the most anterior region of the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the part of the autonomic nervous system which chiefly contains adrenergic fibres and tends to control and reduce secretions ,  decrease the contractility and hence the tone of smooth muscles and provoke the contraction of blood vessels .
the partition separating the right and left atria of the heart .
the partition separating the right and left ventricles of the heart .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
the serous membrane that covers the lungs and lines the pleural cavity .
nervous system including a portion of the central and peripheral systems and presiding over the control and coordination of the vegetative functions of the organism .
the part of the reproductive system that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
any of the milk - producing apocrine glands typically occurring in pairs in female mammals and consisting of lobes containing clusters of alveoli with a system of ducts to convey the milk to an external nipple or teat .
one of the two major divisions of the nervous system .
vein passing through the umbilical cord to the fetus and returning the purified and nutrient blood from the placenta .
a regulatory system of the body that consists of neurons and neuroglial cells .
anatomical system that consists of the skin and its appendages .
internal organ that is the dilated portion of the alimentary tract situated between the esophagus and the beginning of the duodenum .
dura mater that is part of the hindbrain .
dura mater that is part of the midbrain .
the outermost and densest membrane of the three mammalian meninges covering the brain and spinal cord .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the ventral part of the cloaca after its separation from the rectum ,  giving rise to the lower part of the bladder in both sexes ,  to the prostatic portion of the male urethra ,  and to the urethra and vestibule in the female .
a mobile mass of muscular tissue that is covered with mucous membrane ,  occupies much of the cavity of the mouth ,  forms part of its floor ,  bears the organ of taste ,  and assists in chewing and swallowing .
the orifice which allows the passage from the stomach into the intestine .
the greater curvature of the stomach .
one of the bones of the upper jaw situated between and in front of the maxillae .
the mesentery of the embryonic heart .
one of the heart chambers .
neural plate that is part of the spinal cord .
meninges that are part of the spinal cord .
fibres resembling a ribbon and arranged in very thin plates in the lens .
the inferior portion of the pharynx ,  between the epiglottis and the larynx .
primordium of the tongue ;  the median swelling and the distal and proximal swellings arise from the ventral aspect of the stomodeum .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
the posterior of the two brain vesicles formed by specialization of the rhombencephalon in the developing embryo ,  it comprises the medulla oblongata .
one of the three anatomic divisions of the pharynx that lies posterior to the mouth and is continuous above with the nasopharynx and below with the laryngopharynx .
the lesser sac of the peritoneum .
the external expanded part of the ear characterized by a funnel - shaped structure through which the sound vibrations are received .
the small bones of the middle ear: incus ,  malleus ,  and stapes .
the portion of the alimentary canal between the mouth and the oesophagus .
the small cell produced during the first meiotic division in the maturation of the female gamete ,  or ovum .
the small cell produced during the second meiotic division in the maturation of the female gamete ,  or ovum .
pia mater that is part of the hindbrain .
pia mater that is part of the midbrain .
the innermost of the three mammalian meninges covering the brain and spinal cord .
the innermost of the three mammalian meninges covering the brain and spinal cord .
pia mater that is part of the diencephalon .
pia mater that is part of the telencephalon .
the part of the right lung that is not covered by pleura and through which blood vessels ,  bronchi ,  nerves and lymphatics enter and leave the lung .
the part of the left lung that is not covered by pleura and through which blood vessels ,  bronchi ,  nerves and lymphatics enter and leave the lung .
any of the renal tubules composing the mesonephros .
the coiled portion of the membranous labyrinth located inside the cochlea .
the portion of the right lobe of the liver between the fissure of the ligamentum venosum and the bare area of the liver .
the portion of the right lobe of the liver between the gall bladder ,  the porta hepatis ,  the round ligament and the lower margin of the organ .
the ventral portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the lower jaw .
the dorsal portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the upper jaw .
primitive cell type that is involved in the reproduction of the organism .
the space separating the outer pigment epithelium and the inner neural retina of the optic cup and of the retina .
a monolayer of pigmented epithelium covering the neural retina ;  develops from the outer of the two layers of the optic cup .
a mass of intermediate mesodermal cells around the distal end of the ureteric bud that gives rise to nephrons in the metanephric kidney .
outgrowth of the mesonephric duct that penetrates the metanephric mesoderm and forms the ureter ,  renal pelvis ,  major and minor calyces and collecting ducts .
cranial nerve which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons running posterior medially towards the optic chiasm ,  at which some of the axons cross the midline and after which the structure is termed the optic tract .
surface structure that provides one of the small external openings of the head that give passage to air or water .
one of the paired openings from the nasal cavities into the pharynx .
the conical end of the spinal cord ,  which continues with the filum terminale .
the slender ,  thread - like continuation of the spinal cord below the origin of the lumbar nerves .
the fluid produced by the ciliary process in the eye and occupying the anterior and posterior chambers .
any of the six small muscles that control movement of the eyeball within the socket .
the transparent membrane which surrounds the lens of the eye .
the small blind spot on the surface of the retina .
anatomical space in which the heart is located and is surrounded by the pericardium .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
the eminence in the embryo which develops into the clitoris or penis .
the optic recess of the third ventricle ,  i .e .
the part of the trophectoderm which surrounds the blastocoelic cavity .
each of the two arteries arising from the hypogastric arteries of the fetus and passing throught the umbilical cord to the placenta .
elongated ,  approximately cylindrical part of the central nervous system that lies in the vertebral canal and from which the spinal nerves emerge .
myocardium that is part of the atrium .
myocardium that is part of the outflow tract .
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
the duct of amniotes that carries urine from a metanephric kidney to the urinary bladder .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
myocardium that is part of the bulbus cordis .
myocardium that is part of the right auricular region .
endocardium that is part of the bulbus cordis caudal half .
endocardium that is part of the right auricular region .
endocardium that is part of the interventricular septum .
neural fold that is part of the spinal cord .
fluid - filled brain cavity .
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a break in the continuity of the optic cup where the two sides of the cup meet .
one of a pair of large oval nervous structures made of gray matter and forming most of the lateral walls of the third ventricle of the brain and part of the diencephalon .
an organ thought to supplement the olfactory system in receiving pheromonic communication .
the eminence in the embryo which develops into the clitoris .
the eminence in the embryo which develops into the penis .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species .
a segment of the developing hindbrain .
a depression that forms in the roof of the mouth of an embryo ,  anterior to the buccopharyngeal membrane .
epithelial sheet on the external surface of the somite that gives rise to trunk ,  muscle and dermis .
somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton .
a derivative layer of the trophoblast ,  the cells of which retain their boundaries and contribute to the extraembryonic mesoderm .
a spiral - shaped cavity in the petrous portion of the temporal bone of the inner ear ,  containing the nerve endings essential for hearing and forming one of the divisions of the labyrinth .
cranial nerve that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that innervates muscles in the tongue .
a prominent collection of touch - sensory neurons of the trigeminal or fifth cranial nerve ,  positioned beside the brain between the eye and the ear .
cranial nerve that runs to the ear .
the sensory ganglion of the ear .
cranial nerve ,  also known as the abducent nerve ,  that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that innervates the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius complex of muscles .
cranial nerve that supplies the nasal organ .
cranial nerve that branches into the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve ,  also known as the pathetic nerve ,  that runs to the eye muscles .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
a musculomembranous partition separating the abdominal and thoraic cavities and functioning in respiration .
the muscular chamber on the right and in front of the left ventricle .
thick - walled muscular chamber constituting the left border and apex of the heart .
a thin ,  membranous sac filled with a watery fluid  ( called the amniotic fluid )  in which the embryo or fetus of a reptile ,  bird ,  or mammal is suspended during prenatal development .
a nerve that arises from the caudal cervical nerves and is primarily the motor nerve of the diaphragm but also sends sensory fibers to the pericardium .
a system of communicating epithelial sacs and ducts within the bony labyrinth ,  containing the endolymph .
a fetal canal connecting the bladder with the allantois ,  persisting throughout life as a cord  ( median umbilical ligament )  .
a membranous sac that develops from the posterior part of the alimentary canal in the embryos of mammals ,  birds ,  and reptiles ,  and it is important in the formation of the umbilical cord and placenta in mammals .
a saccular organ in which urine accumulates before discharge from the body .
the anterior of two brain vesicles formed by specialization of the rhombencephalon in the developing embryo .
a group of cells found in the mammalian blastocyst that give rise to the embryo .
the thyroglossal duct is an embryological anatomical structure forming an open connection between the initial area of development of the thyroid gland and its final position .
anterior site of neural tube closure .
posterior site of neural tube closure .
roof plate that is part of the metencephalon .
roof plate that is part of the diencephalon .
roof plate that is part of the midbrain .
roof plate that is part of the prosencephalon .
roof plate that is part of the telencephalon .
roof plate that is part of the myelencephalon .
roof plate that is part of the medulla oblongata .
roof plate that is part of the spinal cord .
floor plate that is part of the midbrain .
floor plate that is part of the prosencephalon .
floor plate that is part of the diencephalon .
floor plate that is part of the telencephalon .
floor plate that is part of the metencephalon .
floor plate that is part of the myelencephalon .
floor plate that is part of the medulla oblongata .
floor plate that is part of the spinal cord .
the blind extremity of the endolymphatic duct .
neural fold that is part of the midbrain .
neural fold that is part of the prosencephalon .
cranial neural crest that is part of the midbrain .
cranial neural crest that is part of the prosencephalon .
cranial neural crest that is part of the diencephalon .
cranial neural crest that is part of the telencephalon .
the fibrous covering of the testicles .
a pitlike depression in the ectoderm of the lens placode where the primordial lens is developing .
the cavity inside the blastula .
the opening of the head through which food passes into the body .
the valve with semilunar cusps at the entrance to the pulmonary trunk from the right ventricle of the heart .
the valve between the left ventricle of the heart and the ascending aorta ,  consisting of three semilunar cusps .
the three - segmented valve of the heart that keeps blood in the right ventricle from flowing back into the right atrium .
a valve of the heart ,  composed of two triangular flaps ,  that is located between the left atrium and left ventricle and regulates blood flow between these chambers .
one of the four structures within the heart that prevent backflow of blood by opening and closing with each heartbeat .
any of the paired nerves emerging from the spinal cord ,  each attached to the cord by two roots: ventral and dorsal ,  and passing out between the vertebrae .
a thickened and indented region in the midline in the floor of the rostral part of the pharyngeal region of the foregut ,  located between the second and third branchial arches that is the first indication of the thyroid primordium .
the quadriceps is a collective term for the rectus femoris and the three heads of the vastus  ( lateralis ,  medialis ,  intermedius )  .
the angle at the end of the palpebral fissure ,  the slit between the eyelids ,  close to the nose .
one of the extraembryonic fetal membranes that balloons out from the fetal midgut .
one of a pair of transverse abdominal muscles that is the anterolateral muscle of the abdomen ,  lying immediately under the internal abdominal oblique .
either of a pair of lingual muscles with origin in the mandible ,  with insertion to the lingual fascia below the mucous membrane and epiglottis ,  with nerve supply from the hypoglossal nerve ,  and whose action depresses and protrudes the tongue .
the potential space between the parietal and visceral layers of the peritoneum ,  which are normally in contact .
the embryonic cartilage capsule that surrounds the inner ear mechanism and develops into bony tissue .
the closed sac between the embryo and the amnion ,  containing the amniotic fluid ."
the polar trophectoderm cells that migrate away from the icm and loose their cell boundaries .
the temporary channel or blood vessel between the aorta and pulmonary artery in the fetus .
the vascular channel in the fetus passing through the liver and joining the umbilical vein with the inferior vena cava .
the extracellular matrix between the myocardium and the endocardium .
cardiac jelly that is part of the bulbus cordis caudal half .
cardiac jelly that is part of the left atrium .
cardiac jelly that is part of the right atrium .
cardiac jelly that is part of the outflow tract .
cardiac jelly that is part of the atrium .
cardiac jelly that is part of the bulbus cordis rostral half .
cardiac jelly that is part of the ventricle .
a pouch that is situated between the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal arch .
a pouch that is situated between the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 4th and 5th pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 1st and 2nd pharyngeal arch .
a pouch that is situated between the 1st and 2nd pharyngeal arch .
a pouch that is situated between the 4th and 5th pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal arch .
the tunica vasculosa lentis is an extensive capillary network ,  spreading over the posterior and lateral surfaces of the lens of the eye .
the outer cellular layer of the mammalian blastocyst .
the part of the trophectoderm overlying the inner cell mass .
one of two arteries ,  leaving from the heart ,  the left one supplying the left lung and the right one supplying the right lung .
myocardium that is part of the interventricular septum .
lymphatic vessels develop from lymph sacs that arise from developing veins ,  which are derived from mesoderm .
cranial neural crest that is part of the spinal cord .
floor plate that is part of the hindbrain .
the dermal maxilla forms part of the upper jaw .
the dentary is a dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw in fishes and amphibians .
a muscle of the stylopodium ,  covering the distal half of the humerus and the anterior part of the elbow joint .
an ectodermal thickening at the end of the forelimb bud in the developing embryo .
an ectodermal thickening at the end of the hindlimb bud in the developing embryo .
one of a pair of openings between the lateral part of the occipital bone and the petrous part of the temporal bones in the skull .
spinal cord structure that is part of the ventricular system and is filled with cerebral - spinal fluid and runs the length of the spinal cord .
one of two pairs of large vessels that return oxygenated blood from each lung to the left atrium of the heart .
an arterial trunk with origin from the right ventricle of the heart ,  and dividing into the right and left pulmonary arteries ,  which enter the corresponding lungs and branch with the bronchi .
a passage through which ova leave the maternal body or pass to an organ communicating with the exterior of the body .
the hollow muscular organ in female mammals in which the blastocyst normally becomes embedded and in which the developing embryo and fetus is nourished .
the genital canal in the female ,  leading from the opening of the vulva to the cervix of the uterus .
the vertebral column consists of a series of vertebrae connected by ligaments .
all serially repeated ossified ,  cartilaginous ,  and ligamentous elements around the notochord .
the narrow channel connecting the nasopharynx and the middle ear .
the thin membrane which closes externally the cavity of the middle ear and is deeply sited at the bottom of the external auditory meatus .
a depression appearing in each otic placode ,  marking the beginnning of embryonic development of the internal ear .
one of the paired sacs of invaginated ectoderm that develop into the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear .
arched skeletal structure that supports the forelimbs .
proximal bone of the forelimb .
proximal bone of the hindlimb .
a small indentation in the central part of the optic placode .
a vesicle formed from the lens pit of the embryo ,  developing into the crystalline lens .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell receptor segments reside .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the dendrites of the ganglion cells .
fiber layer adjacent the retinal ganglion cell layer which is comprised of their axons as they traverse to the optic nerve .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell bodies reside .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the photoreceptor cells .
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
the glandular tissue originating from the fifth branchial pouch which combines with the buccal cavity outgrowth to form the thyroid and contributes calcitonin - secreting cells to the gland .
a common passage for fecal ,  urinary ,  and reproductive discharge in most lower vertebrates as well as the terminal end of the hindgut before division into rectum ,  bladder ,  and genital primordia in mammalian embryos .
ventral part of the cloacal membrane separating the gut from the fetus external environment .
any one of several small structures ,  usually four ,  attached to the dorsal surfaces of the lateral lobes of the thyroid gland .
an aperture in the great wing of the sphenoid for vessels and nerves .
the hard form of connective tissue that constitutes the majority of the skeleton .
the most superficial calf muscle in the posterior part of the leg .
the curving portion between the ascending aorta and the descending aorta ,  giving rise to the brachiocephalic trunk ,  the left common carotid artery ,  and the left subclavian artery .
a membrane that separates the proctodeum and the hindgut in the early embryo .
either of the paired embryonic ducts developing into the uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  and vagina in the female and becoming largely obliterated in the male .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
outpocketings of pharyngeal endoderm that interdigitate with the neural crest derived pharyngeal arches .
portion of tissue which is connective tissue composed of collagen and / or elastin fibers and chondrocytes .
cranial neural crest that is part of the facial region .
cranial neural crest that is part of the hindbrain .
neural fold that is part of the hindbrain .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
the respiratory organ of most aquatic animals that breathe water to obtain oxygen ,  consisting of a filamentous structure of vascular membranes across which dissolved gases are exchanged .
simple squamous epithelium which lines blood vessels and the heart .
the vestibule is the central part of the osseous labyrinth ,  and is situated medial to the tympanic cavity ,  behind the cochlea ,  and in front of the semicircular canals .
an undifferentiated cell produced by early cleavages of the fertilized egg  ( zygote )  .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
myocardium that is part of the left atrium .
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
myocardium that is part of the right atrium .
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
myocardium that is part of the left auricle .
endocardium that is part of the left auricle .
endocardium that is part of the left ventricle .
myocardium that is part of the left ventricle .
endocardium that is part of the right ventricle .
myocardium that is part of the right ventricle .
the filtration unit of the pronephric kidney .
a sensory system on the surface of the animal ,  consisting of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  distributed in discrete lines over the body surface .
portion of the somites giving rise to body wall muscle masses .
a body tissue consisting of long cells that contract when stimulated and produce motion .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
anatomical system that has as its parts the blood and lymph vessels .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph .
any of the vessels through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the heart through the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
anatomical system that provides physical support to the organism .
skeletal structure of the paired ,  posterior appendages .
skeletal structure of the paired ,  anterior appendages .
an epithelium that lines the peritoneal cavity .
a highly specialized segment of the mammalian kidney tubules ,  that dips into the medulla .
the tough ,  usually white ,  outer coat of the eyeball ,  covering all the posterior surface and continuous anteriorly with the cornea .
anatomical system that provides locomotion and physical support to the organism .
anatomical cluster which consists of two or more adjacent bones or cartilages ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue .
portion of organism substance that is a clear fluid that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain .
an epithelium that lines the pericardial cavity .
the muscular wall of the uterus .
connective tissue in which fat is stored .
the mucous membrane lining the uterus .
a fibrous ,  strong ,  connective tissue that connects muscle to bone .
membrane covering the brain and spinal cord .
a diverticulum formed by the dorsal portion of the 1st pharyngeal pouch and that forms the middle ear cavity .
the tentorium cerebelli or cerebellar tentorium  ( latin: 'tent of the cerebellum' )  is an extension of the dura mater that separates the cerebellum from the inferior portion of the occipital lobes .
subarachnoid space that is part of the diencephalon .
subarachnoid space that is part of the hindbrain .
subarachnoid space that is part of the midbrain .
the ringlike cartilage forming the caudal part of the larynx .
a light spongy bone located between the eye sockets ,  forming part of the walls and septum of the superior nasal cavity ,  and containing perforations for the passage of olfactory nerve fibers .
a supporting cell projecting inward from the basement membrane of seminiferous tubules .
the narrow caudal end of the uterus that opens into the vagina .
one of two or three twisted curved tubules in each lobule of the testis in which spermatogenesis occurs .
the largest cartilage of the larynx ,  having two broad processes that join anteriorly to form the adam's apple .
a tuft of capillaries that project into the ventricles of the brain and secretes cerebral spinal fluid .
either of a pair of pouchlike glands situated on each side of the male urinary bladder that secrete seminal fluid and nourish and promote the movement of spermatozoa through the urethra .
portion of tissue that is posterior to the developing notochord during tailbud extension .
the brain structure where the two separate inputs from the two eyes are combined into a single ,  integrated map .
sensory organs are those organs or structures that receive information  ( stimuli )  and translate this information into a signal recognizable to the nervous system .
an aperture in the root of the lesser wing of the sphenoid bone transmitting the optic nerve .
the caudate nucleus is a nucleus located within the basal ganglia of the brains of many animal species .
the part of the eyeball between the cornea and the iris ,  filled with aqueous humor .
endocardium that is part of the bulbus cordis rostral half .
the putamen is a round structure located at the base of the forebrain  ( telencephalon )  .
multi - tissue structure that has as its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain .
the external genital organs of the female ,  including the labia majora ,  labia minora ,  clitoris ,  and vestibule of the vagina .
a gland that secretes sweat ,  found in the dermis or subcutaneous tissue ,  opening by a duct on the body surface .
any of the numerous holocrine glands in the dermis that empty into a hair follicle and produce and secrete sebum .
first of the two openings to perforate the septum primum between the two atria of the embryonic heart .
second of the two openings to perforate the septum primum between the two atria of the embryonic heart .
valve in the heart through which blood flows from the atria to the ventricles .
the canal connecting the primitive atrium and ventricle in fishes and amniotes embryo .
a depression in the front of the vitreous body ,  lodging the lens .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of an immunoglobulin complex .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
cell that is the basic unit of nervous tissue ,  each consisting of a body ,  an axon ,  and dendrites ,  and the purpose of which is to receive ,  conduct ,  and transmit impulses in the nervous system .
type of neuron that is a primary mechanosensory cell ,  with peripheral neurites innervating the skin with free nerve endings .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
each of the canal that connects the pericardial cavity with the peritoneal cavity and becomes a pleural cavity .
each of the folds that grow out from the lateral part of the body wall .
each of the canal that links the peritoneal cavity and the caudal part of a pleural cavity .
any of the renal tubules composing the metanephros .
an embryonic  ( precursor )  cell of the myogenic lineage that develops from the mesoderm .
minute protoplasmic masses that make up organized tissue ,  usually consisting of a nucleus which is surrounded by protoplasm which contains the various organelles and is enclosed in the cell or plasma membrane .
a cell of the b cell ,  t cell ,  or natural killer cell lineage .
a circular hole in the sphenoid bone that connects the middle cranial fossa and the pterygopalatine fossa .
the petrosal bone arises from the two otic bones on the lateral wall of the chondrocranium and encases the inner ear of mammals .
the squamosal bone is part of the dermatocranium in early tetrapods and becomes part of the mammalian occipital and temporal bones .
a dentine - like hypermineralized substance that covers the tooth tip .
the mesentery that suspends the ovary from the dorsal wall of the coelom .
the angle at the end of the palpebral fissure ,  the slit between the eyelids ,  close to the temporal region of the skull .
the fovea is the point at the back of the eyeball where light converges .
mineralized collagen containing substance that forms the tooth structure .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
the thin layer of gray matter lateral to the external capsule ,  separating it from the white matter of the insula .
the largest commissure of the brain connecting the cerebral hemispheres .
the ventral ridge of gray matter in each half of the spinal cord .
the dorsolateral ridge of gray matter in each lateral half of the spinal cord .
cranium which consists of dermally derived bones .
skeletal structure that has as its parts the pectoral and pelvic girdles ,  which articulate with the axial skeleton ,  together with their associated limbs ,  the forelimbs and hind limbs .
a part of the nervous system responsible for processing sensory information .
cell type that contains a deposition of coloring matter .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
the outermost epidermal layer .
a natural killer cell is a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
the terminal portion of the large intestine between the ileo - pelvic colon and the anus .
one of the pair of limbs that are situated anteriorly .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
multi - tissue structure part of the blood vasculature ,  feeds into capillaries .
multi - tissue structure comprised largely of myelinated axons .
multi - tissue structure part of the blood vasculature formed by the anastomosis of capillaries .
multi - tissue comprised of neurons ,  dendrites ,  axon terminals ,  glial cells ,  and capillaries .
the anterior part of the embryonic digestive system deriving from the stomodeal invagination of the ectoderm .
