the production by an organism of new individuals that contain some portion of their genetic material inherited from that organism .
any complex formed of proteins that act in nucleotide - excision repair .
the non - sexual aggregation of single - celled organisms .
protein complex that plays a role in determining cell polarity by directing the localized assembly of actin filaments at polarization sites ;  in saccharomyces the polarisome includes bni1p ,  spa2p ,  pea2p ,  and bud6p .
a protein complex that includes a ubiquitin - protein ligase  ( e3 )  and other proteins that may confer substrate specificity on the complex .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleotide ,  any compound consisting of a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the ribose or deoxyribose moiety .
complex of 3' - 5' exoribonucleases .
a generic term for parts of cells prepared by disruptive biochemical techniques .
a process by which a cell nucleus is divided into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
cyclin - dependent protein kinases  ( cdks )  are heterodimeric enzymes that contain a kinase catalytic subunit associated with a regulatory cyclin partner .
the transcription export  ( trex )  complex couples transcription elongation by rna polymerase ii to mrna export .
the tho complex is a nuclear complex that is required for transcription elongation through genes containing tandemly repeated dna sequences .
a complex which is part of both the general transcription factor tfiih and the nucleotide - excision repair factor 3 complex .
a large multisubunit complex which catalyzes protein degradation .
the union or introduction of genetic information from compatible mating types that results in a genetically different individual .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the centromeric region of dna and provides an attachment point for the spindle microtubules .
a complex of dna and protein located at the end of a linear chromosome that protects and stabilizes a linear chromosome .
a complex comprised of dna wound around a multisubunit core and associated proteins ,  which forms the primary packing unit of dna into higher order structures .
a multisubunit protein complex that plays a central role in chromosome condensation .
a multisubunit complex that is located at the replication origins of a chromosome .
a multiprotein complex composed of gamma - tubulin and other non - tubulin proteins .
protein complex that links the outer microtubule doublet of the ciliary or flagellum axoneme with the sheath that surrounds the central pair of microtubules .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a repeating or polymeric structure ,  such as a polysaccharide or peptidoglycan .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleoside ,  a compound consisting of a purine or pyrimidine nitrogenous base linked either to ribose or deoxyribose .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
the inner segment of a vertebrate photoreceptor containing mitochondria ,  ribosomes and membranes where opsin molecules are assembled and passed to be part of the outer segment discs .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a nucleobase ,  any of a class of pyrmidines or purines ,  organic nitrogenous bases .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with chromatin ,  the network of fibers of dna and protein that make up the chromosomes of the eukaryotic nucleus during interphase .
catalysis of movement along a polymeric molecule such as a microfilament or microtubule ,  coupled to the hydrolysis of a nucleoside triphosphate .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an antigen ,  any substance which is capable of inducing a specific immune response and of reacting with the products of that response ,  the specific antibody or specifically sensitized t - lymphocytes ,  or both .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the cleavage of branch points in branched glycogen polymers .
catalysis of the reaction: ntp  +  h2o = ndp  +  phosphate to drive the unwinding of a dna or rna helix .
catalysis of the incorporation of one atom from molecular oxygen into a compound and the reduction of the other atom of oxygen to water .
catalysis of the transposition of transposable elements or transposons .
mediates the transfer of a signal from the outside to the inside of a cell by means other than the introduction of the signal molecule itself into the cell .
the action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of a complex or assembly within or outside a cell .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a steroid ,  any of a large group of substances that have in common a ring system based on 1 , 2 - cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an odorant ,  any substance capable of stimulating the sense of smell .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal ,  and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
any of the numerous similar discrete openings in the nuclear envelope of a eukaryotic cell ,  where the inner and outer nuclear membranes are joined .
a complex of five polypeptides in eukaryotes ,  and two in prokaryotes ,  that loads the dna polymerase processivity factor proliferating cell nuclear antigen  ( pcna )  onto dna ,  thereby permitting processive dna synthesis catalyzed by dna polymerase .
a protein complex ,  distinct from rna polymerase ,  that associates with dna at promoters or at cis - acting regulatory sequences ,  by direct binding or by interaction with other dna - binding polypeptides or complexes ,  and regulates transcription .
any of a series of ribonucleoprotein complexes that contain rna and small nuclear ribonucleoproteins  ( snrnps )  ,  and are formed sequentially during the splicing of a messenger rna primary transcript to excise an intron .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein enzyme complex ,  with a minimal catalytic core composed of a catalytic reverse transcriptase subunit and an rna subunit that provides the template for telomeric dna addition .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that contains a small nucleolar rna  ( snorna )  and associated proteins ,  and is found in eukaryotic cells .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the protein transport machinery of the mitochondrial inner membrane that contains three essential tim proteins: tim17 and tim23 are thought to build a preprotein translocation channel while tim44 interacts transiently with the matrix heat - shock protein hsp70 to form an atp - driven import motor .
a membrane - bounded organelle that carries materials newly ingested by endocytosis .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the irregular network of unit membranes ,  visible only by electron microscopy ,  that occurs in the cytoplasm of many eukaryotic cells .
a translocation complex that constitutes the specific site of protein translocation across the endoplasmic reticulum ,  which involves the signal recognition particle receptor .
a compound membranous cytoplasmic organelle of eukaryotic cells ,  consisting of flattened ,  ribosome - free vesicles arranged in a more or less regular stack .
a structure comprised of a core structure  ( in most organisms ,  a pair of centrioles )  and peripheral material from which a microtubule - based structure ,  such as a spindle apparatus ,  is organized .
a multienzyme complex required to convert carbohydrates to fatty acids ,  specifically acetyl coa to palmitate .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
several ribosomes bound to one mrna .
any macromolecular complex involved in cleavage or polyadenylation of mrna molecules .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
a protein complex that forms a transmembrane channel through which calcium ions may pass in response to changes in membrane potential .
thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments .
dense covering of microvilli on the apical surface of epithelial cells in tissues such as the intestine ,  kidney ,  and choroid plexus ;  the microvilli aid absorption by increasing the surface area of the cell .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
a protuberance from a cell of an organism that reproduces by budding ,  which will grow larger and become a separate daughter cell after nuclear division ,  cytokinesis ,  and cell wall formation  ( when appropriate )  .
the projection formed by unicellular fungi in response to mating pheromone .
a complex containing a heterodimer of a catalytic subunit and a regulatory  ( adaptor )  subunit of any phosphoinositide 3 - kinase  ( pi3k )  .
a protein complex that catalyzes the reversible oxidation of glycine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides ,  a polymer of more than 20 monosaccharide residues joined by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aldehydes ,  any organic compound with the formula r - ch=o ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a cell derives energy from stored compounds such as fats or glycogen .
the anaerobic enzymatic conversion of organic compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  to other compounds ,  especially to ethyl alcohol ,  yielding energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  .
the phosphorylation of adp to atp that accompanies the oxidation of a metabolite through the operation of the respiratory chain .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna ,  deoxyribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main types of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from one ,  or more commonly ,  two ,  strands of linked deoxyribonucleotides .
the process whereby new strands of dna are synthesized .
the re - formation of a broken phosphodiester bond in the dna backbone ,  carried out by dna ligase .
the maintenance of the integrity of extrachromosomal plasmid dna ;  includes processes that ensure plasmids are retained in the daughter cells after cell division .
the process of restoring dna after damage .
the covalent alteration of one or more nucleotide sites in dna ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
any process by which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
the synthesis of either rna on a template of dna or dna on a template of rna .
the extension of an rna molecule after transcription initiation by the addition of ribonucleotides catalyzed by an rna polymerase .
any process involved in the conversion of one or more primary rna transcripts into one or more mature rna molecules .
the cellular metabolic process by which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the process of assisting in the covalent and noncovalent assembly of single chain polypeptides or multisubunit complexes into the correct tertiary structure .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a protein by the destruction of the native ,  active configuration ,  with the hydrolysis of peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  and compounds derived from amino acids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycerol ethers ,  any anhydride formed between two organic hydroxy compounds ,  one of which is glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the transfer of one - carbon units in various oxidation states .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dioxygen  ( o2 )  ,  or any of the reactive oxygen species ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a xenobiotic compound ,  a compound foreign to living organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ;  includes nitrogen fixation ,  nitrification ,  denitrification ,  assimilatory / dissimilatory nitrate reduction and the interconversion of nitrogenous organic matter and ammonium .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of hydrogen  ( h2 or h +  )  ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the process by which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ;  allows for both recycling of macromolecular constituents under conditions of cellular stress and remodeling the intracellular structure for cell differentiation .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a cell .
a process whereby force is generated within muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
the formation of a syncytium ,  a mass of cytoplasm containing several nuclei enclosed within a single plasma membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cytoplasm .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endoplasmic reticulum .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the golgi apparatus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a peroxisome .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of endosomes .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vacuole .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cell wall ,  the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the process by which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
any protein complex that interacts with rna polymerase ii to increase  ( positive transcription elongation factor )  or reduce  ( negative transcription elongation factor )  the rate of transcription elongation .
the process by which a cell in a multicellular organism interprets its surroundings .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a drug ,  any naturally occurring or synthetic substance ,  other than a nutrient ,  that ,  when administered or applied to an organism ,  affects the structure or functioning of the organism ;  in particular ,  any such substance used in the diagnosis ,  prevention ,  or treatment of disease .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
a protein complex required for sister chromatid cohesion in eukaryotes .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
a complex ,  normally consisting of a catalytic and a regulatory subunit ,  which catalyzes the removal of a phosphate group from a serine or threonine residue of a protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a lipid .
a heterodimer consisting of alpha and a beta subunits that binds to and caps the barbed ends of actin filaments ,  thereby regulating the polymerization of actin monomers but not severing actin filaments .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any part of a bacterial cell .
catalysis of the activation of small proteins ,  such as ubiquitin or ubiquitin - like proteins ,  through the formation of an atp - dependent high - energy thiolester bond .
the directed movement of carbohydrate into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
any process that generates a pyrimidine ,  any nucleobase ,  nucleoside ,  nucleotide or nucleic acid that contains a pyrimidine base ,  from derivatives of them without de novo synthesis .
catalysis of the integration of lambdoid phage dna during establishment ,  probably by forming a transient dna - protein link .
catalysis of the formation of new phosphodiester bonds between a pair of short ,  unique dna target sequences .
any molecular entity that serves as an electron acceptor and electron donor in an electron transport system .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside ,  a nucleobase linked to either beta - d - ribofuranose  ( ribonucleoside )  or 2 - deoxy - beta - d - ribofuranose ,   ( a deoxyribonucleotide )  ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide ,  a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotide - sugars ,  any nucleotide in which the distal phosphoric residue of a nucleoside 5' - diphosphate is in glycosidic linkage with a monosaccharide or monosaccharide derivative .
a proteinaceous hair - like appendage on the surface of bacteria ranging from 2 - 8 nm in diameter .
in the absence of a sexual life cycle ,  the process involved in the introduction of genetic information to create a genetically different individual .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
a protein complex that catalyzes the first step in long - chain fatty acid biosynthesis .
a protein complex comprised of members of the clpx ,  clpc ,  clpd ,  clpp or clpr protein families .
the process by which single - celled organisms monitor their population density by detecting the concentration of small ,  diffusible signal molecules produced by the cells themselves .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a toxin ,  a poisonous compound  ( typically a protein )  that is produced by cells or organisms and that can cause disease when introduced into the body or tissues of an organism .
a complex located in a photosynthetic membrane that consists of a photoreaction center associated with accessory pigments and electron carriers .
any member of a family of organelles found in the cytoplasm of plants and some protists ,  which are membrane - bounded and contain dna .
a membranous cellular structure that bears the photosynthetic pigments in plants ,  algae ,  and cyanobacteria .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a plastid .
the directed movement of hormones into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
catalysis of a ring closure reaction .
the external part of the cell wall and / or plasma membrane .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process of opening or closing of stomata ,  which is directly related to the stomatal conductance  ( measuring rate of passage of either water vapor or carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  through stomata )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mucilage ,  a gelatinous substance secreted by plants .
heterodimeric complex that catalyzes the pyrophosphate - dependent phosphorylation of d - fructose 6 - phosphate into d - fructose 1 , 6 - bisphosphate .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the process by which a segment of dna is incorporated into another ,  usually larger ,  dna molecule such as a chromosome .
facilitates transport across one or more biological membranes but do not themselves participate directly as transporters .
the directed movement of substances that are gaseous in normal living conditions into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of polyols ,  any polyhydric alcohol ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of peptidoglycans ,  a class of glycoconjugates found in bacterial cell walls ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of amines ,  including polyamines ,  organic compounds containing one or more amino groups ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of siderophores ,  low molecular weight fe ( iii )  - chelating substances ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of a drug ,  a substance used in the diagnosis ,  treatment or prevention of a disease ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of lipopolysaccharides into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the smaller of the two subunits of a ribosome .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of methane ,  a colorless ,  odorless ,  flammable gas with the formula ch4 .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which a nucleobase ,  nucleoside or nucleotide is synthesized from another nucleobase ,  nucleoside or nucleotide .
the synthesis by organisms of organic chemical compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  from carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  using energy obtained from light rather than from the oxidation of chemical compounds .
a multiprotein complex that forms a strong mechanical link between the cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix ;  typical of ,  but not confined to ,  muscle cells .
double layer of lipid molecules that encloses all cells ,  and ,  in eukaryotes ,  many organelles ;  may be a single or double lipid bilayer ;  also includes associated proteins .
the specialized microvillar organelle on the apical surfaces of a photoreceptor cell containing the visual pigment rhodopsin and most of the proteins involved in phototransduction .
the process by which a virus reproduces .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
the process by which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving rna ,  ribonucleic acid ,  one of the two main type of nucleic acid ,  consisting of a long ,  unbranched macromolecule formed from ribonucleotides joined in 3' , 5' - phosphodiester linkage .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a cell by a cellular process that begins with the formation of membrane - bounded vesicles in which the transported substances are enclosed or located in the vesicle membrane .
inhibition of the reactions brought about by dioxygen  ( o2 )  or peroxides .
any transcriptional or post - transcriptional process carried out at the cellular level that results in long - term gene inactivation .
a large protein complex that catalyzes the synthesis or hydrolysis of atp by a rotational mechanism ,  coupled to the transport of protons across a membrane .
a large protein complex that catalyzes the synthesis or hydrolysis of atp by a rotational mechanism ,  coupled to the transport of sodium ions across a membrane .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
assists in the delivery of metal ions to target proteins or compartments .
any complex that mediates dynamic changes in eukaryotic chromatin .
large protein complex composed of the rna polymerase core complex and a variety of other proteins including transcription factor complexes tfiia ,  d ,  e ,  f ,  and h which are required for promoter recognition ,  and the mediator subcomplex .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an amino acid ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
an enzyme complex composed of two proteins ,  dinitrogenase and nitrogenase reductase ;  dinitrogenase is tetrameric with an alpha2 - beta2 structure and nitrogenase reductase is a homodimer ,  and both are associated with metal ions ,  which differ between species .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
a complex of proteins which includes the insulin - like growth factor  ( igf )  and a number of igf - binding proteins .
a protein complex that possesses activity that prevents or downregulates transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a drug ,  a substance used in the diagnosis ,  treatment or prevention of a disease ;  as used here antibiotic substances  ( see antibiotic metabolism )  are considered to be drugs ,  even if not used in medical or veterinary practice .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organometals ,  any metal - containing organic compound ,  especially one in which the metal atom is linked directly to one of more carbon atoms .
the complete fully infectious extracellular virus particle .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of an acetyl group or groups from a substrate molecule .
catalysis of the removal of an amino group from a substrate ,  producing ammonia  ( nh3 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in many of the chemical changes of compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with oxygen  ( o2 )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any isoprenoid compound ,  isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  or compounds containing or derived from linked isoprene  ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenylene )  residues .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
long whiplike or feathery structures borne either singly or in groups by the motile cells of many bacteria and unicellular eukaryotes and by the motile male gametes of many eukaryotic organisms ,  which propel the cell through a liquid medium .
a membrane - bounded organelle found in organisms from the order kinetoplastida that houses the enzymes of glycolysis .
an electron - dense acidic membrane - bounded organelle which contains a matrix of pyrophosphate and polyphosphates with bound calcium and other cations .
the initial attachment of a membrane or protein to a target membrane .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a part of the cell .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate or other organism .
a protein - pigment complex that may be closely or peripherally associated to photosynthetic reaction centers that participate in harvesting and transferring radiant energy to the reaction center .
a viscous ,  carbohydrate rich layer at the outermost periphery of a cell .
a crystalline protein layer surrounding some bacteria .
any of several heterotetrameric complexes that link clathrin  ( or another coat - forming molecule ,  as hypothesized for ap - 3 and ap - 4 )  to a membrane surface ;  they are found on coated pits and coated vesicles ,  and mediate sorting of cargo proteins into vesicles .
thin ,  stiff protrusion extended by the leading edge of a motile cell such as a crawling fibroblast or amoeba ,  or an axonal growth cone ;  usually approximately 0 .1 um wide ,  5 - 10 um long ,  can be up to 50 um long in axon growth cones ;  contains a loose bundle of about 20 actin filaments oriented with their plus ends pointing outward .
modulates the activity of an enzyme .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any carbohydrate ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell .
an envelope that surrounds a bacterial cell and includes the cytoplasmic membrane and everything external ,  encompassing the periplasmic space ,  cell wall ,  and outer membrane if present .
any part of a cell where non - isotropic growth takes place .
a structure composed of peptidoglycan and often chitin in addition to other materials .
any process by which an organism enters and maintains a periodic ,  readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity .
a thin cytoplasmic bridge formed between daughter cells at the end of cytokinesis .
plays a role in regulating transcription ;  may bind a promoter or enhancer dna sequence or interact with a dna - binding transcription factor .
a macromolecular complex containing both protein and rna molecules .
a complex composed of rna of the small nuclear rna  ( snrna )  class and protein ,  found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell .
a ribonucleoprotein complex that catalyzes cleavage of the leader sequence of precursor trnas  ( pre - trnas )  ,  generating the mature 5' end of trnas .
any complex of pre - rrnas ,  ribosomal proteins ,  and associated proteins formed during ribosome biogenesis .
any of several heterodimers containing one or two noc proteins ,  associated with preribosomal complexes ;  involved in ribosome biogenesis .
any complex that possesses rna polymerase activity ;  generally comprises a catalytic subunit and one or more additional subunits .
a multi - component enzymatic machine at the replication fork which mediates dna replication .
a conserved multimeric membrane - associated complex involved in retrograde transport from endosomes to the golgi apparatus .
complex that possesses adpg pyrophosphorylase activity .
an integral membrane complex that possesses nadh oxidoreductase activity .
a nonmembrane - bound oliogmeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support for cells or tissues ;  may be completely external to the cell  ( as in animals )  or be part of the cell  ( as in plants )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a microtubule organizing center ,  a structure from which microtubules grow .
a complex that possesses glutamate synthase activity .
the dna metabolic process by which micronuclear - limited sequences ,  internal eliminated sequences  ( ies )  and breakage eliminated sequences  ( bes )  are removed from the developing macronucleus  ( anlage )  of a ciliate .
any complex that acts to move proteins or rnas into or out of the nucleus through nuclear pores .
any of several protein complexes required for the biogenesis of specialized organelles of the endosomal - lysosomal system ,  such as melanosomes ,  platelet dense granules ,  and other related organelles ;  acronym for biogenesis of lysosomal - related organelles complex .
a network of membrane - bounded compartments found in blood platelets ,  where they regulate platelet activation by sequestering or releasing calcium .
any of several heterooligomeric complexes containing multiple septins .
a temporary protrusion or retractile process of a cell ,  associated with flowing movements of the protoplasm ,  and serving for locomotion and feeding .
an endoplasmic reticulum membrane - associated complex involved in the translocation of proteins that are targeted to the er .
a complex that catalyzes the transfer of an acetyl group to a protein acceptor molecule .
the area of a motile cell closest to the direction of movement .
the area of a motile cell opposite to the direction of movement .
a protein complex formed by the association of signaling proteins with a death receptor upon ligand binding .
any protein complex that mediates the effects of small interfering rnas on gene expression .
any complex that possesses ubiquitin conjugating enzyme activity .
acting as an indicator or marker to facilitate recognition by other molecules in the cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a carboxylic acid ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  e .g .
an organelle found in bacteria consisting of a proteinaceous coat containing metabolic enzymes whose purpose is the sequestration or concentration of metabolites and which has the appearance of a polygonal granule by electron microscopy .
a complex that posseses mannosyltransferase activity .
a chromatin - associated multiprotein complex containing polycomb group proteins .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of cells of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process that affects the structure and integrity of a protein by altering the likelihood of its degradation or aggregation .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane or protein .
the biological transducer activity that accepts energy and converts it to another form ,  often by transfer to another molecule within the cell .
a cell extension characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusions .
the eventual plane of cell division  ( also known as cell cleavage or cytokinesis )  in a dividing cell .
the slender tubular outgrowth first produced by most spores in germination .
any process involved in mediating the movement of discrete segments of dna between nonhomologous sites .
any complex formed of proteins that act in mismatch repair .
the process by which a transformation is induced in the geometry of a dna double helix ,  resulting in a change in twist ,  writhe ,  or both ,  but with no change in linking number .
an actin - based ,  cross - linked cellular protrusion on the apical surface of auditory and vestibular hair cells .
catalysis of the removal of a methyl group from a substrate .
a complex that possesses di - trans , poly - cis - decaprenylcistransferase activity ;  involved in ubiquinone biosynthesis .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the process by which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
a protein complex composed of a subunit or subunits capable of binding the fc portion of an immunoglobulin with additional signaling components .
a protein complex that promotes nucleoprotein filament formation during homologous recombination ;  most known examples contain two or more reca family proteins  ( often rad51 paralogs )  .
a membrane - bounded extension of the cell ,  originally characterized in mycoplasma species ,  that contains an electron - dense core that is part of the cytoskeleton and is oriented lengthwise and ends distally in a bulbous knob  ( terminal button )  .
a protein complex that possesses dna helicase activity .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a protein complex containing an i - kappab protein and one or more copies of an nf - kappab protein ;  mediates regulation of nf - kappab activity by i - kappab .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a complex ,  carried out at the cellular level .
a multimeric complex that is able to catalyze the addition of methyl groups to histone proteins .
a long ,  thin ,  polarized cell projection that contains actin and can extend for distances many times the diameter of the cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a phthalate ,  any ester or salt of phthalic acid .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
the directed movement of substances that are in liquid form in normal living conditions into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
providing the environmental signal that initiates the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a higher concentration of that signal .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving neurotransmitters ,  any of a group of substances that are released on excitation from the axon terminal of a presynaptic neuron of the central or peripheral nervous system and travel across the synaptic cleft to either excite or inhibit the target cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a neurotransmitter ,  any chemical substance that is capable of transmitting  ( or inhibiting the transmission of )  a nerve impulse from a neuron to another cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the process of the formation of the constituents of the ribosome subunits ,  their assembly ,  and their transport to the sites of protein synthesis .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with peptides ,  any of a group of organic compounds comprising two or more amino acids linked by peptide bonds .
the periodic casting off and regeneration of an outer covering of cuticle ,  feathers ,  hair ,  horns ,  skin ,  etc .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affect the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
a spherical ,  membrane - bounded organelle found in some anaerobic protozoa ,  which participates in atp and molecular hydrogen formation .
a protein complex that possesses dna polymerase activity and is involved in template directed synthesis of dna .
cytoplasmic organelles ,  spherical or oval in shape ,  that are bounded by a single membrane and contain oxidative enzymes ,  especially those utilizing hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  .
the region between the inner  ( cytoplasmic )  and outer membrane  ( gram - negative bacteria )  or inner membrane and cell wall  ( fungi )  .
a protective ,  noncellular membrane that surrounds the eggs of various animals including insects and fish .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc alpha chain and ,  in most cases ,  either an mhc class ii beta chain or an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide ,  lipid ,  or polysaccharide antigen .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving poly ( 3 - hydroxyalkanoates )  ,  polyesters of 3 - hydroxyacids produced as intracellular granules by a large variety of bacteria .
a process whereby microorganisms irreversibly attach to and grow on a surface and produce extracellular polymers that facilitate attachment and matrix formation ,  resulting in an alteration in the phenotype of the organisms with respect to growth rate and gene transcription .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pheromones ,  a substance that is secreted and released by an organism and detected by a second organism of the same or a closely related species ,  in which it causes a specific reaction ,  such as a definite behavioral reaction or a developmental process .
a large ,  multisubunit complex which consists of the mhc class i - beta 2 microglobulin dimer ,  the transporter associated with antigen presentation  ( tap )  ,  tapasin  ( an mhc - encoded membrane protein )  ,  the chaperone calreticulin and the thiol oxidoreductase erp57 .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of a xenobiotic ,  a compound foreign to living organisms ,  into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any complex of rna and protein .
the portion of a cell bearing surface projections such as axons ,  dendrites ,  cilia ,  or flagella that includes the nucleus ,  but excludes all cell projections .
a protein complex whose composition varies amongst species ;  in rice it probably exists in a homo - tetramer to homo - hexamer form and in gram - negative bacteria as a dimer .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures in the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
any process which produces a useful metabolic compound from derivatives of it without de novo synthesis ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that generates a purine ,  any nucleobase ,  nucleoside ,  nucleotide or nucleic acid that contains a purine base ,  from derivatives of them without de novo synthesis .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cell envelope ,  everything external to ,  but not including ,  the cytoplasmic membrane of bacteria ,  encompassing the periplasmic space ,  cell wall ,  and outer membrane if present .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with ions ,  charged atoms or groups of atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an alcohol ,  any of a class of alkyl compounds containing a hydroxyl group .
a complex for the transport of metabolites into and out of the cell ,  typically comprised of four domains ;  two membrane - associated domains and two atp - binding domains at the intracellular face of the membrane ,  that form a central pore through the plasma membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring outside the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any macromolecular complex composed of two or more polypeptide subunits ,  which may or may not be identical .
any protein complex that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
a large ,  extracellular glycoprotein complex composed of three different polypeptide chains ,  alpha ,  beta and gamma .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving biopolymers ,  long ,  repeating chains of monomers found in nature ,  such as polysaccharides and proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of biopolymers ,  long ,  repeating chains of monomers found in nature e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of biopolymers ,  long ,  repeating chains of monomers found in nature e .g .
catalysis of a reaction that generates a free radical ,  a highly reactive molecule with an unsatisfied electron valence pair .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological polymer ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alkane ,  any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alkene ,  any cyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having one carbon - carbon double bond and the general formula cnh2n ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alkyne ,  any cyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having a carbon - carbon triple bond and the general formula cnh2n - 2 ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in an organism ,  tissue or cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any component on the surface of a cell .
a process by which muscle adapts ,  with consequent modifications to structural and / or functional phenotypes ,  in response to a stimulus .
heterodimeric hormone composed of an inhibin alpha subunit complexed with either an inhibin beta - a subunit ,  to form inhibin a ,  or an inhibin beta - b subunit ,  to form inhibin b .
a multimeric protein complex involved in the methylation of specific nucleotides in trna .
the structures that lie outside the inner membrane and surround the entire endospore ;  consists of a peptidoglycan - containing inner layer  ( the endospore cortex )  surrounded by a multilayered proteinaceous coat .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process by which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
the region of a polarized cell that forms a tip or is distal to a base .
the region of a cell situated near the base .
any substance involved in the initiation ,  activation ,  perpetuation ,  repression or termination of polypeptide synthesis at the ribosome .
the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell ;  the site of interneuronal communication .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of external structures that lie outside the plasma membrane and surround the entire cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the capsule ,  a protective structure surrounding some species of bacteria and fungi .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a slime layer .
any of the heteromeric enzymes that act in the tca cycle .
a protein complex containing flavin adenine dinucleotide  ( fad )  and acyl - coa dehydrogenase ,  which form a system that oxidizes an acyl - coa molecule and reduces ubiquinone and other acceptors in the mitochondrial electron transport system .
a complex of multiple copies of three enzymatic components: oxoglutarate dehydrogenase  ( lipoamide )   ;  ec:1 .2 .4 .2  ( e1 )  ,  dihydrolipoamide s - succinyltransferase  ;  ec:2 .3 .1 .61  ( e2 )  and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase  ;  ec:1 .8 .1 .4  ( e3 )  ;  catalyzes the overall conversion of 2 - oxoglutarate to succinyl - coa and carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  .
a complex of a regulatory and catalytic subunit that catalyzes the dephosphorylation and concomitant reactivation of the alpha subunit of the e1 component of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex .
complex that carries out the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate to form acetyl - coa ;  comprises subunits possessing three catalytic activities: pyruvate dehydrogenase  ( e1 )  ,  dihydrolipoamide s - acetyltransferase  ( e2 )  ,  and dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase  ( e3 )  .
a part of the respiratory chain ,  containing the four polypeptide subunits of succinate dehydrogenase ,  flavin - adenine dinucleotide and iron - sulfur .
a protein complex that transfers electrons from ubiquinol to cytochrome c and translocates two protons across a membrane .
a part of the respiratory chain ,  containing the 13 polypeptide subunits of cytochrome c oxidase ,  including cytochrome a and cytochrome a3 .
a protein complex that posttranscriptionally catalyzes insertion ,  deletion or substitution of nucleotides at multiple sites within nascent mrna transcripts to produce mature mrnas in eukaryotes .
the enzymatic release of energy from organic compounds  ( especially carbohydrates and fats )  which either requires oxygen  ( aerobic respiration )  or does not  ( anaerobic respiration )  .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the fusome ,  a large intracellular spectrin - rich structure found in insect germline cells and mammalian hematopoietic cells .
providing the environmental signal that initiates the directed movement of a motile cell or organism towards a lower concentration of that signal .
functions in the storage of nutritious substrates .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving isopentenyl diphosphate ,  an isomer of dimethylallyl diphosphate and the key precursor of all isoprenoids .
a protein or protein - rna complex that localizes to one or more of the sex chromosome ( s )  ,  where it acts to normalize transcription between different sexes .
the directed movement of a virion into ,  out of ,  or within a host cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with the surface of a host cell .
the directed movement of isoprenoids into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell ,  a group of cells ,  or a tissue .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a tetrapyrrole ,  a compound containing four pyrrole nuclei variously substituted and linked to each other through carbons at the alpha position .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ketone bodies ,  any one of the three substances: acetoacetate ,  d - 3 - hydroxybutyrate  ( beta - hydroxybutyrate )  or acetone ,  as carried out by individual cells .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cofactor ,  a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein .
a nonsteroidal regulator ,  composed of two covalently linked inhibin beta subunits ,  inhibin beta - a and inhibin beta - b  ( sometimes known as activin beta or activin / inhibin beta )  .
the matrix external to the cell ,  composed of the cell wall and middle lamella .
the creation of a single organelle from two or more organelles .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the partitioning of organelles between daughter cells at cell division .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for a cell to attain its fully functional state .
a protein complex that mediates the conversion of a holliday junction into two separate duplex dna molecules ;  the complex includes a single -  or multisubunit helicase that catalyzes the extension of heteroduplex dna by branch migration and a nuclease that resolves the junction by nucleolytic cleavage .
a complex containing either both large and small subunits or just small subunits which carries out the activity of producing 3 - phosphoglycerate from carbon dioxide and ribulose - 1 , 5 - bisphosphate .
a complex of protein and rna which facilitates translocation of proteins across membranes .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a pigment granule .
the reorganization or renovation of existing tissues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving depsipeptides ,  a linear or cyclic compound composed of both amino acids and hydroxy acids in peptide and ester bonds respectively .
the process by which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with water  ( h2o )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a component of the extracellular matrix .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
any physiological process involved in changing the position of a multicellular organism or an anatomical part of a multicellular organism .
any of the hormonal ,  neural ,  and secretory processes that release products into the blood or lymph .
a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process by which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in a specific location .
the directed movement of vitamins into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the directed movement of a cofactor into ,  out of ,  within or between cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a cofactor ,  a substance that is required for the activity of an enzyme or other protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a prosthetic group ,  the non - amino acid portion of certain protein molecules .
catalysis of the incorporation of both atoms of oxygen from one molecule of o2 into the  ( reduced )  substrate .
the directed movement of a cell ,  substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  to a specific location .
the process of creating protein polymers ,  compounds composed of a large number of component monomers ;  polymeric proteins may be made up of different or identical monomers .
the process by which protein polymers ,  compounds composed of a large number of component monomers ,  are broken down .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the process resulting in the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cluster of atoms including both metal ions and nonmetal atoms ,  usually sulfur and oxygen .
the process leading to the attainment of the full functional capacity of a protein .
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
any process by which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process by which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
any process by which an organism has an effect on an organism of the same species .
any process by which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process by which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving phytoalexins ,  any of a range of substances produced by plants as part of their defense response .
the interconnected protoplasts of a plant .
the molecular function that accepts an input of one form and creates an output of a different form .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more molecules ,  permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of macromolecules to form a complex .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any biological process ,  quality or function .
a protein complex that consists of a dimeric transforming growth factor beta  ( tgf - beta )  type ii receptor bound to a tgf - beta1 dimer .
a protein complex that is formed by the association of a ligand - bound tgf - beta type ii receptor dimer with a tgf - beta type i receptor dimer .
a protein complex that is formed by the association of a heterodimeric interleukin - 12 receptor complex with an interleukin - 12 heterodimer .
a protein complex that contains the cell surface signaling molecule cd19 ,  the ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor vav ,  and the regulatory subunit alpha of phosphatidylinositol 3 - kinase  ( pi3k )  .
a protein complex that is formed by the association of a heterodimeric interleukin - 4 receptor complex with an interleukin - 4 molecule .
a long ,  thin cell projection that contains f - actin and tubulin ,  with microtubules centrally located and f - actin peripherally located .
a protein complex containing three of the five subunits of eukaryotic replication factor c ,  those corresponding to human p40 ,  p38 ,  and p37 .
a complex of dna and protein located at the end of a linear chromosome that enables replication of the telomeric repeat sequences at the end of a linear chromosome .
