an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
biological process during which certain cells of a female or male individual  ( parent )  are transformed into specialized reproductive cells  ( gametes )  that will initiate development of a progeny individual  ( offspring )  upon fertilization .
period during which female gametes  ( or oocytes ,  or eggs )  develop and mature from primordial female germ cells to generate cells competent to further development upon fertilization by a mature spermatozoid .
a female gamete that is small in size ,  i .e .
a developing female gamete that started growing in size by accumulation of yolk proteins .
a developing female gamete that has reached its full size .
a developing female gamete that has reached its full size and in which the germinal vesicle has moved asymmetrically to the cell periphery .
a developing female gamete in which the germinal vesicle has broken down .
a mature female gamete that has achieved its meiotic maturation and in which the female pronucleus is visible .
period during which male gametes  ( or spermatozoa ,  or spermatozoid )  develop and mature from primordial male germ cells to generate cells competent to further development upon fertilization of a mature oocyte .
a developing ,  immature male gamete undergoing mitosis and meiosis to ultimately produce mature spermatozoa .
a mature male gamete that is composed of a head ,  encompassing a compact nucleus ,  a neck ,  a middle piece ,  and a tail  ( or flagellum )  that propels it towards the oocyte upon spawning .
biological process during which the embryo forms .
a fertilized egg ,  right after fertilization .
period during which the fertilized egg undergoes a succession of rapid cell divisions with no significant growth .
an embryo that is composed of two cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
an embryo that is composed of four cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
an embryo that is composed of eight cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
an embryo that is composed of 16 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
an embryo that is composed of 28 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
an embryo that is composed of 32 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
an embryo that is composed of 56 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
an embryo that is composed of 60 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
period during which the embryo is transformed into a hollow sphere that is one cell layer thick and encompasses a central ,  fluid - filled cavity called the blastocoel .
the embryo is composed of 110 - 120 cells ,  as most blastomeres have completed an additional mitotic division after the 60 - cell stage .
the embryo is composed of slightly more than 200 cells ,  as most blastomeres have completed an additional mitotic division after the very early blastula stage .
the embryo is composed of about 300 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
the embryo is composed of about 400 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
the embryo is composed of about 800 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
the embryo has hatched from the fertilization envelope and swims freely .
the embryo has started elongated along the animal - vegetal axis .
period during which complex and coordinated cellular movements take place and ultimately generate a three - layered embryo with inner tissues .
the phase during which skeletogenic primary mesenchyme cells  ( pmcs )  move from the vegetal plate into the blastocoel  ( ingress )  but before the vegetal plate has started to invaginate .
the vegetal plate is apparent and skeletogenic primary mesenchyme cells  ( pmcs )  are in the process of ingression ,  a type of epithelial–mesenchymal transition  ( emt )  .
all skeletogenic primary mesenchyme cells  ( pmcs )  have ingressed into the blastocoel ,  leaving behind a reformed vegetal plate containing at its center the 8 small micromere descendants surrounded by non - skeletogenic mesoderm cells .
the skeletogenic primary mesenchyme cells  ( pmcs )  have migrated away from the vegetal plate by extending filopodia and moving along the blastocoel wall .
period during which the inpocketing and elongation of the archenteron takes place .
the embryo is  characterized morphologically by a slight invagination of the vegetal plate and the dispersal of the skeletogenic primary  mesenchyme cells  ( pmcs )  along the blastocoel wall at the periphery of the invaginating region .
the embryo is mainly characterized morphologically by the presence in the blastocoel of a small archenteron  ( i .e .
the embryo is mainly characterized morphologically by the presence of an archenteron  ( i .e .
the embryo is mainly characterized morphologically by the presence in the blastocoel of a fully extended archenteron  ( i .e .
to be written
the embryo is mainly characterized morphologically by a typical triangular shape ,  the beginning of the tripatition of the digestive tract and the presence of pigmented cells .
biological process during which the specific outcome is the progression of a free - living larva before the development of the adult .
the embryo is by now a fully formed pluteus larva .
the 4 - arm pluteus larva is mainly characterized morphologically by the presence ,  on the ventral side ,  of four extended arms  ( two anterolateral arms at the level of the oral hood and two postoral arms )  and on the dorsal side by a sleeked apex .
to be written
the 6 - arm pluteus larva is mainly characterized morphologically by the presence ,  on the ventral side ,  of six arms ,  and by the development ,  on the anterior midline of the esophagus ,  of the dorsal arch .
the 8 - arm pluteus larva is mainly characterized morphologically by the presence on the ventral side of the larva of eight arms and by the development within the larva ,  on the left side of the stomach ,  of the adult rudiment .
the competent pluteus larva is mainly characterized morphologically by the presence ,  on the ventral size ,  of still 8 arms and by the presence on the left side of the stomach of the rudiment that is now the size of or even bigger than the stomach .
the metamorphic larva stage consists essentially of the evagination of the echinoid rudiment .
biological process during which changes occur in biological and psychological domains to generate a sexually mature animal .
period during which a young individual ,  posing as a small adult ,  grows but remains unable to reproduce .
the early juvenile is morphologically similar to both the late rudiment and a miniature sea urchin adult .
the late juvenile really looks like a small adult .
period during which the animal reaches sexual maturity .
this stage corresponds to a fully formed pentaradial sea urchin that has reached sexual maturity .
the embryo is composed of about 800 cells and is surrounded by a fertilization envelope .
stage when the vegetal plate is apparent but primary mesenchyme cells  ( pmcs )  have not started to ingress .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome
a system that has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
a region of the whole organism without well - defined compartmental boundaries
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of one cell or more
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell
anatomical entity that comprises the animal in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the gastrointestinal tract that is being formed during embryonic development starting with the formation of the primitive gut tube  ( or archenteron ) 
organ system responsible for the food uptake and processing in the larva
anatomical system that processes ingested substances in the adult
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction ,  i .e .
the sum of all the structures in the embryo that will develop into the larval nervous system
the sum of all the neural structures present in the larva
internal support structure of an animal composed of mineralized tissue .
the water vascular system is a hydraulic system used by sea urchins for locomotion ,  food and waste transportation ,  and respiration .
the hemal system contains the blood .
anatomical region that corresponds to the upper half of the embryo ,  which later is composed of the mesomeres ,  and ultimately encompasses the presumptive ectoderm
anatomical region that corresponds to the lower half of the embryo ,  which later is composed of the macromeres and the micromeres ,  and ultimately encompasses the endoderm and mesoderm
cell component comprising the outermost layer of the animal region of the oocyte .
cell component comprising the outermost layer of the vegetal region of the oocyte .
the apical region of the animal hemisphere
the apical most region of the vegetal hemisphere .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane
anatomical structure that is part of a cell and that has a granularity level equal to that of a protein complex or higher .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system
any anatomical structure that is part of an embryo
any anatomical structure that is part of a larva
any anatomical structure that is part of a juvenile
any anatomical structure that is part of an adult
a membrane - bounded organelle of in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
a female haploid germ cell .
the enlarged ,  fluid filled nucleus of a primary oocyte ,  the development of which is suspended in prophase i of the first meiotic division between embryohood and sexual maturity
the subequatorial accumulation of pigment granules  ( the so - called ‘pigment band’ )  in eggs or early stage embryos ,  which constitutes an unambiguous marker of animal - vegetal polarity
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the egg .
a mature male germ cell
a small cell formed by the meiotic division of an oocyte
the part of the late spermatid or spermatozoon that contains the nucleus and acrosome .
a microtubule - based flagellum  ( or cilium )  that is part of a sperm ,  a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid
an organelle that develops over the anterior half of the head in the spermatozoa
a mature female gamet that has entered meiosis .
an undifferentiated cell produced by early cleavages of the fertilized egg  ( zygote ) 
intermediate size blastomere forming the animal hemisphere of the cleaving embryo
larger blastomere of the vegetal hemisphere of the cleaving embryo located below the equator
small blastomere of the vegetal hemisphere of the cleaving embryo located at to the vegetal pole
a progenitor cell of the nervous system that will develop into a neuron
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
group of four cells of equal size forming the animal hemisphere of an eight - cell stage embryo
group of four cells of equal size forming the vegetal hemisphere of an eight - cell stage embryo
a triradiate or hexaradiate minute calcareous skeletal element that initiates most if not all skeletal structures found within the sea urchin embryo ,  larva and adult .
the embryonic tissue made up of loosely connected mesoderm cells that will produce all of the skeletal elements .
the subset of the embryonic mesoderm that will later give rise to the skeletogenic mesenchyme and embryonic skeleton .
anatomical structure composed of skeletogenic mesenchyme cells that have fused to form a single syncytial network .
subpopulation of skeletogenic mesenchyme forming a chain on the oral  ( i .e .
subpopulation of skeletogenic mesenchyme forming a chain on the aboral  ( i .e .
subpopulation of skeletogenic mesenchyme forming a cluster  ( i .e .
subpopulation of skeletogenic mesenchyme forming a chain on either side of the developing digestive tract ,  along the blastocoel wall and towards the animal pole .
subpopulation of skeletogenic mesenchyme forming a chain along the blastocoel wall towards the animal pole on the right side of the embryo .
subpopulation of skeletogenic mesenchyme forming a chain along the blastocoel wall towards the animal pole on the left side of the embryo .
a cell that contains red coloring matter
the mesenchyme cells that produce new skeletal elements   ( i .e . ,  the posterodorsal rods ,  dorsal arch ,  and preoral rods )  in the larva after feeding begins
the left lateral field is the lateral field located on the left side of the larva
opening located in the left lateral field
the lateral field is located in the aboral ectoderm of the larva .
the right lateral field is the lateral field located on the right side of the larva
the mesenchyme cells that produce biomineralized elements  ( e .g . ,  spines ,  test plates ,  and teeth )  in the juvenile and adult .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
relation between occurrents ,  shares a start boundary with .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
