unicellular haploid myxamoebae that feeds on bacteria by phagocytosis and divides by binary fission .
area covered by a group of chemotactic cells converging toward the same aggregation center .
first adherent mass of cells observed during development ,  relatively flat with indistinct borders .
hemispherical structure composed of post - aggregative cells that are undergoing differentiation .
hemispherical structure composed of post - aggregative cells that are undergoing differentiation and that have formed a tip .
cylindrical structure that is formed by elongation of the mound under the control of the tip .
when the conditions are not optimal for the completion of development ,  the standing slug bends from a vertical position to a horizontal position ,  producing a migratory that slug has the ability to migrate towards more favorable environmental conditions .
structure formed after the arrest of slug migration formed when cells of the posterior region of the slug move under the tip .
structure in which stalk tube formation has progressed down the prespore zone .
structure in which stalk tube formation has progressed down to the basal disc .
dicty asexual organism which is terminally differentiated and consists of a long stalk on top of which sits the sorus that contains spores .
macroscopic appearance of groups of chemotactic cells orienting themselves in a head to tail fashion as they are migrating in the direction of the chemotactic stimulus to form aggregates .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins ,  formed during late aggregation and that holds the cell mass together in the aggregate .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins that holds the cell mass together in the mound .
elongated protusion of the tipped mound located on top of the cell mass that contains psta cells flanked by psto cells  ( expressing ecma from the proximal and the distal part of its promoter ,  respectively )  .
region of the tipped mound mostly composed of prespore cells .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins that holds the cell mass together in the tipped mound .
elongated protrusion of the standing slug located on top of the cell mass that contains psta cells flanked by psto cells  ( expressing ecma from the proximal and the distal part of its promoter ,  respectively )  .
part of the prestalk region of the standing slug that acts as an organizer ,  that is ,  a signalling center that directs the morphological characteristics of the entire organism .
most apical region of the prestalk zone of the standing slug characterized by high expression of the ecma gene directed by the proximal part of its promoter  ( ecma promoter )  .
area of the prestalk zone of the standing slug located posterior to the prestalk a region and characterized by low expression of the ecma gene directed by the distal part of its promoter  ( ecmo promoter )  .
cone - shaped area of the prestalk zone of the standing slug that occupies a core among the psta region .
region of the standing slug mostly composed of prespore cells .
region of the standing slug in contact with the substratum and composed of prestalk b cells .
outer - most cell layer surrounding the standing slug .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins that holds the cell mass together in the standing slug .
the prestalk region of the migratory slug is located at the anterior of the organism .
part of the prestalk region of the migratory slug that acts as an organizer ,  that is ,  a signalling center that directs the morphological characteristics of the entire organism .
anterior - most region of the prestalk zone of the migratory slug and characterized by high expression of the ecma gene directed by the proximal part of its promoter  ( ecma promoter )  .
area of the prestalk zone of the migratory slug located posterior to the prestalk a region and characterized by low expression of the ecma gene directed by the distal part of its promoter  ( ecmo promoter )  .
cone - shaped area of the prestalk zone of the migratory slug that occupies a core among the psta region .
region of the migratory slug composed mostly of prespore cells .
region located at the very posterior of the migratory slug that contains pstb cells  ( rearguard cells )  .
outer - most cell layer surrounding the migratory slug .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins that holds the cell mass together in the migratory slug .
the prestalk region of the early culminant is located at the most apical part of the organism .
anterior - most region of the prestalk zone of the early culminant characterized by high expression of the ecma gene directed by the proximal part of its promoter  ( ecma promoter )  .
area of the prestalk zone of the early culminant located posterior to the psta region and characterized by low expression of the ecma gene directed by the distal part of its promoter  ( ecmo promoter )  .
cone - shaped area of the prestalk zone of the early culminant that occupies a core among the psta region .
region of the early culminant mostly composed of prespore cells .
region of the prespore zone of the early culminant that borders the prestalk region .
open ,  cylindrical tube of the early culminant composed of cellulose and glycoprotein and surrounded by a ring of actin in which stalk cells accumulate .
region of the prespore zone of the early culminant that borders the base .
region of the early culminant located at the closest to the substratum composed of pstb cells that originated from rearguard cells .
layer surrounding the mexican hat and composed of an electron - dense cell type .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins that holds the cell mass together in the early culminant .
the prestalk region of the mid culminant is located at the most apical part of the organism .
anterior - most region of the prestalk zone of the mid culminant characterized by high expression of the ecma gene directed by the proximal part of its promoter  ( ecma promoter )  .
area of the prestalk zone of the mid culminant located posterior to the prestalk a region and characterized by low expression of the ecma gene directed by the distal part of its promoter  ( ecmo promoter )  .
cone - shaped area of the prestalk zone of the mid culminant that occupies a core among the psta region .
tubular structure of the mid culminant that consists of cellulose - covered cells stacked on top of each other and surrounded by an acellular stalk tube composed of cellulose and glycoprotein .
open ,  cylindrical tube of the mid culminant composed of cellulose and glycoprotein and surrounded by a ring of actin in which stalk cells accumulate .
region of the mid culminant mostly composed of prespore cells .
region of the prespore zone of the mid culminant that borders the prestalk region .
region of the prespore zone of the mid culminant that borders the base .
region located of the mid culminant located closest to the substratum and composed of pst cells  ( rearguard cells )  .
layer surrounding the mid culminant and composed of an electron - dense cell type .
tubular structure of the late culminant that consists of cellulose - covered cells stacked on top of each other and surrounded by an acellular stalk tube composed of cellulose and glycoprotein .
open ,  cylindrical tube of the late culminant composed of cellulose and glycoprotein and surrounded by a ring of actin in which stalk cells accumulate .
ovoid structure of the late culminant supported by the stalk and that contains the spores .
most apical structure of the late culminant .
region of the late culminant located above the spore mass and composed of anterior - like cells .
region of the sorus of the late culminant located at the base of the sorus and composed of anterior - like cells .
conical - shaped structure of the late culminant that anchors the stalk to the substratum .
central portion of the basal disc of the late culminant .
ring of cells at the periphery of the basal disc of the late culminant .
tubular structure of the fruiting body that consists of cellulose - covered cells stacked on top of each other and surrounded by an acellular stalk tube composed of cellulose and glycoprotein .
open ,  cylindrical tube of the fruiting body composed of cellulose and glycoprotein and surrounded by a ring of actin in which stalk cells accumulate .
structure of the fruiting body supported by the stalk and that contains the spores .
region of the fruiting body located above the spore mass and composed of anterior - like cells .
region of the fruiting body located at the base of the sorus and composed of anterior - like cells .
conical - shaped structure of the fruiting body that anchors the stalk to the substratum ,  around 150 to 400 microns in diameter .
central portion of the basal disc of the fruiting body composed of stalk cells .
ring of cells at the periphery of the basal disc of the fruiting body composed of pstb cells  ( rearguard cells )  and other anterior - like cells .
acellular material from the surface sheath left behind the migratory slug as it moves .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins .
part of the prestalk region of the tipped mound that acts as an organizer ,  that is ,  a signalling center that directs the morphological characteristics of the entire organism .
cell that is an individual member of the species dictyostelium discoideum .
unicellular diploid organism resulting from the fusion of two cells of opposite mating types .
region mostly composed of prespore cells .
the prestalk region is located at the most apical part of the organism .
anterior - most region of the prestalk zone characterized by high expression of the ecma gene directed by the proximal part of its promoter  ( ecma promoter )  .
conical - shaped structure that anchors the stalk to the substratum .
layer surrounding the pseudoplasmodium and composed of an electron - dense cell type .
cone - shaped area of the prestalk zone that occupies a core among the psta region .
area of the prestalk zone located posterior to the psta region and characterized by low expression of the ecma gene directed by the distal part of its promoter  ( ecmo promoter )  .
tubular structure that consists of cellulose - covered cells stacked on top of each other and surrounded by an acellular stalk tube composed of cellulose and glycoprotein .
ovoid structure supported by the stalk and that contains the spores .
electron - dense cell connected to neighboring peripheral layer cells thus forming a coherent tissue around the multicellular organism .
acellular material composed of polysaccharides and proteins ,  formed during late aggregation and that holds the cell mass together throuhout development .
open ,  cylindrical tube that appears during culmination .
central portion of the basal disc .
ring of cells at the periphery of the basal disc composed of pstb cells  ( rearguard cells )  and other anterior - like cells .
anterior - most region of the prestalk zone of the tipped mound characterized by high expression of the ecma gene directed by the proximal part of its promoter  ( ecma promoter )  .
cone - shaped area of the prestalk zone of the tipped mound that occupies a core among the psta region .
area of the prestalk zone of the tipped mound located posterior to the psta region and characterized by low expression of the ecma gene directed by the distal part of its promoter  ( ecmo promoter )  .
part of the prestalk region that acts as an organizer ,  that is ,  a signalling center that directs the morphological characteristics of the entire organism .
part of the prestalk region of the early culminant that acts as an organizer ,  that is ,  a signalling center that directs the morphological characteristics of the entire organism .
region located at the base of the sorus and composed of anterior - like cells .
most apical structure of the organism .
region located above the spore mass and composed of anterior - like cells .
region located at the very posterior of the organism that contains pstb cells  ( rearguard cells )  .
apical region of the mound where camp signals originate that trigger positive chemotaxis from psta and psto cells .
region of the early pseudoplasmodium located at the closest to the substratum composed of pstb cells .
apical region of the early plasmodium where camp signals originate that trigger positive chemotaxis from psta and psto cells .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
starved cell that secretes and responds to chemoattractants  ( camp )  .
differentiating cell composing the aggregate that has acquired adhesive properties .
cell that has properties of anterior cells  ( for e .g . ,  accumulate vital dyes in autophagic vesicles )  but that is are scattered throughout the rear of the slug .
cell that is undergoing differentiation to become a spore .
cell that is undergoing differentiation to become a stalk cell and characterized by the ability to update vital dyes .
cell that is undergoing differentiation to become a stalk cell .
cell that is undergoing differentiation to become a stalk cell .
cell expressing ecmb but not ecma .
cell that is undergoing differentiation to become a stalk cell .
anterior - like cell expressing both ecma and ecmb .
anterior - like cell that expresses the ecmo promoter and that can move to the position normally occupied by the psto cells .
cell of polyhedric shape filling the stalk tube .
dormant cell protected by a tri - layer spore coat .
cell type formed in the presence of toxins .
cell that is undergoing differentiation to become a stalk cell .
cell present in multicellular organism that has a high ability to engulf bacteria and toxin and is presumed to have a detoxification and immune - like role .
anterior - like cell that expresses the rtaa promoter but not ecma ,  ecmb or the ecmo promoter .
cell that is undergoing differentiation to become a stalk cell .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the dictyostelium discoideum genome .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of the dictyostelium discoideum species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole dictyostelium organism .
a tri - layer protective wall around each spore ,  consisting of  secreted proteins ,  a polysaccharide ,  and cellulose produced on the cell surface .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole dictyostelium organism .
