biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
material anatomical entity that has inherent 3d shape and is generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  whivsao forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions ,  that is demarcated by anatomical lines or points on the external or internal surfaces of anatomical structures .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
anatomical structure that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
anatomical structure that is a direct part of the cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
multi - tissue structure that is not part of a compound organ .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
multi - cellular organism that does not produce gametes .
anatomical structure which is a primary subdivision of whole organism .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
anatomical structure that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
hermaphroditic organism that produces gametes first of one sex ,  and then later of the other sex .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
multi - cellular organism that has male and female sexes .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces \ ngametes first of the male sex ,  and then later of the \ nfemale sex .
sequential hermaphroditic organism that produces \ ngametes first of the female sex ,  and then later of the \ nmale sex .
anatomical structure consisting of at least two non - overlapping organs ,  multi - tissue aggregates or portion of tissues or cells of different types that does not constitute an organism ,  organ ,  multi - tissue aggregate ,  or portion of tissue .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
anatomical space that is part of a cell .
portion of organism substance located within a cell .
cell that is an individual member of a species .
acellular anatomical structure that consists of a thin sheet of fibrous proteins that underlie and support the cells of an epithelium .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium that consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium that consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
compound organ that does not contain macroscopic anatomical spaces .
cell which has as its part a cytoskeleton that allows for tight cell to cell contact and which has apical - basal cell polarity .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a fiber - shaped subdivision of a neuron projection along its long axis .
a subdivision of a neuron projection along its long axis that is sufficiently short that it is not fiber - shaped .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a precursor cell with a limited number of potential fates .
skeletogenic cell that is typically non - terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag rich matrix ;  is not buried in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  located adjacent to cartilage tissue  ( including within the perichondrium )  ,  and develops from prechondroblast  ( and thus prechondrogenic )  cell .
skeletogenic cell that produces enamel ,  overlies the odontogenic papilla ,  and arises from the differentiation of a preameloblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that secretes dentine matrix ,  is derived from the odontogenic papilla ,  and develops from a preodontoblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that produces cementum  ( = bone of attachment )  ,  is part of the odontogenic papilla ,  and develops from a precementoblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that secretes osteoid ,  is capable of producing mineralized  ( hydroxyapatite )  matrix ,  is located adjacent to or within osteoid tissue ,  and arises from the transformation of a preosteoblast cell .
a connective tissue cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three - dimensional masses .
skeletogenic cell that secretes and is embedded in lacunae within mineralized bone matrix and that arises from the transformation of non - terminally differentiated osteoblasts .
skeletogenic cell that is terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag - rich matrix ,  is embedded in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  and develops from a chondroblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that secretes dentine matrix ,  is derived from odontogenic papilla .
skeletogenic cell that produces cementum ,  is part of the odontogenic papilla ,  and is a transformation of a cementoblast cell .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
cell derived from mesoderm .
a cell derived from the specialized ectoderm flanking each side of the embryonic neural plate ,  which after the closure of the neural tube ,  forms masses of cells that migrate out from the dorsal aspect of the neural tube to spread throughout the body .
chondrocyte that is located on a joint surface ;  part of articular cartilage .
chondrocyte that is terminally differentiated ,  produces type x collagen ,  is large in size ,  and often associated with the replacement of cartilage by bone  ( endochondral ossification )  .
a connective tissue cell found in bone .
osteoblast that is terminally differentiated ,  located adjacent to acellular or cellular bone tissue within periosteum ,  and is capable of mineralizing the matrix .
osteoblast that is non - terminally differentiated and located in cellular bone tissue or under the periosteum in acellular bone .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
a cell of the embryo .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into an ameloblast .
cell that has the potential to form a skeletal cell type  ( e .g . ,  cells in periosteum ,  cells in marrow )  and produce extracellular matrix  ( often mineralized )  and skeletal tissue  ( often mineralized )  .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into a cementoblast .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to form an odontoblast ,  deposits predentine ,  and arises from a neural crest cell .
cell that is part of the neural crest region of the neuroepithelium ,  prior to migration .
cell of the notochord ,  often vacuolated or resembles a chondrocyte .
mesodermal cell that is axially located and gives rise to the cells of the notochord .
notochordal cell that is part of the outer epithelium of the notochord and surrounds the vacuolated notochord cells .
notochordal cell that is inner portion of the notochord and becomes vacuolated as development proceeds .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into a chondroblast ;  and arises from neural crest ,  meseosdermal and notochordal and connective tissue cells .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to transform into an osteoblast ,  and develops from neural crest or mesodermal cells .
odontoblast that non - terminally differentiated ,  located in the odontogenic papilla and dentine tissue ,  and transforms from a odontoblast cell .
odontoblast that is terminally differentiated and derived from an odontogenic papilla and associated with dentine .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an osteoblast ,  a mesodermal or neural crest cell that gives rise to bone .
direct ossification that occurs within mesenchyme with the formation of an osteogenic condensation not associated with a perichondrium .
replacement ossification wherein bone tissue replaces cartilage .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the deposition of calcium phosphate in bone tissue .
formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds ,  and also contain a small amounts of organic matrices that are believed to play important roles in their formation .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
the deposition of calcium phosphate in bone tissue ,  involved in the progression of the skeleton from its formation to its mature state .
ossification that does not require the replacement of pre - existing tissues ,  most often a cartilaginous model .
intramembranous ossification on the surface of a cartilage element as the perichondrium becomes a periosteum ,  without replacement of cartilage .
direct ossification in which transformation of the pre - existing tissue occurs without dedifferentiation of cells or reinitiation of cell division ;  direct transformation of a non - bone tissue into a bone tissue .
ossification that requires the replacement of a pre - existing tissue prior to bone tissue formation .
ossification wherein bone tissue forms within ligamentous tissue .
ossification wherein bone tissue forms within tendonous tissue .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone ,  involved in the progression of the skeleton from its formation to its mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of bone over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which bones are generated and organized .
the process in which bones are generated and organized as a result of the conversion of initial cartilaginous anlage into bone .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for bone to attain its fully functional state .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's being hardened by the deposition of calcium into bone .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's cartilage quantities .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
organism subdivision which is the collection of anatomical structures on the body surface .
the formation of bone or of a bony substanc ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
chondrogenic element that is composed of cartilage that is not replaced .
dermal bone that forms the postero - dorsal part of the opercular series .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
endochondral bone that is median and is the anterior - most bone of the ventral hyoid arch .
a cell derived from the specialized ectoderm flanking each side of the embryonic neural plate ,  which after the closure of the neural tube ,  forms masses of cells that migrate out from the dorsal aspect of the neural tube to spread throughout the body .
pharyngeal arch cartilage that is median and is the anterior - most cartilage of the ventral hyoid arch .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
epithelial cell that is large ,  vacuolated ,  and part of the notochord .
extracellular matrix that is mineralized .
a layer consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that forms a sheet underlying or overlying cells such as endothelial and epithelial cells .
combination of protein fibers ,  ground substance and tissue fluid ;  typically has embedded cells .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
small membrane bone homologous with a cartilage bone in more basal fishes  ( patterson ,  1977 )  .
cell condensation that is a well - defined population of densely organized mesenchymal cells that aggregates adjacent to an epithelium .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
odontogenic papilla that is located in the integument .
surface structure that is the outer protective covering of the body .
odontogenic papilla located along the jaws or pharyngeal skeleton .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
avascular multi - tissue structure composed of large vacuolated epithelial cells  ( chordablasts )  and perichordal fibrous tissue .
anatomical system that consists of the muscles of the body .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
fibrous connective tissue that surrounds cartilage .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
skeletogenic cell that is derived from the notochordal mesoderm and produces notochordal tissue  ( and cartilage tissue in some taxa )  .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements that are part of the skeleton .
bone tissue that is an unmineralized bone matrix deposited by osteoblasts prior to the mineralization of bone tissue .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
multi - layer ganoid scale composed of ganoine and cellular bone .
thick ,  rhomboid - shaped integumentary skeletal element composed of multiple tissues including ganoine and bone .
connective tissue that is matrix - poor with large number of vacuolated cells .
fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the notochord ;  includes a layer of elastin .
multi - tissue structure composed of ganoine ,  dentine ,  elasmodine and cellular bone .
skeletal subdivision of the central body axis including the cranium ,  vertebrae ,  notochord ,  ribs ,  and sternum .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
proteinaceous extracellular matrix that is avascular and consists primarily of glycosaminoglycans .
odontoid tissue that is deposited by cementoblasts onto dentine tissue and functions to attach teeth ,  odontodes and other odontogenic derivatives to bone tissue and the integument .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
skeletal tissue that consists of an avascular ,  noncollagenous ,  hypermineralized matrix that is deposited by ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
odontogenic tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by preameloblast and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
collagen - rich odontogenic tissue characteristic of teeth and tooth - like skeletal elements  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  ;  mature dentine is mineralized and develops from predentine tissue ;  often  ( but not always )  tubular and acellular .
multi - tissue integumentary element composed dentine ,  elasmodine ,  and hypermineralized tissue .
odontogenic tissue that is collagen - rich and characteristic of vertebrate teeth and tooth - like structures  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  deposited by preodontoblasts and odontoblasts that are typically excluded from the matrix .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone .
multi - tissue structure composed of ganoine ,  dentine and bone ;  not known in extant taxa .
skeletal subdivision consisting of all the skeletal elements in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes .
skeletal tissue that is mineralized ,  has large chondrocyte - like cells ,  sparse extracellular matrix ,  and minimal perichondrium ;  develops from non - mineralized chondroid tissue .
multi - tissue structure composed of enameloid ,  dentine surrounding a pulp cavity ,  and bone of attachment anchoring the element into the dermis .
fold or elevation of the epidermis rich in keratin proteins ;  possibly calcified but does not contain skeletal elements .
multi - tissue integumentary element composed of enamel or enameloid ,  dentine and lamellar bone ,  and characterized by pore - canal system .
cranial skeleton derived from neural crest cells .
cartilage tissue that is part of the exoskeleton ,  deposited adjacent to bone after bone formation .
cartilage tissue that is mineralized .
cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
skeletal subdivision that is part of the extra - oral dermal skeletal system that develops and remains invested within the integument ,  primarily the dermis .
cartilage tissue that is flexible and contains abundant elastic fibers .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
skeletal subdivision of the central body axis including vertebrae ,  notochord ,  ribs ,  and sternum .
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
odontoid tissue that typically contains tubules and is acellular .
surface structure involved in locomotion .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent bones or cartilages ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue .
cartilage tissue intermediate between hyaline cartilage and dense connective tissue ;  contains of abundant collagen fibers ;  chondrocytes often arranged in columns .
odontogenic tissue that is hypermineralized acellular ,  noncollagenous ,  covered by an epidermis and often deposited in multiple layers .
hypermineralized tissue lacking collagen  ( except sharpey's fibres )  ,  developing in close proximity to the basal cells of the overlying epithelium .
dentine tissue that lacks dentine tubules and that is penetrated by blood capillaries .
odontogenic tissue that consists of multiple layers of collagen fibers organized in orthogonal or twisted arrangements .
hyaline cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
hyaline cartilage tissue that is mineralized .
chondrocyte that is linearly arranged with other columnar chondrocytes .
fin that is one of a pair located ventrally on the organism .
skeletal tissue that is hypermineralized and aprismatic and deposited by a combination of ameloblasts and odontoblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
odontoid tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by odontoblasts and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
bone tissue mineralized with hydroxyapatite .
mineralized bone tissue that always includes non - terminally differentiated osteoblasts and osteocytes .
avascular gag - rich matrix that is not mineralized .
avascular gag - rich matrix that is mineralized .
mineralized bone tissue that has terminally differentiated osteoblasts but lacks osteocytes .
skeletal tissue that is avascular tubular mineralized matrix ,  primarily made of dentine that is deposited by odontoblasts that are excluded from the matrix ;  develops from pre - dentine tissue .
dermal element that arises via intramembranous ossification and are developmentally distinct from true ribs that articulate with the vertebral column .
organ entity that is typically involved in mechanical support and may have different skeletal tissue compositions at different stages .
paired fin located in the abdominal position of the body .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm .
ossicle that is part of the appendicular skeleton .
skeletal element that is often isolated ,  small ,  and variable in composition .
ossicle that is part of the axial skeleton .
sesamoid that develops within a tendon ,  distal to an articulation or joint .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
ossicle that develops within bands of dense ,  regular connective tissue  ( e .g . ,  tendons and ligaments )  .
replacement element that forms as a replacement of a ligament .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
chondrogenic element that is composed of cartilage during development and has the potential to become replaced by another tissue .
paired fin that is located in the thoracic region of the body .
paired fin skeleton that consists of the supporting endochondral proximal and distal radials and the dermal fins rays or lepidotrichia .
paired fin skeleton located in the abdominal position that consists of supporting endochondral radials and dermal fin rays or lepidotrichia .
girdle skeleton consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb / fin skeleton and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb / fin and caudal musculature .
girdle skeleton consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the forelimb / fin skeleton and offering anchoring areas for forelimb / fin and caudal musculature .
sesamoid that develops within a ligament ,  distal to an articulation or joint .
dermal bone of pectoral girdle that is dorsal to and articulates with the cleithrum .
dermal bone of pectoral girdle that is median and ventral in position .
fin that is an unpaired fin located in the sagittal plane of the organism .
median fin that is located posterior to the anus .
the caudal fin is the most posterior median fin .
median fin located on the dorsal surface of the organism .
median fin skeleton that is located posterior to the anus .
median fin skeleton supporting the caudal fin .
median fin skeleton located on the dorsal surface of the organism .
skeletal system that consists of the paired fins  ( pectoral or pelvic fins )  .
postcranial axial skeleton that is unpaired and located on the sagittal plane of the organism .
skeletal subdivision of dermal bones that may include the anterolateral plate  ( al )  ,  the spinal process  ( sp )  ,  and anteroventral plate  ( av )  and other dermal bones that are part of the pectoral girdle .
dermal bone that is rod - like ,  formed and usually contained in a fin membrane ,  and jointed to or adjacent to distal radials .
lepidotrichium that is part of the pelvic fin skeleton .
lepidotrichium that is part of the caudal fin skeleton .
lepidotrichium that is part of the pectoral fin skeleton .
lepidotrichium that is part of the anal fin skeleton .
lepidotrichium that is part of the dorsal fin skeleton .
anatomical structure that is part of the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells .
anatomical structure that is a natural outgrowth ,  projection ,  or appendage .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
paired fin that is a bilaterally paired anterior outgrowth located high on the side of the animal ,  not far behind the orbit ,  with the posterior extremity corresponding with the expected posterior end of the branchial region .
skeletal element that surrounds the notochord .
skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the vertebra in the body .
endochondral longbone connecting the pelvic girdle with posterior zeugopodium .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendage and half of the pectoral girdle .
anatomical group that consists of the soft and skeletal tissues of the appendicular region of the body and the appendage proper .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendage and the pelvic girdle .
skeletal subdivision that is part of the limb .
skeletal subdivision that is part of the paired limb / fin .
skeletal subdivision that is part of the appendage girdle region .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
subdivision of lower limb or fin which links the limb / fin to the body [ fma , modified ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton .
skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
bone element that is located on the surface of a cartilage element .
proximal element of the limb skeleton consisting of the femur and humerus in the forelimb stylopodium and hindlimb stylopodium respectively .
section of the forelimb skeleton located between the stylopodium and the autopodium .
distal section of the limb skeleton ,  consisting of the anterior autopodium or posterior autopodium .
limb skeleton subdivision consisting of endochondral bones increasing the freedom of movement of the autopodia ,  and located between zeugopodia and autopodia .
endochondral bone complex located between the mesopodium and the acropodium and consisting of the metacarpals or metatarsals .
c integral_part_of c' if and only if: c part_of c' and c' has_part c
