an entity  that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity  that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant  that is a bearer of quality  and realizable entity  entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
a continuant  that is either dependent on one or other independent continuant  bearers or inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a processual entity  that is a maximally connected spatiotemporal whole and has bona fide beginnings and endings corresponding to real discontinuities .
a realizable entity  that essentially causes a specific process or transformation in the object  in which it inheres ,  under specific circumstances and in conjunction with the laws of nature .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a specifically dependent continuant  that is exhibited if it inheres in an entity or entities at all  ( a categorical property )  .
a continuant  that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which brings about some result or end that is not essential to a continuant  in virtue of the kind of thing that it is but that can be served or participated in by that kind of continuant  in some kinds of natural ,  social or institutional contexts .
an independent continuant  consisting of a characteristic spatial shape in relation to some arrangement of other continuant  entities and of the medium which is enclosed in whole or in part by this characteristic spatial shape .
a continuant  that is dependent on one or other independent continuant  bearers .
a realizable entity  the manifestation of which is an essentially end - directed activity of a continuant  entity in virtue of that continuant  entity being a specific kind of entity in the kind or kinds of contexts that it is made for .
a processual entity  that is the fiat or bona fide instantaneous temporal process boundary .
an independent continuant  that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
anatomical structure ,  that consists of similar cells and intercellular matrix ,  aggregated according to genetically determined spatial relationships .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
anatomical structure that is part of a multicellular organism and is at the gross anatomical level ,  e .g .
an inorganic hydroxy compound that has formula h2o .
an organic heterobicyclic compound that consists of 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazole having a valeric acid substituent attached to the tetrahydrothiophene ring .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing deoxyribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  dna contain the genetic information of organisms .
a sulfur oxoanion that has formula ho3s .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a macromolecule made up of nucleotide units and hydrolysable into certain pyrimidine or purine bases  ( usually adenine ,  cytosine ,  guanine ,  thymine ,  uracil )  ,  d - ribose or 2 - deoxy - d - ribose and phosphoric acid .
high molecular weight ,  linear polymers ,  composed of nucleotides containing ribose and linked by phosphodiester bonds ;  rna is central to the synthesis of proteins .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the radioactive isotope of phosphorus with relative atomic mass 31 .973907 and half - life of 14 .26 days .
the radioactive isotope of phosphorus with relative atomic mass 32 .971725 ,  half - life of 25 .34 days and nuclear spin  ( 1 )  / 2 .
a hydroxy steroid that consists of 5beta - cardanolide having a double bond at the 20 ( 22 )  - position as well as hydroxy groups at the 3beta -  ,  12beta -  and 14beta - positions .
a pyrimidine 2' - deoxyribonucleoside compound having 5 - bromouracil as the nucleobase .
an organosulfonic acid that has formula c34h33n3o11s2 .
an organic heteropentacyclic compound that has formula c44h46cl3n4nao14s3 .
a fluorescent dye of absorption wavelength 555 nm and emission wavelength 565 nm ,  derived from a 3 , 6 - diaminoxanthene - 4 , 5 - disulfate .
the diethyl ester of dicarbonic acid .
a combined intercalating and chelating reagent .
a cultured cell that is part of a cell line  -  a stable and homogeneous population of cells with a common biological origin and propagation history in culture
a cell line cell that is capable of replicating a limited number of times in culture before undergoing senescence .
a cell line cell that is expected to be capable of an unlimited number of divisions ,  and is thus able to support indefinite propagation in vitro as part of an immortal cell line .
a cultured cell population that represents a genetically stable and homogenous population of cultured cells that shares a common propagation history  ( i .e .
a cell line that is expected to be capable of indefinite propagation in an vitro culture .
a cell line is able to support only a limited number of passages in vitro .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cultured cell that is freshly isolated from a organismal source ,  or derives in culture from such a cell prior to the culture being passaged .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a cell that is found in almost all tissues containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
the main structural component of the liver .
a red blood cell .in mammals ,  mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive and capable of b cell mediated immunity .
a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
a cell in vitro that has undergone physical changes as a consequence of a deliberate and specific experimental procedure .
a mature alpha - beta t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd4 coreceptor .
a t cell expressing an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd8 coreceptor .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has an irregularly shaped ,  pale - staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes ,  and with cytoplasm that contains coarse ,  bluish - black granules of variable size .
a terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  antibody secreting cell of the b cell lineage with the phenotype cd138 - positive ,  surface immunonoglobulin - negative ,  and mhc class ii - negative .
a t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor complex .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that is capable of killing target cells in an antigen specific manner with the phenotype perforin - positive and granzyme b - positive .
a mature alpha - beta t cell of a distinct lineage that bears natural killer markers and a t cell receptor specific for a limited set of ligands .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
a reference to a place on the earth ,  by its name or by its geographical location .
an immune response based on directed amplification of specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for enhanced response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
elemental activities ,  such as catalysis or binding ,  describing the actions of a gene product at the molecular level .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the cellular metabolic process in which a cell duplicates one or more molecules of dna .
dynamic structural changes to eukaryotic chromatin occurring throughout the cell division cycle .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
an immunoglobulin complex that is present in the plasma membrane of b cells and that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a specific domain of a protein .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
catalysis of the reaction: deoxynucleoside triphosphate  +  dna ( n )  = diphosphate  +  dna ( n + 1 )  ;  the synthesis of dna from deoxyribonucleotide triphosphates in the presence of a nucleic acid template and primer .
any heritable epigenetic process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein function by self - perpetuating conformational conversions of normal proteins in healthy cells .
a protein complex that contains a disulfide - linked heterodimer of t cell receptor  ( tcr )  chains ,  which are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily ,  and mediates antigen recognition ,  ultimately resulting in t cell activation .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex that possesses dna polymerase activity and is involved in template directed synthesis of dna .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc alpha chain and ,  in most cases ,  either an mhc class ii beta chain or an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide ,  lipid ,  or polysaccharide antigen .
any macromolecular complex composed of two or more polypeptide subunits ,  which may or may not be identical .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with dna of a specific nucleotide composition ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent transfer of a methyl group to either n - 6 of adenine or c - 5 or n - 4 of cytosine .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
`increased resistance`  ( pato:0001650 )  towards `insulin`  ( pro:000009054 )  ,  that is ,  diminished effectiveness of insulin in reducing blood glucose levels .
a data item label that denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take
an information content entity that is part of some data item and is used to partially define the denotation of that data item .
software is a plan specification composed of a series of instructions that can be  interpreted by or directly executed by a processing unit .
a report that is published in a journal
a quality of an information bearer that imparts the information content
a model number is an information content entity specifically borne by catalogs ,  design specifications ,  advertising materials ,  inventory systems and similar  that is about manufactured objects of the same class .
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method that reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information content entity that is a mark or character used as a conventional representation of another entity .
an information content entity is an entity that is generically dependent on some material entity and stands in relation of aboutness to some entity
a scalar measurement datum is a measurement datum that is composed of two parts ,  numerals and a unit label .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a dot plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where each data point is represented by a single dot placed on coordinates corresponding to data point values in particular dimensions .
a diagram that presents one or more tuples of information by mapping those tuples in to a two dimensional space in a non arbitrary way .
a plan specification which describes inputs ,  output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
a density plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the tint of a particular pixel corresponds to some kind of function corresponding the the amount of data points relativelly with their distance from the the pixel .
an information content entity assembled by an author for the purpose of providing information for an audience ,  and that is meant to provide an accurate account of something that happened .
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives ,  in part by taking the actions specified .
a data item that is a recording of the output of an assay .
a version number is an information content entity which is a sequence of characters borne by part of each of a class of manufactured products or its packaging and indicates its order within a set of other products having the same name .
a serial number is an information content entity which is a unique sequence of characters borne by part of manufactured product or its packaging that is assigned to each individual in some class of products ,  and so can serve as a way to identify an individual product within the class .
a lot number is an information content entity which is an identical sequence of character borne by part of manufactured product or its packaging for each instances of a product class in a discrete batch of an item .
a settings datum is a datum that denotes some configuration of an instrument .
a textual entity that expresses the results of reasoning about a problem ,  for instance as typically found towards the end of scientific papers .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
a histogram is a report graph which is a statistical description of a distribution in terms of occurrence frequencies of different event classes .
a heatmap is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where the values taken by a variable ( s )  are shown as colors in a two - dimensional map .
a dendrogram is a report graph which is a tree diagram frequently used to illustrate the arrangement of the clusters produced by a clustering algorithm .
a scatterplot is a graph which uses cartesian coordinates to display values for two variables for a set of data .
a textual entity is a part of a manifestation  ( frbr sense )  ,  a generically dependent continuant whose concretizations are patterns of glyphs intended to be interpreted as words ,  formulas ,  etc .
a textual entity that contains a two - dimensional arrangement of texts repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  such that the spatial relationships among the constituent texts expresses propositions
an information content entity consisting of a two dimensional arrangement of information content entities such that the arrangement itself is about something .
a figure that expresses one or more propositions
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a document that has been accepted by a publisher
a publication that is about an investigation
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of length quality
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measurement of mass quality
a textual entity that expresses an assertion that is intended to be tested .
a scalar measurement datum that is the result of measuring a temporal interval
a textual entity that is used as directive to deliver something to a person ,  or organization
a planned process in which input information is used to create or add to a report
a line graph is a type of graph created by connecting a series of data points together with a line .
a symbol that is sufficient to look up information about the corresponding entity from its crid  ( centrally registered identifier )  registry .
a data set that consists of crids  ( centrally registered identifier )  and additional information about their corresponding entities ,  that were recorded in the dataset through an assigning a centrally registered identifier process .
a data set that is an aggregate of data recording some measurement at a number of time points .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a regulatory role involved with making and / or enforcing relevant legislation and governmental orders
biological_feature_identification_objective is an objective role carried out by the proposition defining the aim of a study designed to examine or characterize a particular biological feature .
a role which inheres in material entities and is realized in the processes of making ,  enforcing or being defined by legislation or orders issued by a governmental body .
a role realized through the process of supplying materials such as animal subjects ,  reagents or other materials used in an investigation .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class prediction data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned class labels .
a role inhering in a material entity that is realized when  characteristics or responses elicited by the substance are used for comparison or reference .
a dye role that is realized when the stain is used to colour cells and or cellular components for the purposes of visualization
supernatant role is a role which inheres in a material entity and is realized by a material separation process using gravitational force in which the material bearing the supernatant role is the liquid component of the output material .
chromatography column in chemistry is a tube and contents  ( typically glass )  used to purify individual chemical compounds from mixtures of compounds .
a role borne by a molecular entity and is realized in a process of absorption by an organism  alters ,  or effects   ( or is assumed to effect )  a function ( s )  which inhere in an organism
not actively doing anything to a material for a duration of time .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a device that facilitates the separation of mixtures .
a mass spectrometer is an instrument which is used to measure the mass to charge ratio of ions .
a microarray platform is a platform that contains the instruments ,  software and reagents needed to perform a microarray protocol .
software_optimization is a software_testing_objective role describing a study designed to identify the best software or parameters of the software .
a reference role in which the characteristics or responses elicited by the substance playing the reference substance role are used to establish a "100%" response
a planned process that consists of parts: planning ,  study design execution ,  documentation and which produce conclusion ( s )  .
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in an assay in which data is generated about the bearer of the evaluant role
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a data item which is used to indicate the degree of uncertainty about a measurement .
a sample_preparation_for_assay is a protocol_application including material_enrollments and biomaterial_transformations .
diagnosis is an assessment of a disease or injury ,  its likely prognosis and treatment .
a processed material that provides the needed nourishment for microorganisms or cells grown in vitro .
a role inhering in a biological or chemical entity that is intended to be applied in a scientific technique to participate  ( or have molecular components that participate )  in a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some entity distinct from the bearer ,  or the generation of some specified material output distinct from the bearer .
a role which inheres in a molecular entity and is realized by the process of recording or registering a stimulus .
a role which inheres in a person and is realized by the process of being under the care of a physician or health care provider
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
protocol_testing_objective is a methodology_testing_objective role describing a study designed to examine the effects of using different protocols .
a role that is realized through the execution of a study design in which the bearer of the role participates and in which data about that bearer is collected .
a measurement datum that is the outcome of the quantification of an assay for the activity of a gene ,  or the number of rna transcripts .
a study personnel role played by a party who is accountable for the execution of a study component and can make decisions about the conduct of the study
a responsible party role played by a person responsible for the overall conduct of a study
a protocol application to replace an organ or tissue of an organism
a biological vector role is a material to be added role that is realized by the process of transmitting material to the organism that is the target of the transmission .
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
sequence_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize molecular features exhibited at the level of a macromolecular sequence ,  e .g .
an intervention design is a study design in which a controlled process applied to the subjects  ( the intervention )  serves as the independent variable manipulated by the experimentalist .
a personnel role played by a party who executes a component of the study plan ;  this can occur before ,  during ,  after or outside the study timeline
a data set of the names or identifiers of genes that are the outcome of an analysis or have been put together for the purpose of an analysis .
molecular_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize molecular features of a biological system ,  e .g .
hardware_testing_objective is a methodology_testing_objective role describing a study designed to examine the effects of using different hardware ,  e .g .
a device in which environmental conditions  ( light ,  photoperiod ,  temperature ,  humidity ,  etc . ) 
a reference participant role which is realized by making the reference to qualities at the start of the study or intervention
a device manufacture with the intent to provide a porous unsized paper used for filtering .
a material combination in which cell cultures of two or more different types are are combined and allowed to culture as one .
a nutrient role that inheres in a material entity and is realized in the use of that material entity by an organism to provide all needed nourishment .
a molecular label role which inheres in a material entity which is realized by the process of radioactivity detection
mixed population of cdnas  ( complementarydna )  made from mrna from a defined source ,  usually a specific cell type .
a negative reference substance is a reference role in which the substance playing the reference substance role is physically similar in appearance to the test substance
is the transplantation of tissue from one part of  \ nthe body to another in the same individual .  ) 
a measurement datum measuring the minimal signal that must be detected to generate an electrical event ,  as compared to the maximal detected signal in a flow cytometer instrument .
a study population role where the bearer is a population of material entities and the role is realized in the implementation of a study design wherein the entities bearing the study population role are observed or subjected to intervention according to the study design and are biological replicates ,  i .e .
a quantitative confidence value that represents the probability of obtaining a result at least as extreme as that actually obtained ,  assuming that the actual value was the result of chance alone .
a population is a collection of individuals from the same taxonomic class living ,  counted or sampled at a particular site or in a particular area
an imaging assay is an assay to produce a picture of an entity .
protocol_optimization is a protocol_testing_objective role describing a study designed to identify the best protocol .
a reference participant role realized by equivalent treatment of participants
an assay in which a material's radioactivity is measured .
a role borne by an entity and that is realized in a process that is part of an investigation in which an objective is achieved .
a role that inheres in a material entity and is realized in the use of that material entity by an organism when it is used in that organism's metabolism and provides nourishment .
methodology_testing_objective is an objective role carried out by a proposition defining the aim of the study is to examine the effect of using different methodologies .
a reference role in which the characteristics or responses elicited by the substance playing the reference substance role are used to establish a "no effect" response
cellular_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize a biological feature monitored at the cellular level ,  e .g .
a reference subject  role which inheres in an organism or entity of organismal origin so that the characteristics or responses of the participant playing the reference participant role are used for comparison or reference
a worker role authorized to make study - related decisions and carry out tasks related to the study ;  this role occurs during the study timeline
enzymatic cleavage is a protocol application to digest the fraction of input material that is susceptible to that enzyme
hardware_optimization is a hardware_testing_objective describing a study designed to identify the best hardware .
a quantitative confidence value which is the standard deviations of the sample in a frequency distribution ,  obtained by dividing the standard deviation by the total number of cases in the frequency distribution .
antigen is a role played by material which when introduced into an immune - competent organism causes an immune response
software_testing_objective is a hardware_optimization role describing a study designed to examine the effects of using different software or software parameters ,  e .g .
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
a role that inheres in a material entity and is realized in the use of that material entity by lab animal to provide all needed nourishment .
technical replicate role is realized when two portions from one evaluant are used in replicate runs of an assay
a molecular label role which inheres in a material entity and which is realized in the process of detecting a molecular dye that imparts color to some material of interest .
a data set which is a subset of data that are a similar to each other in some way .
a cohort role is a biological replicate role played by a group of study participants who share a common characteristic of interest to the study .
is a material transformation in which strands of nucleic acids that are  ( somewhat )  complementary form a double - stranded molecule .
a dna extraction is a nucleic acid extraction where the desired output material is dna .
a plan is a realizable entity that is the inheres in a bearer who is committed to realizing it as a planned process .
organism_feature_identification_objective is a biological_feature_identification_objective role describing a study designed to examine or characterize a biological feature monitored at the level of the organism ,  e .g .
a plan specification which has sufficient level of detail and quantitative information to communicate it between investigation agents ,  so that different investigation agents will reliably be able to independently reproduce the process .
is a process with the objective to place a material entity bearing the 'material to be added role' into a material bearing the 'target of material addition role' .
a role borne by a molecular entity or an atom and realized in an analyte assay which achieves the objective to measure the magnitude / concentration / amount of the analyte in the entity bearing evaluant role
a part of an occurrence of a disease process which is associated with position in the normal progression of the disease
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the peritoneum  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
a precipitate is a material entity which is output of a precipitation process
an assay with the objective to determine interactions between proteins ,  such as protein - protein binding .
a planned process with objective to find dna region specifically recognized by proteins that function as transcription factors
a eluate is a material entity which results from an elution ,  e .g .
material to be added role is a protocol participant role realized by a material which is added into a material bearing the target of material addition role in a material addition process
a planned process in which data gathered in an investigation is evaluated in the context of existing knowledge with the objective to generate more general conclusions or to conclude that the data does not allow one to draw general conclusion
a process of creating or modifying a plan specification
histological sample preparation is the preparation of an input tissue via slicing and labeling to make tissue microstructure of interest visible in a future histology assay
a mass analyzer is a device that separates ions according to their mass - to - charge ratio .
an ion source is a device that is part of a mass spectrometer that ionizes the material under analysis .
an ion detector is a device that measures and records the charge induced or current produced when an ion passes by or hits a surface .
metabolite profiling is a process which aims at detecting and identifying chemical entities resulting from biochemical and cellular metabolism
a light emission function is an excitation function to excite a material to a specific excitation state that it emits light .
a contain function is a function to constrain a material entities location in space
a heat function is a function that increases the internal kinetic energy of a material
a material separation function is a function that increases the resolution between two or more material entities .
a excitation function is a function  to inject energy by bombarding a material with energetic particles  ( e .g . ,  photons )  thereby imbuing internal material components such as electrons with additional energy .
a synthesizing function is a function to assemble new output materials from distinct input materials .
a perturb function is a function that disrupts the normal function of a system induced through either internal or external means .
a filter function is a function to prevent the flow of certain entities based on a quality or qualities of the entity while allowing entities which have different qualities to pass through
a mechanical function is a function that is realised via mechanical work  ( through an certain amount of energy transferred by some force )  .
a transfer function is a function to displace a material from one location to another .
an electricity supply function is an energy supply function to transfer electricity from one source to another ,  typically a consumer of the electricity or as a stimulus during a neuroscience experiment .
an ionization function is a function to physically convert an atom or molecule into an ion by adding or removing charged particles such as electrons or other ions .
a cool function is a function to decrease the internal kinetic energy of a material below the initial kinetic energy of that type of material .
an energy supply function is a function to supply or transfer energy from an energy source to a consumer of the energy
an information processor function is a function that converts information from one form to another ,  by a lossless process or an extraction process .
an image acquisition function is a function to acquire an image of a material
an image creation device is a device which captures a digitized image of an object
a solid support function is a function of a device on which an entity is kept in a defined position and prevented in its movement
an environmental control function is a function that regulates a contained environment within specified parameter ranges .
a sort function is a function to distinguish material components based on some associated physical quality or entity and to partition the separate components into distinct fractions according to a defined order .
a complementary nucleotide probe role which inheres in nucleic acid molecular entity and is realized by the use of the entity bearing the role to initiate chain elongation .
is double stranded dna that is the specified output of a polymerase chain reaction
the extraction of rna from an input material that specifically isolates viral rna
a reference substance role which inheres in nucleic acid material entity and is realized in the process of using the nucleic acid bearing the template role as a reference during synthesis of a reverse copy .
a plasmid in which extraneous dna has been inserted .
a vector role played by a small ,  self - replicating dna or rna molecule  -  usually a plasmid or chromosome  -  and realized in a process whereby foreign dna or rna is inserted into the vector during the process of cloning .
a process with the objective to obtain a cell culture in which all cells are in the same stage of the cell cycle
pcr is the process in which a dna polymerase is used to amplify a piece of dna by in vitro enzymatic replication .
cloning insert role is a role which inheres in dna or rna and is realized by the process of being inserted into a cloning vector in a cloning process .
an assay that determines the concentration of glucose molecules in a blood serum sample
enzyme and has_function some go:0003964  ( rna - directed dna polymerase activity ) 
a processed material which is used to introduce or draw fluids from a material entity .
an extract is a material entity which results from an extraction process
an assay which aims to provide information about gene expression and transcription activity using ribonucleic acids collected from a material entity using a range of techniques and instrument such as dna sequencers ,  dna microarrays ,  northern blot
an averaging objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to perform mean calculations on the input of the data transformation .
injection is process which aims at introducing a compound or a mixture into a material entity  ( either biological entity or instrument )  by relying on devices such as syringe or injector connection ,  attached or forced into a vascular system  ( veins of an organism or tubes of a machine )  or in a tissue .
 ( protein or rna )  or has_part  ( protein or rna )  and has_function some go:0003824  ( catalytic activity ) 
the administration of a substance into the peritoneum of an organism
plasmid = dna and has_quality circular and has_function  ( is_realized_as some gene expression )  go:0010467
a process in which an input substance is injected into a organ section .
an assay with the objective to determine a sequence feature of dna
is the specification of an objective to add a material into a target material .
an assay which generates data about a genotype from a specimen of genomic dna .
an assay objective to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in the evaluant
dna sequence variation detection is a process which aims at finding changes  ( expansion ,  amplification ,  deletion ,  mutation )  in sequence of dna molecule .
an objective specification to determine a specified type of information about an evaluated entity  ( the material entity bearing evaluant role ) 
an assay with the objective to capture information about the presence ,  concentration ,  or amount of an analyte in an evaluant .
target of material addition role is a role realized by an entity into which a material is added in a material addition process
a data set that is produced as the output of a normalization data transformation .
measure function is a function that is borne by a processed material  and realized in a process in which information about some entity is expressed relative to some reference .
process data function is a function that is borne by in a material entity by virtue of its structure .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
manufacturing is a process with the intent to produce a processed material which will have a function for future use .
is the objective to manufacture a material of a certain function  ( device ) 
a planned process that realizes the concretization of a study design
a process in which a population of cells with certain characteristics is isolated from a larger population
copy number variation profiling is a process which aims to provide information about lost or amplified genomic regions of dna by comparing genomic dna originated from tissues from same or different individuals using specific techniques such as cgh ,  array cgh ,  snp genotyping .
a material separation process in which cells that stick to the container in which they are grown as a cell culture are separated from those in the liquid component of the culture .
a process in which cells with a single nucleus are isolated from a blood sample
reverse transcribe pcr is a process which allow amplification of cdna during a pcr reaction while the cdna results from a retrotranscription of messenger rna isolated from a material entity .
manufacturer role is a role which inheres in a person or organization and which is realized by a manufacturing process .
a material entity that consists of all the molecules of a specific type that are located in some bounded region and which is part of a more massive material entity that has parts that are other such aggregates
a planned process which aims to provide information about protein expression and translation activity using protein extracts collected from a material entity using a range of techniques and instrument such as mass spectrometers ,  gel electrophoresis ,  western blots ,  protein microarrays
dna sequencing is a sequencing process which uses deoxyribonucleic acid as input and results in a the creation of dna sequence information artifact using a dna sequencer instrument .
an assay which aims to provide information about state of methylation of dna molecules using genomic dna collected from a material entity using a range of techniques and instrument such as dna sequencers and often relying on treatment with bisulfites to ensure cytosine conversion .
is an objective to transform a material entity into spatially separated components .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class discovery data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned discovered class labels .
a data set that is produced as the output of a descriptive statistical calculation data transformation and consists of producing a data set that represents one or more features of interest about the input data set .
a differential expression analysis data transformation is a data transformation that has objective differential expression analysis and that consists of
a portion of urine collected from an organism
is a material processing with the objective to combine two or more material entities as input into a single material entity as output .
a fuzzy clustering objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to assign input objects  ( typically vectors of attributes )  a probability that a point belongs to a class ,  where the number of class and their specifications are not known a priori .
a quality inheres_in some device and is concretization of some  ( device_setting_specification and is_about a quality of the device
a material entity derived from a portion of blood collected from an organism
a data set which is the output of a curve fitting data transformation in which the aim is to find a curve which matches a series of data points and possibly other constraints .
data representational model is an information content entity of the  relationships between data items .
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
a data set that is produced as the output of a background correction data transformation .
a data set that is produced as the output of an error correction data transformation and consists of producing a data set which has had erroneous contributions from the input to the data transformation removed  ( corrected for )  .
a class prediction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class prediction .
a background correction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has the objective background correction .
an error correction data transformation is a data transformation that has the objective of error correction ,  where the aim is to remove  ( correct for )  erroneous contributions from the input to the data transformation .
a material obtained from an organism in order to be a representative of the whole
a statistical hypothesis test data transformation is a data transformation that has objective statistical hypothesis test .
a data item that is produced as the output of a center calculation data transformation and represents the center value of the input data .
is a data transformation objective where the aim is to estimate statistical significance with the aim of proving or disproving a hypothesis by means of some data transformation
a data set that is produced as the output of a data vector reduction data transformation and consists of producing a data set which has fewer vectors than the input data set .
a material separation objective aiming to separate material into multiple portions ,  each of which contains a similar composition of the input material .
a  data item that is produced as the output of an averaging data transformation and represents the average value of the input data .
a material entity which is the output of a process in which one or more whole organisms are prepared in a way to make it easier to study them ,  and in which the great majority of organismal parts are maintained
a material separation objective aiming to separate a material entity that has parts of different types ,  and end with at least one output that is a material with parts of fewer types  ( modulo impurities )  .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
is a process with the objective to prepare a liquid solution of one or more chemicals at desired concentrations .
is an objective to obtain an output material that contains several input materials .
a rodent care protocol is an animal protocol in which the animals being taken care of are rodents .
is a dna sequencer which is manufactured by 454 life science corporation and enables pyrosequencing to be performed .
is a process which realizes a material separation objective by relying on antibodies to specifically binding to material entity
is a dna sequencer which is manufactured by applied biosystems corporation  ( formerly perkin - elmer )  .
is an assay which aims at identifying methylated sites in genomic dna and determining methylation pattern that affect  gene transcription by relying on immunoprecipitation of methylated genomic dna ,  creation of a library of corresponding dna fragments  ( either single or paired - end fragments )  and subsequent sequencing using parallelized sequencing methods .
animal feeding is a process in which animals are provided with food
is a dna sequencing which rely on the use of dideoxynucleotides used in 4 distinct sequencing reaction on the same dna sample .
is a dna sequencer which is manufactured by applied biosystems and which enable dna sequencing by ligation
is a dna sequencing which allows sequence identification of billions of dna molecules immobilized to a surface by using dna polymerase and fluorescently labeled nucleotides added one at a time .
survival assessment is an assay that measures the occurrence of death events in one or more organisms that are monitored over time
a support vector machine is a data transformation with a class prediction objective based on the construction of a separating hyperplane that maximizes the margin between two data sets of vectors in n - dimensional space .
a self - organizing map  ( som )  is an artificial neural network with objective class discovery that uses a neighborhood function to preserve the topological properties of a dataset to produce low - dimensional  ( typically 2 )  discretized representation of the training data set .
is a dna sequencer which is manufactured by 454 life science corporation and enables pyrosequencing to be performed .
is a dna sequence which is manufactured by illumina  ( solexa )  corporation .
a decision tree induction objective is a data transformation objective in which a tree - like graph of edges and nodes is created and from which the selection of each branch requires that some type of logical decision is made .
is a dna sequencing which allows sequence identification by relying on the following steps: 1 .
a decision tree building data transformation is a data transformation that has objective decision tree induction .
a process that realizes an animal care protocol that specifies how animals are kept and maintained
is a dna sequencer which is manufactured by li - cor corporation and enable automated chain termination based dna sequencing
is a process which results in the creation of a library from fragments of dna using cloning vectors or oligonucleotides with the role of adaptors .
a pathogen challenge is the administration of a live pathogenic organism to a host
a software that provides access to more than 100 tools for gene expression analysis ,  proteomics ,  snp analysis and common data processing tasks .
a construct that consists of many nodes connected with edges .
an animal care protocol is a protocol which specifies the environment in which animals are being kept in captivity for research purposes
an assay which aims at identifying protein binding sites in genomic dna and determining how protein may regulate gene transcription by relying on immunoprecipitation of dna bound protein ,  creation of a library of corresponding dna fragments   ( either single or paired - end fragments )  and subsequent sequencing using parallelized sequencing methods .
is a dna sequencer manufacturer by helicos corporation to carry out single molecule sequencing using reversible termination chemistry
pathogen role is a role which inheres in an organism and realized in the process of disease course in the organism bearing host role caused by the organism bearing pathogen role
vaccine preparation is a planned  process with specified output a vaccine
is a process in  which following administration of a bolus a glucose in - vivo ,  glucose clearance from blood plasma is monitored over time by repeated glucose measurement in blood serum .
is a collection of short paired tags from the two ends of dna fragments are extracted and covalently linked as ditag constructs
is a dna sequencing which relies on dna ligase activity to perform chain extension during the sequencing reaction step .
is a dna sequencing which allows sequence identification by relying on use of dna polymerase and reversible terminator .
host role is a role played by an organism and realized by providing nourishment ,  shelter or a means of reproduction to another organism within the organism playing the host role
peak matching is a data transformation performed on a dataset of a graph of ordered data points  ( e .g .
a k - nearest neighbors is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  in which an input data object with vector y is assigned to a class label based upon the k closest training data set points to y ;  where k is the largest value that class label is assigned .
rodent care  is the process by which rodents are being provided with a controlled living environment while kept in captivity for the purpose of research .
is a dna sequencing which allows sequencing of a single strand of dna by synthesizing the complementary strand along it ,  one base pair at a time ,  and detecting which base was actually added at each step .
a recombinant vector is created by a recombinant vector cloning process ,  and contains nucleic acids that can be amplified .
is a dna sequencing which relies on dna polymerase activity to perform chain extension during the sequencing reaction step .
a material consisting of 14 .5% protein ,  8 .5% fat and 9 .5% fiber produced to feed rodents
is a collection of short tags from dna fragments ,  are extracted and covalently linked as single tag constructs
a cloning vector is an engineered material that is used as an input material for a recombinant vector cloning process to carry inserted nucleic acids .
a material sample role is a specimen role borne by a material entity that is the output of a material sampling process .
a clustered data set in which the topology ,  i .e .
a specimen gathering process with the objective to obtain a specimen that is representative of the input material entity
a material entity that has the material sample role
an assay which allows to determine the methylation status of genomic dna using dna sequencing techniques preceded by a bisulfite based chemical modification of genomic dna at cpg island location .
a cart  ( classification and regression trees )  is a data transformation method for producing a classification or regression model with a tree - based structure .
a directive information entity that is part of a study design .
dependent variable specification is part of a study design .
controlled variable specification  is a part of a study design .
a measurement data that represents the percentage of people or animals in a study or treatment group who are alive for a given period of time after diagnosis or initiation of monitoring .
a multiple testing correction objectives is a data transformation objective where the aim is to correct for a set of statistical inferences considered simultaneously
a data transformation which assesses how the results of a statistical analysis will generalize to an independent data set .
a double blind study execution is defined as any study execution in which neither the subjects nor the investigators are informed of which study arm the subjects are part of during the portion of the trial when the subjects are being treated
the objective to separate a material entity into different compositions of which one or more have are purified fractions that contain higher concentration of a desired component ,  while others contain impurities and are not of interest
a process in which bonds are created that link one polymer to another
a measurement datum which represents information about an ordered series of action potentials in an organism's cns measured over time .
is a process in which the tertiary or secondary structure of a polymer is disrupted
a process in which an investigator is made aware of which study arm that a patient is participating in ,  for example whether they are receiving a placebo or a treatment with an investigational compound .
an objective specification maintains some or all of the qualities of a material over time .
a planned process in which an organism is exposed to some stimulus with the intent to invoke an action
dna that has been produced in an enzymatic amplification process
a planned process in which a person or their legal representative is informed about key facts about potential risks and benefits of a process and makes a documented decision as to whether the person in question will participate .
a quality of a dna molecule that inheres in its bearer due to the order of its dna nucleotide residues .
a study subject role which begins to exist when a subject is assigned to be one of those who will receive active ingredient ,  and is realized in a study execution in which they receive the active ingredient
a planned process with the objective to establish the relationship between data produced by a measurement device and physical qualities .
a single blind study execution is defined as any study execution in which the subjects are not informed of which study arm they are part of during the portion of the trial when the subjects are being treated
a planned process ,  part of a study design execution ,  during which the treatment of subjects is ongoing
an organization formed with a goal to have its members conduct investigations
a quality of a dna residue that has a methyl group attached to it
a device in which a measure function inheres .
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules above a molecular weight cutoff are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
a person or organization that has a manufacturer role
a process with that achieves the objective to maintain some or all of the characteristics of an input material over time
a labeled oligonucleotide is a short nucleic acid which underwent a labeling process resulting in a radioactive isotope such as p32 or p33 added to its backbone for instance by end labeling with polynucleotide kinase which added radiolabeled atp to the 5' end of oligonucleotide
the part of the study execution in which the subjects are told what study arm they are in and in which the investigators are told which subjects are in which trials
a process in which the subject is made aware of which study arm they are participating in ,  for example whether they are receiving a placebo or a treatment with an investigational compound .
the primary structure of an rna molecule that is completely defined by the set of its nucleic residue parts and the linear order induced by the peptide bonds that hold them together
a role born by a material entity and realized in a process where the substance is used as specified as the independent variable for an investigation
a rna extraction process typically involving the use of poly dt oligomers in which the desired output material is polya rna .
a rna extraction process in which the desired output material is rna in the organelle ( s )  .
a information content entity created to indicate that information about something is not available to the person recording it .
a rna extraction process in which total cellular and organelle rna are extracted .
a role played by a nucleic acid molecule that is used in a planned process for its ability to bind a nucleic acid molecules with complementary nucleotide sequence
a record indicating that the biological sex of an organism is not known .
a rna extraction process in which the desired output material is rna in the cytoplasm .
likelihood - ratio is a data transformation which tests whether there is evidence of the need to move from a simple model to a more complicated one  ( where the simple model is nested within the complicated one )  ;  tests of the goodness - of - fit between two models .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules found in the nucleus ,  including mrna precursors  ( pre - mrna )  ,  are extracted .
is a planned process in which the objective is to generate a cell line from a natural population of cancer cells which are already immortal
a pattern matching objective aims to detect the presence of the constituents of a given pattern .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules with poly a tail at its 3 end are purified .
is an assay which aims to provide information about the secondary structure of nucleic acids using chemical or enzymatic probing to establish the extent of base - pairing or solvent accessiblity .
a specimen that was taken from a live organism
an assay in which a specified input material is examined for the presence or quantity of specified nucleic acid polymers ,  which are identified based on the use of complementary nucleic acid probes .
a rna extract that is the output of a rna extraction process in which rna molecules found in the cytoplasm are extracted .
an establishing cell line process whereby a mortal cell line is intentionally genetically modified to be capable of indefinite propagation and re - established as a new immortal cell line
a labeling in which random primers are used to uniformly label input dna
an extract which is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a quality inhering in a molecule that refers to general three - dimensional form of local segments of biopolymers such as proteins and nucleic acids  ( dna / rna )  .
a rna extraction process in which the desired output material is rna in the nucleus .
an assay which measures the rate of proliferation of input cells
a laboratory technique based on the pcr ,  which is used to amplify and simultaneously quantify a specific dna molecule based on the use of complementary probes / primers .
a protein extract is the output of an extraction process from tissues or cell cultures resulting in a solution of cellular and / or organellar proteins in buffer solution used to prevent degradation , 
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which total celluar and organelle rna molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a rna extract that is the output of an extraction process in which rna molecules found in an organelle ,  e .g . ,  mitochondrion ,  er ,  or chloroplast ,  excluding the nucleus ,  are extracted .
a specimen that was taken from a dead organism
information about a sequence region
the planned process of providing material entities to be used in an investigation .
a labeled specimen that is the output of a labeling process and has grain labeled dna to be able to detect dna in future experiments .
a specimen obtained by inserting a swab deeply into the vent of the cloaca of an organism and vigorously swabbing the wall .
is_a pcr real time preceded by a reverse transcription step  ( reverse transcription step = an rna strand is reverse transcribed into its dna complement using the enzyme reverse transcriptase ) 
an assay in which expression of a reporter gene is detected that was inserted under the control of a promoter of interest .
a speciemn which derives from nasopharyngeal mucosa after aspiration .
a process in which a material entity has it's temperature lowered to below the freezing point in order to bring it to a state in which it can be maintained at this lower temperature in order to preserve some of its qualities
a specimen obtained using a cotton swab on a stick ,  passed up the nostril to obtain a sample of exudate and epithelial debris for microbiological or cellular examination .
a culture medium containing iron ,  phenol red ,  amino acids ,  salts ,  glucose and vitamins .
a process in which is the end of life of animal is brought about in accordance with local regulations on treatment of animal subjects and using a method which causes minimal pain and distress to the animal subject
an assay in which a series of beads coated with antibodies specific for different analytes and marked with discrete fluorescent labels are used to simultaneously capture and quantitate soluble analytes using flow cytometric analysis .
a labeled specimen that is the output of a labeling process and has grain labeled rna to be able to detect rna in future experiments .
a specimen that has been frozen in order to store it .
a specimen  that has been modified in order to be able to detect it in future experiments
is a material entity bearing the disposition to infect an organism
a storage process with input material entity and output freeze dried material for long time storage
a material separation function is a function that decreases the resolution between two or more material entities .
the part of the execution of an intervention design study which is varied between two or more subjects in the study
a device with a separation function realized in a planed process
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the muscle  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
a measurement datum that is reported on a categorical scale
a process that achieves a training objective
a role which inheres in a person who uses a service
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the dermis  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
chemical cleavage is a protocol application relying on a chemical compound to cause the fragmentation of an input material that is susceptible to that chemical agent
a function to remove viable organisms from an input material
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
is realized in a planned process where the bearer participates
a specimen that is output of a paraffin storage process in which specimen is embedded in paraffin
an intervention design in which the treatment is the administration of a compound
the administration of a substance into the mouth of an organism
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
is the injection of a material entity  ( bearing the administered substance role )  into the hypodermis  ( bearing the target role )  of an organism using a syringe
an training objective which is fulfilled by the provision of some training
a specimen that is output of a lyophilization storage process in which specimen is lyophilized for storage .
an assay in which a measurement is made by observing entities located in an organism .
a device that can be used to restrict the location of material entities over time
a material entity that is designed to perform a function in a scientific investigation ,  but is not a reagent .
a directive information entity that describes the dose that will be administered to a target
a measurement datum which is the result of combining multiple datum .
a specimen that is output of a specimen creation process used for an investigation without storage .
a measurement datum that representing the primary structure of a macromolecule ( it's sequence )  sometimes associated with an indicator of confidence of that measurement .
a storage process with input organism or anatomical entity and paraffin and output material embedded in paraffin for long term storage
a specimen that is output of a process that cell culture inoculated into agar for long term storage .
a measurement datum that measures the quantity of something that may be administered to an organism or that an organism may be exposed to .
a study design in which the independent variable is the environmental condition in which the specimen is growing
a device that is used to amplify a single or few copies of a piece of dna across several orders of magnitude ,  generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular dna sequence .
is a dna sequencing  process provided as a service  -  which is the realization of some dna sequencing in which the service provider role is realized .
the directed combination of a material entity with a specimen .
the collection of material entities and their qualities that are located near a live organism ,  tissue or cell and can influence its growth .
a device formed by conducting material or by a mesh of such material ,  that blocks out external static electric fields .
a storage process with input cell culture and agar and output agar stab for long time storage
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay which uses cmct as reagent and chemical probe to generate data and information at nucleotide resolution scale contributing to the determination of nucleic acid secondary structure
a planned process that captures an image of an object .
a single - nucleotide - resolution ribonucleic acid structure mapping assay which uses fe - mp as reagent and chemical probe to generate data and information at nucleotide resolution scale contributing to the determination of nucleic acid secondary structure
an extract that is the output of an extraction process in which nucleic acid molecules are isolated from a specimen .
a single - nucleotide - resolution nucleic acid structure mapping assay which relies on small chemical compounds acting as chemical probes  in order to produce measurement information which one interpreted provide structural information about the rna species under study .
an assay of changes in phenotype due to increased or decreased dosage of a single allele of a gene .
a planed process with objective of obtaining quantified values from an image .
an image creation process that generate an image from the array .
a device which has a function to emit light .
a perturbation device is a device which is designed to perform a perturb function
an environmental control device is a device which has the function to control some aspect of the environment such as temperature ,  or humidity .
is a transfer function that displaces cells from one place to another
a device that is used to isolate and collect rna for subsequent molecular analysis .
the output of an extraction process in which dna molecules are purified in order to exclude dna from organellas .
a manufacturer role which is played by the person or organization that manufactured the array
a device that creates an appropriate environment for nucleic acid hybridization .
an incubating device that provides shaking motion for biomedical applications  ( e .g . ,  cell cultures )  .
a mass spectrometer in which ions are subjected to two or more sequential stages of analysis  ( which may be separated spatially or temporally )  according to the quotient mass / charge .
a group of linked computers ,  working together closely so that in many respects they form a single computer .
an device that is used to determine the order of nucleotides in nucleic acid sequences .
a device that is used to acquire and image bead array data .
an pcr instrument that enables both detection and quantification of one or more specific sequences in a dna sample .
a device that is used to isolate and collect nucleic acids  ( dna or rna )  for subsequent molecular analysis .
a device that is used to isolate and collect dna for subsequent molecular analysis .
a device that is used to harvest cells from microplates and deposit samples on a filter mat .
a device that is used for the dissection of tissues under magnification .
a crid symbol used to distinguish one individual organism from another .
a reference substance role that is borne by a material entity used in a dye swap design experiment for quality control or data normalization purposes
a labeled specimen that is the output of a labeling process and has grain labeled nucleic acid for detection of the nucleic acid in future experiments .
a binding datum about the disposition of two or more material entities to form complexes which comes in the form of a scalar and unit that are utilized in equations that model the binding process
a 3d structure determination assay in which a complex of 2 or more material enties is characterized which provides information on their mode of binding .
an assay with the objective to characterize the disposition of two or more material entities to form a complex .
a processual entity that results in the increase of cell numbers
a genetic transformation that renders a gene non - functional ,  e .g .
a genetic transformation that involves the insertion of a protein coding cdna sequence at a particular locus in an organism's chromosome .
a genetic transformation in which all ,  or part ,  of a chromosome from a donor replaces that of the recipient .
a material entity ,  organism or cell ,   that is the output of a genetic transformation process .
a genetic transformation which relies on the use of physical ,  electrical and chemical phenomena to introduce dna or rna into a cell
a material transformation objective aims to create genetically modified organism or cell
a genetic transformation that the modification of the genetic material  ( either coding or non - coding )  of an organism is caused by mutagenic compounds or irradiation .
a measurement datum that describes the structural orientation of a material entity in 3d space .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since planting ,  the process of placing a plant in media  ( e .g .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since hatching ,  the process of emergence from an egg .
an assay that measures the duration of temporal interval of a process that is part of the life of the bearer ,  where the initial time point of the measured process is the beginning of some transitional state of the bearer such as birth or when planted .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since egg laying ,  the process of the production of egg ( s )  by an organism .
an objective specification to check the accuracy or the quality of the results of an assay by comparison with independent results
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since germination ,  the process consisting of physiological and developmental changes by a seed ,  spore ,  pollen grain  ( microspore )  ,  or zygote that occur after release from dormancy ,  and encompassing events prior to and including the first visible indications of growth .
a study design in which checks the accuracy or the quality of the result of an assay  by comparing with reverse transcription pcr results
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since eclosion ,  the process of emergence of an adult insect from its pupa or cocoon .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since sowing ,  the process of placing a seed or spore in some media with the intention to invoke germination .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since coitus ,  the process of copulation that occurs during the process of sexual reproduction .
a study design in which the accuracy or the quality of the result of an assay is checked by comparing with real time pcr results
a time measurement datum that is the result of measurement of age of an organism
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since fertilization ,  the process of the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
an age measurement datum that is the result of the measurement of the age of an organism since birth ,  the process of emergence and separation of offspring from the mother .
an assay that evaluates the concentration of rna in a sample in which an rna strand is first reverse transcribed into its dna complement  ( complementary dna ,  or cdna )  using the enzyme reverse transcriptase ,  and the resulting cdna is amplified using traditional or real - time pcr .
the time it takes for 50% of a class of stochastic processes to occur .
a data item of paired values ,  one indicating the dose of a material ,  the other quantitating a measured effect at that dose .
a planned process in which a service provider performs a task  ( i .e .
an objective specification to generate a population or type of organism within species that have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred organisms .
rna sequencing is a sequencing process which uses ribonucleic acid as input and results in a the creation of rna sequence information artifact
half maximal effective concentration  ( ec50 )  is a scalar measurement datum corresponding to the concentration of a compound which induces a response halfway between the baseline and maximum after some specified exposure time .
a data item that states if two or more material entities have the disposition to form a complex ,  and if so ,  how strong that disposition is .
a binding datum that states that there is no significant disposition of two or more entities to form a complex
an organism that is bred to have some uniform behavioral ,  morphological ,  physiological ,  or genetic characteristics with similarly bred organisms
an assay in which the presence or amount of an infectious agent in an input material is detected in an evaluant
half maximal inhibitory concentration  ( ic50 )  is a scalar measurement datum that measures the effectiveness of a compound to competitively inhibit a given process ,  and corresponds to the concentration of the compound at which it reaches half of its maximum inhibitory effect .
a study design that assesses the operator performance and relation to data consistency and quality .
a study design that detects genomic copy number variations using microarray technology .
a study design that is conducted entirely in a living organism ,  e .g .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps using high througput sequencing techniques .
a study design in which the innate behavior of the organism is examined ,  e .g .
a dna microarray used to detect polymorphisms in dna samples
a study design that compares samples from different cell components .
a study design where all or part of an organism is removed and studied in vitro ,  e .g .
a study design that tests different normalization procedures .
an assay where chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  is used in combination with snp microarray technology
a genetic characteristics information which is a part of genotype information that identifies the population of organisms
a study design in which some aspect of the organism's environmental history is studied ,  such as exposure to teratogen ,  radiation ,  climate etc .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to detect epigenetic modifications ,  such as dna methylation ,  histone modifications .
an assay in which the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed using a tiling path array .
a study design in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
an assay in which high througput sequencer is used to detect polymorphisms in dna samples
an assay that aims to investigate the interactions between protein and dna relying on chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( 'chip' )  combined with microarray technology  ( 'chip' )  .
a study design in which the array platform is compared ,  e .g .
a study design which aims to identify protein and dna interactions using a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and high throughput sequencing .
a study design that characterizes the association of transcripts and translation machinery .
a quantitative confidence value resulting from a multiple testing error correction method which adjusts the p - value used as input to control for type i error in the context of multiple pairwise tests
an assay in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using sequencing based technology
an assay in which sequencing technology  ( e .g .
an assay in which an array is used to detect polymorphisms in dna samples
a study design in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using array technology .
an assay in which surface - bound ,  translationally competent ribosome complexes are used to generate a translation profile for mrna ,  which mrna may be a single molecular species ,  or a combination of species ,  including complex mixtures such as those found in the set of mrnas isolated from a cell or tissue .
a study design that is done in a test tube or a culture dish ,  e .g .
a study design in which experiment double stranded rna is synthesized with a sequence complementary to a gene ( s )  of interest and introduced into a cell or organism ,  where it is recognized as exogenous genetic material and activates the rnai pathway resulting in knockdown of the transcripts and providing a means to study downstream changes in gene expression .
a study design that identifies forms and abundance of transcripts in the genome using microarray technology .
a study design in which the pathological condition of a part ,  organ ,  or system of an organism is studied .
a genotype information about an organism and includes information that there are no known modifications to the genetic background .
an assay in which double stranded rna is synthesized with a sequence complementary to a gene ( s )  of interest and introduced into a cell or organism ,  where it is recognized as exogenous genetic material and activates the rnai pathway resulting in knockdown of the transcripts and providing a means to study downstream changes in gene expression .
a genetic characteristics information that is about the genetic material of an organism and minimally includes information about the genetic background and can in addition contain information about specific alleles ,  genetic modifications ,  etc .
a study design that examines the stability and / or decay of rna transcripts .
a dna microarray which has short fragments of nucleic acid immobilized on a substrate .
a study design that assays differences between distinct species .
a study design which aims to examine the transcriptome of a biological sample by reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr )  .
an assay that proteins in a sample are detected ,  quantified or otherwise analysed ,  e .g .
a study design in which a microrna array is used to analyse the microrna component of the transcriptome .
a study design that assays events associated with development .
a study design in which the family history such as traits ,  characteristics ,  susceptibility to disease is studied .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to characterize the abundance of transcripts
an assay in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using array technology
an assay in which a microrna array is used to analyse the microrna component of the transcriptome .
a study design in which some aspects of the experiment is quality controlled for the purposes of quality assurance .
a study design that the organism's clinical history of diagnosis ,  treatments ,  e .g .
a genetic alteration information that about one of two or more alternative forms of a gene or marker sequence and differing from other alleles at one or more mutational sites based on sequence .
a study design in which a modification of the transcriptome ,  proteome  ( not genome )  is made ,  for example rnai ,  antibody targeting .
an assay in which the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed by reverse transcription pcr  ( rt - pcr ) 
a genetic characteristics information that is about known changes or the lack thereof from the genetic background ,  including allele information ,  duplication ,  insertion ,  deletion ,  etc .
a study design that aims to study the processes that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
an allele information that is about the allele found most frequently in natural populations ,  or in standard laboratory stocks for a given organism .
a study design in which the response of an organism ( s )  to injury or damage is studied .
a study design that compares samples from live and dead organisms .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps using microarray technology .
an assay in which changes in dna sequence copy number are analysed using a microarray .
a study design in which the response of an organism ( s )  to the stress or stimulus is studied ,  e .g .
a sequence feature identification objective that aims to characterize the interactions between protein and dna which includes identification of transcription factor binding sites .
a study design where different protocols or protocol parameters are compared aims to find an optimized protocol
a study design which aims to identify protein binding sites in genomic dna by a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and dna microarray  ( chip )  assays .
a data item that is about genetic material including polymorphisms ,  disease alleles ,  and haplotypes .
a study design where differences in genetic imprinting of maternally -  and paternally - inherited chromosomes  ( e .g . ,  due to in vivo differences in chemical modification and / or chromatin structure )  are compared .
a study design that assays events that occur in relation to the cell cycle ,  which is the period between the formation of a cell ,  by division of its mother cell and the time when the cell itself divides to form two daughter cells .
a study design in which surface - bound ,  translationally competent ribosome complexes are used to generate a translation profile for mrna ,  where mrna may be a single molecular species ,  or a combination of species ,  including complex mixtures such as those found in the set of mrnas isolated from a cell or tissue .
a study design that compares cells of different type ,  for example different cell lines .
a study design which aims to identify protein binding sites in genomic dna by a combination of chromatin immunoprecipitation and tiling microarray  ( chip )  assays .
a study design that examines the relationship between the size of the administered dose and the extent of the response .
an assay where chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  is used in combination with tiling  microarray technology
a study design that compares tissues ,  regions ,  organs within or between organisms
a study design that investigates protein binding sites on nucleic acids .
a study design that assays differences associated with an organism's sex ,  gender or mating type .
a study design in which gene expression on a genome - wide basis is evaluated ,  without bias toward coding or noncoding regions ,  using tiling arrays containing oligonucleotides that are either overlapping or spaced at regular intervals .
a study design that assays events associated with cell development or differentiation .
a study design that identifies forms and abundance of transcripts in the genome .
a study design that identifies locations and members of operons in a genome .
a study design in which the methylation state of dna is determined and is compared between samples using high throughput sequencing technology .
a study design in which all specimens are compared to every other specimen .
a study design in which proteins in a sample are detected ,  quantified or otherwise analysed ,  e .g .
a quantitative confidence value that measures the minimum false discovery rate that is incurred when calling that test significant .
a study design that classifies an individual or group of individuals on the basis of alleles ,  haplotypes ,  snps .
a study design where genotype ,  haplotype ,  or other individual genetic characteristics are compared .
a study design in which an infective agent such as a bacterium ,  virus ,  protozoan ,  fungus etc .
a study design in which an organism ( s )  is studied that has had genetic material removed ,  rearranged ,  mutagenized or added ,  such as in a knock out .
an assay in which  the transcriptome of a biological sample is analysed using array technology .
a study design that assays differences between multiple strains ,  cultivars ,  serovars ,  isolates ,  lines from organisms of a single species .
a specimen primarily composed of cells collected from a multicellular organism or a cell culture
a specimen for which it is known whether it has been subjected to storage of a specified type .
a lowess transformation where a potentially different normalization curve is generated and used for two or more groups  ( delineated by some criteria )  ;  criteria could include blocks  ( e .g .
a data transformation of normalizing ratio data by using a locally weighted polynomial regression  ( typically after a log transformation )  .
a specimen that derives from an anatomical part or substance arising from an organism .
a lowess transformation where the same normalization curve is used for all members of the data set ;  e .g .
a planned process that collects cells from culture .
an enzymatic amplification which amplifies nucleic acid sequence by making many copies off the same template .
a growth environment pertaining to the atmospheric conditions that is used to culture or grow an organism .
a planned process that separates and isolates tissues for surgical purposes ,  or for the analysis or study of their structures .
a planned process to separate a material entity into different compositions of which one or more have are purified fractions that contain higher concentration of a desired component ,  while others contain impurities and are not of interest
a specimen that has been established to be taken from a live  ( pre - mortem )  or dead  ( post - mortem )  organism .
a time measurement datum when an observation is made or a sample is taken from a material as measured from some reference point .
an algorithm used to assemble individual sequence reads into larger contiguous sequences  ( contigs )  .
a service which has a material entity as specified input and / or specified output .
a binding constant defined as the ratio of kon over koff  ( on - rate of binding divided by off - rate ) 
interpreting data from assays that evaluate the qualities or dispositions inhering in an organism or organism part and comparing it to data from other organisms to make a conclusion about a phenotypic difference
a service in which a service consumer provides some input material and a service provider performs some analysis of this material to generate data that is returned to the service consumer .
a binding constant defined as the ratio of koff over kon  ( off - rate of binding divided by on - rate ) 
a scalar measurement datum that represents the number of events occuring over a time interval
a measurement of an ic50 value under specific assay conditions approximates kd ,  namely the binding reaction is at an equilibrium ,  there is a single population of sites on the receptor that competitor and ligand are binding to ,  and the concentration of the receptor must be much less than the kd for the competitor and the ligand .
a sequence data item that is about the primary structure of dna
interpreting data from assays that evaluate the qualities or dispositions inhering in an organism or organism part and comparing it to data from other organisms that have a defined genetic difference ,  and assigning a property to the product of the targeted gene as a result .
a measurement of an ec50 value under specific assay conditions approximates kd ,  namely the binding reaction is at an equilibrium ,   and the concentration of the receptor must be much less than the kd for the ligand .
a half life datum of the time it takes for 50% of bound complexes in an ensemble to disassociate in absence of re - association .
the process of material entities forming complexes .
a rate measurement datum of how quickly bound complexes disassociate
a rate measurement datum of how quickly bound complexes form
a crid symbol uniquely indentifies the submitted genebank sequence record .
a textual entity that describes an investigation .
a crid symbol denotes a specimen and used to distinguish one specimen from another in an investigation .
a crid symbol that is sufficient to look up a citation from the pubmed ,  a literature database of life sciences and biomedical information .
an average value of the depth of sequence coverage based both on external  ( e .g .
a time measurement datum that is the measure of the time when the specimens are collected .
a measurement datum that is the measure of the latitude coordinate of a site .
a measurement datum that is the measure of the longitude coordinate of a site .
a textual entity that denotes an investigation .
a biological feature identification objective to identify the organism species in a specimen .
an assay that identifies the organism species in a specimen .
an algorithm used to identify sequence features  ( e .g .
a textual entity that denotes a geographic location that is a site or part of a site that is identified as a country in the political geography .
a crid symbol used to identify an investigation .
a material entity that is generated by a purification process in which an input material is separated to obtain a fraction with a higher concentration of a desired component
rpa is a technique to assess the presence and estimate abundance of transcript species by first creating an homo or heteroduplex by adding a specific ,  complementary sequence to the sequence of interest and then exposing the mixture of ribonuclease ,  which will degrade only single stranded molecules .
is an assay which aims to provide information about protein - dna or protein - rna interaction and which used gel electrophoresis and relies on the fact the molecular interactions will cause the heterodimer to be retarded on the gel when compared to controls corresponding to protein extract alone and protein extract  +  neutral nucleic acid .
is an assay which transiently disrupts gene transcripts by expressing antisense rna constructs or delivering rna interfering molecules in cells .
nano - cage is a type of cage developed to work from very low amount  ( nanogram scale )  of mrna samples
an assay which aims at monitoring rna transcript abundances in biological samples by extracting 5' ends of capped transcripts ,  rtpcr and sequence those .
yeast 2 hybrid screen is an assay meant  to discover proteinprotein interactions and proteindna interactions by testing for physical interactions  ( such as binding )  between two proteins or a single protein and a dna molecule ,  respectively .
the one - hybrid variation of this technique is designed to investigate proteindna interactions and uses a single fusion protein in which the ad is linked directly to the binding domain .
 is a method for identifying the sequence - specific target site of a dna - binding domain .
is an in - situ hybridization assay that uses fluorescence as means of detection chromosomal integrity
is an assay which uses initial modification of dna by sodium bisulfite ,  converting all unmethylated ,  but not methylated ,  cytosines to uracil ,  and subsequent amplification with primers specific for methylated versus unmethylated dna .
 amplification of intermethylated sites  ( aims )  is an assay appropriate for genome - wide estimates of dna methylation and the discovery of specific methylated sequences .
is an assay using artificially induced nucleic hybridization to localize a specific dna or rna sequence in a portion or section of tissue
an assay with the objective to determine presence of an analyte by mixing a solution of antigen and antibody and separating out bound antigen:antibody complexes using immunoprecipitation .
a directive information entity which defines and states a principle of standard by which selection process may take place .
a planned process in which new information is inferred from existing information .
an assay that incorporates chromatin immunoprecipitation  ( chip )  - based enrichment ,  chromatin proximity ligation ,  paired - end tags ,  and high - throughput sequencing to determine de novo long - range chromatin interactions genome - wide .
an assay that incorporates paired - end tags and sequencing technology to determine structural variants .
an assay that incorporates paired - end tags and sequencing technology to determine transcripts ,  gene structures ,  and gene expressions .
a transcription profiling identification objective that aims to characterize the transcription start sites of genes .
a library preparation that results in the creation of a library of the 5' and 3' ends of dna or cdna fragments using adaptors and endonucleases .
an assay to identify the location of regulatory regions ,  based on the genome - wide sequencing of regions super sensitive to cleavage by dnase i .
a sequence feature identification objective that aims to characterize the interactions between protein and rna .
an assay that combines immunoprecipitation of an rna - binding protein and rna - seq to identify mrnas associated with selected rna binding proteins  ( rbps )  .
an assay that employs uv - crosslinking between rna and the protein ,  followed by immunoprecipitation with antibodies for the protein ,  fragmentation ,  and high - throughput used for screening for rna sequences that interact with a particular rna - binding protein .
an assay to determine the sequences of those dna regions in the genome associated with regulatory activity .
an assay that identifies unmethylated cpgs by  use of methylation sensitive restriction enzymes to fragment dna .
a bisulfite sequencing assay that identifies genomic methylation patterns by using a bisulfite based protocol that enriches cg - rich parts of the genome .
a bisulfite sequencing assay that identifies methylated cytosines across the genome using high throughput sequencing .
an assay that identifies transcription start sites  ( tss )  ,  the quantification of their expression and the characterization of their transcripts using high throughput sequencing .
a cultured cell that has been passaged or derives from a cell that has been passaged in culture .
a process whereby a new type of cell line is created ,  either through passaging of a primary cell culture to relative genetic stability and compositional homogeneity ,  or through some experimental modification of an existing cell line to produce a new line with novel characteristics   ( e .g .
a cultured cell population comprised of a single type of immune system cell
a material entity comprised of cultured cells and the media in which they are being propagated or stored .
a biological or chemical entity that bears a reagent role in virtue of it being intended for application in a scientific technique  to participate in  ( or have molecular parts that participate in )  a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some distinct entity ,  or the generation of some distinct material specified output .
a sample preparation for assay that preparation of nucleic acids for a sequencing assay
a service provides sequencing service which is the realization of some sequencing such as rna and dna sequencing in which the service provider role is realized .
a cultured cell population that is derived through one or more passages in culture .
an immortal cell line derived from a transformed cell that was part of a malignant tumor .
a genetic transformation of a cell line cell with transgenic constructs intended to confer the capability for indefinite propagation in culture
an information content entity that expresses an assertion that is intended to be tested .
an information content entity that is inferred from data .
a cell culture comprised of primary cultured cells and the media in which they are being actively propaged or quiescently stored .
a cell culture comprised of cell line cells and the media in which they are being actively propagated or quiescently stored .
a processed material that serves as a liquid vehicle for freezing cells for long term quiescent stroage ,  which contains chemicls needed to sustain cell viability across freeze - thaw cycles .
a polymerase chain reaction that amplifies multiple targets with a single primer pair mediated by hybridization of a primer with its target sequence using ligation .
an assay in which timing of dna replication is quantified as a function of genome position using array technology .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to examine charateristics of dna replication ,  such as replication time .
a molecular feature identification objective that aims to determine spatial organization of chromatin .
an assay that combines immunoprecipitation of an rna - binding protein and array technology to identify mrnas associated with selected rna binding proteins  ( rbps )  .
an assay that is used to analyze the organization of chromosomes at the genome - wide scale .
an assay in which timing of dna replication is quantified as a function of genome position based on genome - wide sequencing .
a rna - binding protein immunoprecipitation array profiling assay that combines immunoprecipitation of an rna - binding protein and rna tiling array  to identify mrnas associated with selected rna binding proteins  ( rbps )  .
a rna - seq assay in which high throughput sequencing technology is used to analyse the microrna component of the transcriptome .
a sequencing assay in which amino acid sequences of proteins is determined using multiple rounds of mass spectrometry and molecule fragmentation .
an assay to identify nucleosome positioning by genome wide sequencing of regions senstative to digestion by micrococal nuclease
a chip - seq assay to identify protein binding sites using an exonuclease  to provide greater binding resolution of immunoprecipitation assay by genome wide sequencing .
a transcription profiling assay in which aims to quantify the microrna species within a biological sample .
a planned process which results in the creation of group of entity from a larger group by the application of predefined criteria .
a value specification that is specifies one category out of a fixed number of nominal categories
a value specification that consists of two parts: a numeral and a unit label
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
a material entity that is the specified output of an addition of molecular label process that aims to label some molecular target to allow for its detection in a detection of molecular label assay
a material entity which results from viral transformation process using ebv as transformation agent when applied to b - cell entity
an organism which contains cells or tissues with a different genotype
a material entity which corresponds to the liquid component of blood ,  in which the blood cells are suspended .
a material entity which derives from blood and corresponds to blood plasma without fibrinogen or the other clotting factors .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a material entity which results from the transplantation of living cells ,  tissues or organs  from on organism of one species to an organism of another species .
a processed material comprised of a collection of cultured cells that has been continuously maintained together in culture and shares a common propagation history .
a cultured cell population comprised of cells expanded directly from living tissue prior to being passaged .
a cultured cell population comprised of cells which can all be traced back to a single ancestor cell ,  and which therefore can be treated as identical .
a screening library is a collection of materials engineered to identify qualities of a subset of its members during a screening process?
a synthetic peptide is an material entity which is artificially engineered and results from the synthesis of a chain of amino acids which may also be found in natural protein and be identical in sequence to a protein fragment
a processed material which derives from an organ and results from a process of dissection or histological sample preparation a portion ( formerly an organ section is portion of an organ removed from the context of the organ ) 
group of biomaterials present in the bronchial aveolar space of an organism which are collected through lavage including the reagents used to for the lavage process ,  organisms ,  cells ,  and cellular secretions present in the bronchial aveolar space .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
a logistic - log curve fitting is a curve fitting where a curve of the form y=d +  (  ( a - d )  /  ( 1 +  ( x / c ) ^b )  )  is obtained ,  where a ,  b ,  c ,  and d are determined so to optimize its fit to the input data points  ( x_1 ,  y_1 )  ,   ( x_2 ,  y_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( x_n ,  y_n )  .
a logit - log curve fitting is a curve fitting where first the limits y_0 an y_infty of y when x -  > 0 and x -  > infinity ,  respectively ,  are estimated from the input data points  ( x_1 ,  y_1 )  ,   ( x_2 , y_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( x_n ,  y_n )  .
a log - log curve fitting is a curve fitting where first a logarithmic transformation is applied both to the x and the y coordinates of the input data points  ( x_1 ,  y_1 )  ,   ( x_2 ,  y_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( x_n ,  y_n )  ,  and then coefficients a and b are determined to optimize the fit of log ( y ) =a + b*log ( x )  to these input data points .
a feature extraction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim of the data transformation is to generate quantified values from a scanned image .
a biexponential transformation is a data transformation that ,  for each  ( one dimensional )  real number input x ,  outputs an approximation  ( found ,  e .g .
a box - cox transformation is a data transformation according to the methods of box and cox as described in the article box ,  g . e . p . and cox ,  d .r .
a hyperlog transformation ia a data transformation that ,  for each  ( one dimensional )  real number input x ,  outputs an approximation  ( found ,  e .g .
a loess scale group transformation one - channel is a loess scale group transformation consisting in the application of a scale adjustment following a loess group transformation one - channel ,  to render the m group variances similar .
a logical transformation is a data transformation that ,  for each  ( one dimensional )  real number input x ,  outputs an approximation  ( found ,  e .g .
a loess scale group transformation two - channel is a loess scale group transformation consisting in the application of a scale adjustment following a loess group transformation two - channel ,  to render the m group variances similar .
a loess global transformation one - channel is a loess global transformation in the special case where the input is the result of an ma transformation applied to intensities from two related one - channel assays .
a split - scale transformation is a data transformation which is an application of a function f described as follows to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
a loess global transformation two - channel is a loess global transformation in the special case where the input the result of an ma transformation applied to intensities from the two channels of a two - channel assay .
a sine transformation is a data transformation which consists in applying the sine function to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
a cosine transformation is a data transformation which consists in applying the cosine function to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
a loess group transformation one - channel is a loess group transformation in the special case where the input is the result of an ma transformation applied to intensities from two related one - channel assays .
a loess group transformation two - channel is a loess group transformation in the special case where the input is the result of an ma transformation applied to intensities from the two channels of a two - channel assay .
a homogeneous polynomial transformation is a polynomial transformation where all the term of the polynomial have the same degree .
a linlog transformation is a data transformation ,  described in pmid 16646782 ,  whose input is a matrix  [ y_ik ]  and whose output is a matrix obtained by applying formula  ( 9 )  of this paper ,  where values below an appropriately determined threshold  ( dependent on the row i )  are transformed via a polynomial of degree 1 ,  and values above this threshold are transformed via a logarithm .
a variance stabilizing transformation is a data transformation ,  described in pmid 12169536 ,  whose input is a matrix  [ y_ik ]  and whose output is a matrix obtained by applying formula  ( 6 )  in this paper .
a loess global transformation is a loess transformation where only one loess fitting is performed ,  utilizing one subset of  ( or possibly all of )  the data points in the input so that there is only one resulting loess curve y=f ( x )  which is used for the transformation .
a loess group transformation is a loess transformation where the input is partitioned into groups and for each group a loess fitting is performed ,  utilizing a subset of  ( or possibly all of )  the data points in that group .
a loess scale group transformation is a data transformation consisting in the application of a scale adjustment following a loess group transformation ,  to render the group variances for the second variable  ( y )  similar .
a total intensity transformation single is a data transformation that takes as input an n - dimensional  ( real )  vector and multiplies each component of this vector by a coefficient ,  where the coefficient is obtained by taking the sum of the input components or of a subset of these ,  multiplied by a constant of choice .
a total intensity transformation paired is a data transformation that takes as input two n - dimensional  ( real )  vectors and multiplies each component of the first vector by a coefficient ,  where the coefficient is obtained by taking the ratio of the sum of the second input components or of a subset of these by the sum of the first input components or of a subset of these  ( the same subset is used for the two vectors )  .
a quantile transformation is a data transformation that takes as input a collection of data sets ,  where each can be thought as an n - dimensional  ( real )  vector ,  and which transforms each data set so that the resulting output data sets have equal quantiles .
a mean centering is a data transformation that takes as input an n - dimensional  ( real )  vector ,  performs a mean calculation on its components ,  and subtracts the resulting mean from each component of the input .
a median centering is a data transformation that takes as input an n - dimensional  ( real )  vector ,  performs a median calculation on its components ,  and subtracts the resulting median from each component of the input .
a differential expression analysis objective is a data transformation objective whose input consists of expression levels of entities  ( such as transcripts or proteins )  ,  or of sets of such expression levels ,  under two or more conditions and whose output reflects which of these are likely to have different expression across such conditions .
k - fold cross - validation randomly partitions the original sample into k subsamples .
is a data transformation :  leave - one - out cross - validation  ( loocv )  involves using a single observation from the original sample as the validation data ,  and the remaining observations as the training data .
jacknifing is a re - sampling data transformation process used to estimate the precision of sampling statistics and is a resampling method
bootstrapping is a statistical method for estimating the sampling distribution of a statistic by sampling with replacement from the original data ,  most often with the purpose of deriving robust estimates of standard errors and confidence intervals of a population parameter like a mean ,  median ,  proportion ,  odds ratio ,  correlation coefficient or regression coefficient
a data transformation process in which the benjamini and hochberg method sequential p - value procedure  is applied with the aim of correcting false discovery rate
a pareto scaling is a data transformation that divides all measurements of a variable by the square root of the standard deviation of that variable .
molecular decomposition is the partition of a network into distinct subgraphs for the purpose of identifying functional clusters .
a k - means clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  which takes as input a collection of objects  ( represented as points in multidimensional space )  and which partitions them into a specified number k of clusters .
a hierarchical clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery objective ,  which takes as input data item and builds a hierarchy of clusters .
an average linkage hierarchical clustering is an agglomerative hierarchical clustering which generates successive clusters based on a distance measure ,  where the distance between two clusters is calculated as the average distance between objects from the first cluster and objects from the second cluster .
an agglomerative hierarchical clustering which generates successive clusters based on a distance measure ,  where the distance between two clusters is calculated as the maximum distance between objects from the first cluster and objects from the second cluster .
a single linkage hierarchical clustering is an agglomerative hierarchical clustering which generates successive clusters based on a distance measure ,  where the distance between two clusters is calculated as the minimum distance between objects from the first cluster and objects from the second cluster .
a data transformation in which the benjamini and yekutieli method is applied with the aim of correcting false discovery rate
a dimensionality reduction is data partitioning which transforms each input m - dimensional vector  ( x_1 ,  x_2 ,   . . . ,  x_m )  into an output n - dimensional vector  ( y_1 ,  y_2 ,   . . . ,  y_n )  ,  where n is smaller than m .
a principal components analysis dimensionality reduction is a dimensionality reduction achieved by applying principal components analysis and by keeping low - order principal components and excluding higher - order ones .
a probabilistic algorithm is one which involves an element of probability or randomness in the transformation of the data .
em is a probabilistic algorithm used to estimate the maximum likelihood of parameters from existing data where the model involves unobserved latent variables .
a network graph quality calculation in which an input data set of subgraph modules and their in - degree and out - degree qualities is used to calculate the average modularity of subgraphs within the network .
a dye swap merge is a replicate analysis which takes as input data from paired two - channel microarray assays where the sample labeled with one dye in the first assay is labeled with the other dye in the second assay and vice versa .
a moving average is a data transformation in which center calculations ,  usually mean calculations ,  are performed on values within a sliding window across the input data set .
a replicate analysis is a data transformation in which data from replicates are combined ,  e .g .
imputation is a means of filling in missing data values from a predictive distribution of the missing values .
a data transformation that performs more than one hypothesis test simultaneously ,  a closed - test procedure ,  that  controls the familywise error rate for all the k hypotheses at level  in the strong sense .
edge weighting is the substitution or transformation of edge length using numerical data .
a loess transformation is a data transformation that takes as input a collection of real number pairs  ( x ,  y )  and ,  after performing  ( one or more )  loess fittings ,  utilizes the resulting curves to transform each  ( x ,  y )  in the input into  ( x ,  y - f ( x )  )  where f ( x )  is one of the fitted curves .
a curve fitting is a data transformation that has objective curve fitting and that consists of finding a curve which matches a series of data points and possibly other constraints .
a family wise error rate correction method is a multiple testing procedure that controls the probability of at least one false positive .
a submatrix extraction is a projection whose input is a matrix and whose output is a matrix obtained by selecting certain rows and columns from the input .
a row submatrix extraction is a submatrix extraction where all the columns of the input matrix are retained and selection only occurs on the rows .
a column submatrix extraction is a submatrix extraction where all the rows of the input matrix are retained and selection only occurs on the columns .
a descriptive statistical calculation objective is a data transformation objective which concerns any calculation intended to describe a feature of a data set ,  for example ,  its center or its variability .
a mean calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation in which the mean is calculated by taking the sum of all of the observations in a data set divided by the total number of observations .
a data transformation that takes as input data that describes biological networks in terms of the node  ( a .k .a .
a sequence analysis objective is a data transformation objective which aims to analyse some ordered biological data for sequential patterns .
longitudinal analysis is a data transformation used to perform repeated observations of the same items over long periods of time .
a data transformation objective which has the data transformation aims to model time to event data  ( where events are e .g .
a spread calculation is a data transformation that has objective spread calculation .
a nonparametric  ( actuarial )  data transformation technique for estimating time - related events .
a multiple testing correction method is a hypothesis test performed simultaneously on m  >  1 hypotheses .
a data transformation objective of determining the concordance or agreement between human judges .
is a data transformation process in which the westfall and young method is applied with the aim of controlling for multiple testing
a polynomial transformation is a data transformation that is obtained through a polynomial ,  where a polynomial is a mathematical expression involving a sum of powers in one or more variables multiplied by coefficients  ( e .g .
a logarithmic transformation is a data transformation consisting in the application of the logarithm function with a given base a  ( where a > 0 and a is not equal to 1 )  to a  ( one dimensional )  positive real number input .
an exponential transformation is a data transformation consisting in the application of the exponential function with a given base a  ( where a > 0 and a is typically not equal to 1 )  to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
non negative matrix factorization is a data transformation in which factorises a matrix and which forces that all elements must be equal to or greater than zero .
soft independent modeling by class analogy  ( simca )  is a descriptive statistics method for supervised classification of data .
discriminant function analysis is a form of discriminant analysis used to determine which variables discriminate between two or more naturally occurring groups .
canonical variate analysis is a form of discriminant analysis that takes several continuous predictor variables and uses the entire set to predict several criterion variables ,  each of which is also continuous .
linear discriminant functional analysis  ( ldfa )  is a multivariate technique used in special applications where there are several intact groups  ( random assignment may be impossible )  and they have been measured on several independent measures .
regression analysis is a descriptive statistics technique that examines the relation of a dependent variable  ( response variable )  to specified independent variables  ( explanatory variables )  .
multiple linear regression is a regression method that models the relationship between a dependent variable y ,  independent variables xi ,  i = 1 ,   . . . ,  p ,  and a random term epsilon .
the principal component regression method is a regression analysis method that combines the principal component analysis  ( pca ) spectral decomposition with an inverse least squares  ( ils )  regression method to create a quantitative model for complex samples .
partial least squares regression is an extension of the multiple linear regression model  ( see ,  e .g . ,  multiple regression or general stepwise regression )  .
discriminant function analysis is used to determine which variables discriminate between two or more naturally occurring groups .
pls discriminant analysis  ( pls - da )  is a discriminant analysis performed in order to sharpen the separation between groups of observations ,  by hopefully rotating pca  ( principal components analysis )  components such that a maximum separation among classes is obtained ,  and to understand which variables carry the class separating information .
an eh transformation is a data transformation obtained by applying the function eh described in what follows to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
a b transformation is a data transformation obtained by applying the function b described in what follows to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
an s transformation is a data transformation obtained by applying the function s described in what follows to a  ( one dimensional )  real number input .
an planned process that creates images ,  diagrams or animations from the input data .
a similarity calculation is a data transformation that attaches to each pair of objects in the input a number that is meant to reflect how 'close' or 'similar' those objects are .
an euclidean distance calculation is a similarity calculation that attaches to each pair of real number vectors of the same dimension n the square root of the sum of the square differences between corresponding components .
a pearson correlation coefficient calculation is a similarity calculation which attaches to each pair of random variables x and y the ratio of their covariance by the product of their standard deviations .
a loess fitting is a curve fitting obtained by localized regression .
a mode calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation in which the mode is calculated which is the most common value in a data set .
a quantile calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation in which the kth quantile is the data value for which an approximate k fraction of the data is less than or equal to that value .
a median calculation is a  descriptive statistics calculation in which the midpoint of the data set  ( the 0 .5 quantile )  is calculated .
a variance calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation in which the variance is defined as the average squared distance of each observation in the data set to the mean of the data set .
a standard deviation calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation defined as the square root of the variance .
the interquartile range is a descriptive statistics calculation defined as the difference between the 0 .75 quantile and the 0 .25 quantile for a set of data .
a skewness calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation defined as a parameter that describes how much a distribution  ( or a data set )  varies from a bell - shaped curve .
a kurtosis calculation is a descriptive statistics calculation defined as a parameter that measures how large or small the tails of a distribution are relative to the mean .
a data transformation in which individual input data elements and values are merged together into a output set of data elements and values .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing objects and relationships between objects is transformed into an output representation of these objects as nodes and the relationships as edges of a network graph .
a network graph construction in which an input data set describing objects and quantitative relationships between objects is transformed into and output representation of these objects as nodes and the quantitative relationships as weighted edges of a network graph .
a network graph construction in which an input data set describing objects and directional relationships between objects is transformed into and output representation of these objects as nodes and the directional relationships as directed edges of a network graph .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing node objects and edge relationships between node objects is used to determine the output quality of one of the node objects in the network .
a node quality calculation in which an input data set describing object nodes and relationship edges between object nodes is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships of an individual object node .
a node quality calculation in which an input data set describing object nodes and quantitative relationship edges between object nodes is used to sum all of the quantitative relationships of an individual object node .
a node quality calculation in which an input data set describing object nodes and directional relationship edges between object nodes is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships pointing into an individual object node .
a node quality calculation in which an input data set describing object nodes and directional relationship edges between object nodes is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships pointing out of an individual object node .
a node quality calculation in which a path describing the shortest path needed to transverse through connected nodes and edges to arrive at a specific target node in the network .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing node objects and edge relationships between node objects is used to determine the output quality of one of the edge relationships in the network .
an edge quality calculation in which the input is a data sets of shortest paths between all pairs of node in the network and the output is the sum of all shortest paths that traverse the specific edge .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing node objects and edge relationships between node objects is used to determine the output quality of a subgraph partition of the network .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing subgraphs and relationship edges between subgraphs and other network objects is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships of an individual subgraph .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing subgraphs and quantitative relationship edges between subgraphs and other network objects is used to sum the quantitative relationships of an individual subgraph .
feature is a  ( parent_class )  that describes a characteristic ,  trait or quality of a data transformation
the log base is a feature of a logarithmic function which is defined in http: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / logarithm .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing subgraphs and directional relationship edges between subgraphs and other network objects is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships pointing into an individual subgraph .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing subgraphs and relationship edges between subgraphs and other network objects is used to enumerate the number of unique relationships pointing out of an individual subgraph .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set describing internal nodes ,  edges and node degrees is used to determine the average node degree within the subgraph .
a network subgraph quality calculation in which an input data set of subgraph in - degree and out - degree qualities is used to calculate the ratio of indegree to outdegree as a measure of modularity .
a network analysis in which an input data set describing node objects and edge relationships between node objects is used to determine the output quality of the network as a whole .
a unit - variance scaling is a data transformation that divides all measurements of a variable by the standard deviation of that variable .
an ma transformation is a data transformation which takes as input a collection of data points  ( g_1 ,  r_1 )  ,   ( g_2 ,  r_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( g_n ,  r_n )   with the r_i and g_i positive real numbers ,  and whose output is the collection of data points  ( a_1 ,  m_1 )  ,   ( a_2 ,  m_2 )  ,   . . . ,   ( a_n ,  m_n )  where ,  for each i ,  a_i= ( log ( g_i )  + log ( r_i )  )  / 2 and m_i=log ( r_i )  - log ( g_i )  .
the exponential base is a feature of an exponential function which is defined in http: /  / en .wikipedia .org / wiki / exponential_function .
the polynomial degree is a feature of a polynomial function defined as the highest power of the polynomial's terms ,  where the terms of a polynomial are the individual summands with the coefficients omitted .
the number of variables is a feature of any function  ( including polynomial functions )  with domain contained in an n - dimensional vector space and is defined as n ,  the dimension of such space .
an agglomerative hierarchical clustering is a hierarchical clustering which starts with separate clusters and then successively combines these clusters until there is only one cluster remaining .
a divisive hierarchical clustering is a hierarchical clustering which starts with a single cluster and then successively splits resulting clusters until only clusters of individual objects remain .
data partitioning is a data transformation with the objective of partitioning or separating input data into output subsets .
data vector reduction is a data transformation objective in which k m - dimensional input vectors are reduced to j m - dimensional output vectors ,  where j is smaller than k .
a generalized fwer correction method is a multiple testing procedure that controls the probability of at least k + 1 false positives ,  where k is a user - supplied integer .
a quantile number of false positives correction method is a mtp that controls for the pth quantile of the distribution of the number of false positives out of the total number of tests performed'
a tppfp correction method is a mtp that controls the probability that the proportion of false positives among all rejected hypotheses is no greater than a constant q ,  where q is between 0 and 1 .
the false discovery rate is a  data transformation used in multiple hypothesis testing to correct for multiple comparisons .
a proportion of expected false positives correction method is a multiple testing procedure that controls the ratio of the expected value of the numbers of false positives to the expected value of the numbers of rejected hypotheses .
a quantile proportion of false positives correction method is a multiple testing procedure that controls the pth quantile of the distribution of the proportion of false positives among the rejected hypothesis  ( false discovery rate )  .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
a normalization objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove systematic sources of variation to put the data on equal footing in order to create a common base for comparisons .
a correction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to correct for error ,  noise or other impairments to the input of the data transformation or derived from the data transformation itself
a normalization data transformation is a data transformation that has objective normalization .
an averaging data transformation is a data transformation that has objective averaging .
a partitioning data transformation is a data transformation that has objective partitioning .
a partitioning objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to generate a collection of disjoint non - empty subsets whose union equals a non - empty input set .
a background correction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove irrelevant contributions from the measured signal ,  e .g .
a curve fitting objective is a data transformation objective in which the aim is to find a curve which matches a series of data points and possibly other constraints .
a class discovery data transformation  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class discovery .
fisher's exact test is a data transformation used to determine if there are nonrandom associations between two fisher's exact test is a statistical significance test used in the analysis of contingency tables where sample sizes are small where the significance of the deviation from a null hypothesis can be calculated exactly ,  rather than relying on an approximation that becomes exact in the limit as the sample size grows to infinity ,  as with many statistical tests .
a center calculation objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to calculate the center of an input data set .
a class discovery objective  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to organize input data   ( typically vectors of attributes )  into classes ,  where the number of classes and their specifications are not known a priori .
a class prediction objective  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to create a predictor from training data through a machine learning technique .
is a data transformation objective whereby the aim is to the calculate the spread of a dataset ,  spread is a descriptive statistic which describes the variability of values in a data set
a center calculation data transformation is a data transformation that has objective of center calculation .
a data vector reduction is a data transformation that has objective data vector reduction and that consists of reducing the input vectors k to a smaller number of output vectors j ,  where j < k .
is a data transformation objective where all ,  or some of a data set is adjusted by some data transformation according to some scale ,  for example a user defined minimum or maximum
a descriptive statistical calculation data transformation is a data transformation that has objective descriptive statistical calculation and which concerns any calculation intended to describe a feature of a data set ,  for example ,  its center or its variability .
a scaling data transformation is a data transformation that has objective scaling .
an error correction objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to remove  ( correct for )  erroneous contributions arising from the input data ,  or the transformation itself .
a sequence analysis data transformation is a data transformation that has objective sequence analysis and has the aim of analysing ordered biological data for sequential patterns .
a cross validation objective is a data transformation objective in which the aim is to partition a sample of data into subsets such that the analysis is initially performed on a single subset ,  while the other subset ( s )  are retained for subsequent use in confirming and validating the initial analysis .
a merging objective is a data transformation objective in which the data transformation has the aim of performing a union of two or more sets .
a data visualization which has input of a clustered data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
adata visualization which has input of a gene list and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a data visualization which has input of a classified data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a data visualization which has input of a background corrected data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
a data transformation which has the objective of performing survival analysis .
proportional hazards model is a data transformation model to estimate the effects of different covariates influencing the times - to - failure of a system .
a data transformation objective in which correlation is obtained  ( often measured as a correlation coefficient ,   )  which indicates the strength and direction of a relationship between two random variables .
the chi - square test is a data transformation with the objective of statistical hypothesis testing ,  in which the sampling distribution of the test statistic is a chi - square distribution when the null hypothesis is true ,  or any in which this is asymptotically true ,  meaning that the sampling distribution  ( if the null hypothesis is true )  can be made to approximate a chi - square distribution as closely as desired by making the sample size large enough .
anova or analysis of variance is a data transformation in which a statistical test of whether the means of several groups are all equal .
any design in which the decision as to whether to enroll the next patient ,  pair of patients ,  or block of patients is determined by whether the cumulative treatment difference for all previous patients is within specified limits .
observation design is a study design in which subjects are monitored in the absence of any active intervention by experimentalists .
a pool of specimens is a mixture of a population of samples which have been gathered from one or more sample populations ,  obtained by the physical process of mixing individual specimens ,  e .g .
a material entity  that is made up of at least 2 scattered molecular aggregates ,  one playing the role of solvent and the other one playing the role of solute .
solvent role is a role which inheres in a molecular entity capable of ensuring the dissolution of another chemical entity and realized by the process of solvation
solute role is a role played by a chemical entity which is dissolved by another chemical entity  ( the solvent )  when creating a solution
is a polymer which has lost secondary or tertiary structure
decapitated organism is an organism which has had it's head removed
an information content entity which results from a validation process aimed at confirming a claim ,  a finding or a predicted information entity about a material entity or a process by experimental means .
a information content entity that has undergone a digital curation performed by a curator for accuracy checks and compliance with curation requirements .
a role that borne by an organism and realized by some group randomization process
an organism that is the output of a genetic transformation process
a data item that was generated on the basis of a calculation or logical reasoning
a data item which has been processed by a mean centering data transformation where each output value is produced by subtracting the mean from the inout value
a material entity that has been going through a process of being put into solution
a material separation in which a desired component of an input material is separated from the remainder
filtration is a process which separates components suspended in a fluid based on granularity properties relying on a filter device
centrifugation is a process separating molecules by size or density using centrifugal forces generated by a spinning rotor .
staining is a process which results in the addition a class - specific  ( dna ,  proteins ,  lipids ,  carbohydrates )  dye to a substrate to qualify or quantify the presence of a specific compound .
washing is a process by which a material entity acting as  contaminant  ( e .g .
irradiation is a process by which a material entity is exposed to radiative energy ,  which could be ionizing radiation  ( such as gamma rays or x - rays )   or not such as uv light or microwaves
polymerization is process by which molecular entity of small mass are aggregated in motifs over the course of a chemical reaction catalyzed by enzymes or other molecular entities acting as catalyst .
trypsination is a protease cleavage which uses enzyme trypsin to act on proteins present in an input material entity
an enzymatic ligation is a planned process in which molecules  are joined by covalent bonds through the action of an material entity with a ligase activity
a maintenance process by which material entities that are not actively metabolizing are placed in well identified location and possibly under controlled environment in ad - hoc devices / structures in order to preserve and protect them from decay / alteration and maintain availability
cell lysis is a process by which cell membrane integrity of live cells  is compromised and leads to cell death .
electrocution is process by which electric current is applied to a material with quality alive and result the termination of life process .
cervical dislocation is a process by which a vertebrate organism has its life terminated by rupturing spinal cord between cervical vertebrae induced by excessive mechanical torsion
asphyxiation is a process by which oxygen supplies are restricted  ( by mechanical ,  e .g obstructing airways or chemical means ,  e .g .
intentional overdosing is a process by which an excess dose of a chemical compound is given with the intent of causing death
decapitation is a process by which the head of a living organism is physically removed from the body ,  usually resulting in rapid death  ( in the case of rhodnius prolixus ,  it might take a bit longer . . ) 
a group assignment which relies on chance to assign materials to a group of materials in order to avoid bias in experimental set up .
immbolization is a process by which material entity become  ( possibly covalently but not necessarily )  attached to the surface of another material entity used a substratum .
a planned process by which totally or partially complementary ,  single - stranded nucleic acids are  combined into a single molecule called heteroduplex or homoduplex to an extent depending on the amount of complementarity .
the process of extracting one material from another by washing with a solvent to remove adsorbed material from an adsorbent  ( as in washing of loaded ion - exchange resins to remove captured ions ) 
a material separation process by which repetitive genomic dna is removed during the construction of cdna library .
a process by which an  event or an entity is described before it actually happens or is being discovered and identified .
a planned process with objective to check that the accuracy or the quality of a claim or prediction  satisfies some criteria and which is assessed by comparing with independent results
a process in which a significant increase in the electrical conductivity and permeability of the cell plasma membrane caused by an externally applied electrical field .
digital curation is the process of establishing and developing long term repositories of digital assets for current and future reference by researchers ,  scientists ,  and historians ,  and scholars generally .
an analyser is a flow_cytometer that is used to measure properties of particles  ( whole cells ,  nuclei ,  chromosomes ,  diatoms ,  plankton ,  bacteria ,  viruses )  by moving these particles through a detection chamber .
a cyan is a flow_cytometer_analyser manufactured by dako cytomation .
aparatus in the fluidic subsystem where the sheath and sample meet .
a flow_cytometer is an instrument for counting ,  examining and sorting microscopic particles in suspension .
a light source is an optical subsystem that provides light for use in a distant area using a delivery system  ( e .g . ,  fiber optics )  .
an obscuration bar is a an optical subsystem which is a strip of metal or other material that serves to block out direct light from the illuminating beam .
an optical filter is an optical subsystem that selectively transmits light having certain properties  ( often ,  a particular range of wavelengths ,  that is ,  range of colours of light )  ,  while blocking the remainder .
a photodetector is a device used to detect and measure the intensity of radiant energy through photoelectric action .
a flow_cytometer_sorter is a flow_cytometer that analyzes and separates or sorts particles passing through  ( based on properties measured during analysis )  to collect cells of interest .
a dna sequencer is an instrument that determines the order of deoxynucleotides in deoxyribonucleic acid sequences .
an processed material which acquires images of fluorescence  ( induced with lasers )  from labeled molecules on the surface of the microarray chip
a device which deposits biological material onto a substrate in a defined pattern .
a device with a rapidly rotating container that applies centrifugal force to its contents
a computer is an instrument which manipulates  ( stores ,  retrieves ,  and processes )  data according to a list of instructions .
a device which is used to maintain constant contact of a liquid on an array .
a device which is used to maintain the temperature of one or more hybridization_chamber ( s )  at a defined ,  constant temperature .
a device that converts a variable electrical current to mechanical vibration of a metallic probe .
an instrument that is capable of repeatedly altering and maintaining specific temperatures for defined periods of time .
a device that is used to wash affymetrix - type arrays .
a temperature_control_bath is a device that has the function to regulate the temperature of a material ,  the function to contain fluid and the function to vary and maintain the temperature of the contained fluid .
a cytometer is an instrument for counting and measuring cells .
a power supply is an device or part of a device that permits the required application of a defined electrical charge to an instrument .
a processed material that is made to be used in an analyte assay .
a dna - microarray is a microarray that is used as a physical 2d immobilisation matrix for dna sequences .
a protein - microarray is a microarray ,  ususlly a piece of glass ,  on which different molecules of protein have been affixed at separate locations in an ordered manner .
a droplet sorter is part_of a flow cytometer sorter that converts the carrier fluid stream into individual droplets ,  and these droplets are directed into separate locations for recovery  ( enriching the original sample for particles of interest based on qualities determined by gating )  or disposal .
a microtome is a mechanical instrument used to cut biological specimens into very thin segments for further treatment  ( e .g .
a processed material which has the function to define a bounded habitat which is amenable to keeping animals .
a plan specification comprised of protocols  ( which may specify how and what kinds of data will be gathered )  that are executed as part of an investigation and is realized during a study design execution .
plan for the precise procedure to be followed in a clinical trial ,  including planned and actual timing of events ,  choice of control group ,  method of allocating treatments ,  blinding methods ;  assigns a subject to pass through one or more epochs in the course of a trial .
a study design which use the same individuals and exposure them to a set of conditions .
a repeated measure design which ensures that experimental units receive ,  in sequence ,  the treatment  ( or the control )  ,  and then ,  after a specified time interval  ( aka *wash - out periods* )  ,  switch to the control  ( or treatment )  .
n - of - 1 design is a cross - over design in which the same patient is repeatedly randomised to receive either the experimental treatment or its control  ( senn ,  1993 )  .
a matched pair design is a study design which use groups of individuals associated  ( hence matched )  to each other based on a set of criteria ,  one member going to one treatment ,  the other member receiving the other treatment .
a parallel group design or independent measure design is a study design which uses unique experimental unit each experimental group ,  in other word no two individuals are shared between experimental groups ,  hence also known as parallel group design .
a randomized complete block design is_a study design which assigns randomly treatments to block .
balanced incomplete block design is a kind of factorial design where all treatment pairs occur together within a block an equal number ??
a loop experiment design is where labeled extracts are compared in consecutive pairs .
a reference experiment design type is where all samples are compared to a common reference .
latin square design is_a study design which allows in its simpler form controlling 2 levels of nuisance variables  ( also known as blocking variables )  .he 2 nuisance factors are divided into a tabular grid with the property that each row and each column receive each treatment exactly once .
greco - latin square design is a study design which relates to latin square design
prs to do
factorial design is_a study design which is used to evaluate two or more factors simultaneously .
a factorial design which has 2 experimental factors  ( aka independent variables )  and 2 factor levels per experimental factors
a fractional factorial design is_a study design in which only an adequately chosen fraction of the treatment combinations required for the complete factorial experiment is selected to be run
an experiment design type where the label orientations are reversed .
a replicate experimental design type is where a series of replicates are performed to evaluate reproducibility or as a pilot study to determine the appropriate number of replicates for a subsequent experiments .
a study design that investigates variance and error estimates in the experimental system ,  and is where the same extract is compared .
groups of assays that are related as part of a time series .
is process in which a material substance is added to a cell culture
determination of the grade  ( severity / stage )  of a tumor sample ,  used in cancer biology to describe abnormalities / qualities of tumor cells or tissues .
a process with the objective to obtain a material entity that was part of an organism for potential future use in an investigation
a protocol application in which an organism is intentionally put to death
a process by which a substance is intentionally given to an organism
the planned process of gaining possession of a continuant
a planned process in which an input material is exposed to a defined set of conditions in a controlled environment .
a protocol application in which an object is left in an environment for some period of time ,  until some qualities of interest are in equilibrium with that environment .
environmental_material_collection is an acquisition where an object is taken from an environment and put into a storage container .
an acquisition in which possession of information is gained .
a material processing in which components of an input material become segregated in space
group assignment is a process which has an organism as specified input and during which a role is assigned
physical combination of several instances of like material
an assay that detects the presence or a quality of a molecular label which is a proxy for the detection of the molecular target to which the label is attached
a material processing in which the input substance is partitioned into a number of portions that are similar in composition .
the addition of a reagent labeling the entire input biomaterial enabling future detection of the output biomaterial
the visual examination of cells or tissue  ( or images of them )  with an assessment regarding a quality of the cells or tissue .
a protocol application to preserve defined  qualities of cells or tissues  ( sample )  which may otherwise change over time
the use physical means to remove a portion of a substance from the rest
a protocol application to digest the fraction of input material that is susceptible to that enzyme
a protocol application in which cells are kept alive in a defined environment outside of an organism .
a material transformation to break the membranes of cells ,  releasing the cells contents ;  input= > cells ;  output= > cell_lysate
a protocol with the objective to transcribe single - stranded rna into complementary dna  ( cdna ) 
a protocol which results in the separation of supernatant material from a cell culture
a protocol application to induce a specific disease in an organism
a protocol application to permeabilize cell membranes ,  allowing molecules to more easily pass through the membrane than was possible prior to the protocol application
a protocol application to cause a material to precipitate  ( becoming a solid )  out of solution .
a process through which a new type of cell culture or cell line is created ,  either through the isolation and culture of one or more cells from a fresh source ,  or the deliberate experimental modification of an existing cell culture  ( e .g passaging a primary culture to become a secondary culture or line ,  or the immortalization or stable genetic modification of an existing culture or line )  .
the act of taking part of a homogeneous cell culture and creating one or more additional separate cultures of similar qualities .
a material processing technique intended to add a molecular label to some input material entity ,  to allow detection of the molecular target of this label in a detection of molecular label assay
a planned process of adding methyl groups to polymers
the construction of a biomaterial from simpler biomaterials
a protocol application to create an output material with an increased density of a material of interest that is part of the input material by separating other parts of the input material
the introduction .alteration or integration of genetic material into a cell or organism
a protocol application to separate cells and / or cellular secretions from an anatomical space by the introduction and removal of fluid
a process that resulting in information on the 3 - dimensional qualities of a biomaterial
the use of a biomaterial's preferential affinity for either the mobile phase or the stationary phase to separate it from other materials of differing affinity
the use of a chemical or biochemical means to infer the sequence of a biomaterial
the process of creating a copy of some biological entity in cell culture
dna polymerase amplification is an enzymatic amplification which uses dna polymerase enzyme to make copies of a dna contained in biomaterial used as input
a protocol application to digest the fraction of input material that is susceptible to that enzyme
a protocol application that uses different concentrations of materials in a defined order to create a gradient to facilitate the separation of an input material into its components with specific qualities
a protocol application that uses diffusion through a semi - permeable membrane to separate an input material into two fractions of different composition
protease cleavage is an enzymatic cleavage which relies on enzyme with protease activity to act on proteins and produce polypeptides  ( protein fragments )  .
the use of enzymes to increase the number of molecules of a biomaterial
a genetic transformation which relies on the use of lysogenic infection to transfer dna sequences into an organism
a transfection which relies on the use of physical ,  electrical and chemical phenomena to introduce dna into a cell
a planned process with the objective to insert genetic material into a cloning vector for future replication of the inserted material
a labeling in which the labeling reagent used  has a specificity to bind only certain components of the input material
a rna extraction is a nucleic acid extraction where the desired output material is rna
a material separation to recover the nucleic acid fraction of an input material
a phage display library is a collection of materials in which a mixture of genes or gene fragments is expressed and can be individually selected and amplified .
a cell lysate is a material entity which is output of a cell lysis process
a transgenic organism is material entity which derives from an organism which has been modified to express a gene not normally part of it
a whole organism preparation resulting from a histological preparation known as whole mount preparation where the whole specimen is mounted or spread on the microscope  ( glass )  slide
a material entity bearing the epitope role
a process in which an infectious agent comes into physical contact with a host organism .
is an administration of an infectious agent to a host organism
is an occurrence of a disease caused by an infection
the role borne by a material entity that is realized when it is recognized by the immune system and results in the occurrence of an allergic disease .
an allergic reaction is an pathologic immune response by an organism to a non - self entity that is normally harmless ( the allergen ) 
is the process in which an adaptive immune receptor binds to a material entity  ( realizing its disposition )  .
process of administering an object playing the role of immunogen to a living organism
a function realized as an immune response ,  which inheres in a t cell ,  b cell or antibody which derives from or is produced by a cell with prior antigen experience .
the detrimental process in which an infectious agent colonizes or replicates in a host environment
is a receptor produced by cells of the adaptive immune system with the purpose of binding epitopes .
a material entity bearing the immunogen role
is a process in which an infectious agent is in direct contact with a potential host organism in its habitat .
an organism in which an immune response process occurs .
a cell line derived from human embryonic kidney cells .
a cell line derived from human b cells .
is the administration of an infectious agent to a cell culture with the objective to have the agent colonize and replicate in culture
a cell line derived from mouse  ( c57bl / 6n )  lymphoma cells .
a cell line derived from human cervical cancer cells .
a cell line derived from mouse dendritic cells .
is a material entity that has the antigen role
a cell line derived from human t cells .
the jy cell line is an epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  - immortalised b cell lymphoblastoid line .
an assay in which a positive measurement indicates tcr recognition of an epitope:mhc context .
a cell line derived from a mouse lymphoma ,  specifically a rauscher virus - induced tumor .this cell ine is antigen processing - defective and expresses a very low level of mhc molecules on its surface .
a human t - b lymphoblastoid hybrid cell line
is a disease caused by an infectious agent
a cell specimen comprised of a mixed population of cells obtained by processing whole lymph node into individual cells ,  typically performed using a sieve .
a mixed cell population that is characterized by its ability to bind to tissue culture flasks or plates .
a mixed cell population obtained by processing whole blood .
is the disposition borne by a material entity that is realized in a process of being bound by a adaptive immune receptor .
the process of removing an organ from its source organism
a t cell population characterized by expressing the cd3 molecule on its surface .
a t cell population characterized by not expressing the cd3 molecule on its surface .
is a disease in which an abnormally strong inflammatory immune response is triggered against non - self entities ,  and the immune response has no protective effect
a t cell population characterized by not expressing the cd4 molecule on its surface .
a t cell population characterized by not expressing the cd8 molecule on its surface .
a t cell population characterized by not expressing the cd4 nor the cd8 molecule on its surface .
a disease characterized by abnormal and uncontrolled cell division
is a disease characterized by an immune response of an organism against parts of itself
placeholder to be imported from disease ontology
a process of an mhc molecule binding to an entity playing the role of epitope to create an mhc:epitope complex which is then bound by a tcr molecule .
any entity capable of eliciting an immune response when introduced to components of the immune system
is a role borne by an organism .
the function inhering in a t cell that is realized in an immune response that results from the t cell receptor binding to the mhc:epitope complex .
a function inhering in a cell  that expresses mhc molecules which is realized in the process of antigen processing and presentation of antigen derived parts by mhc molecules on the cell surface .
the role played by an mhc molecule by binding a material entity playing the role of epitope when that epitope / mhc molecule pair are recognized  ( bound )  by a tcr molecule on the surface of a cell playing the role of effector cell .
a role which inheres in an organism or part thereof from which any part including cell ,  organ or tissue is removed with the intention that the donated part will be placed into another organism and / or cultured in vitro .
is a role borne by an agent ,  and realized when in contact with or inside another organism in which it is capable of replicating and causing disease
the process of an epitope that is part of or derived from an immunogen coming into contact with adaptive immune cells resulting in these cells acquiring immune effector functions specific for the epitope .
a material separation where blood is taken from an organism .
a cell line derived from mouse fibroblasts .
a cell culture including cells that have an antigen presentation function
a cell culture including cells that have an effector t cell function
a material that is added to another one in a material combination process
a material entity into which another is being added in a material combinatino process
is a process in which an infectious agent comes close enough to a potential host organism in its habitat that a contact can result
a cell specimen comprised of a mixed cell population obtained by processing whole spleen into individual cells ,  typically performed using a sieve or blender .
any molecule recognized by the adaptive immune receptors?
abnormal ,  harmful processes caused by or associated with a disease
is an assay that measures the binding of an epitope to an adaptive immune receptor or a immune response process resulting from such a binding event
a transmembrane glycoprotein that serves as a co - receptor for the t cell receptor .
a series of statements representing health - relevant qualities of a patient and of a patient's family .
a  ( combination of )  quality ( ies )  of an organism determined by the interaction of its genetic make - up and environment that differentiates specific instances of a species from other instances of the same species .
the totality of all processes through which a given disease instance is realized .
a processual entity whose completion is hypothesized  ( by a healthcare provider )  to alleviate the signs and symptoms associated with a disorder
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of how long the bearer has existed .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a physical quality of the thermal energy of a system .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population that only produces gametes that can be fertilised by male gametes .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population whose sex organs contain only male gametes .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a concentration which relatively low .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being harmed or injured or spoiled ,  such that its functionality is impaired .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the side relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the abdomen of an organism relative to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the back or upper surface of an organism relative to another entity .
a physical object quality which inheres in a single - bearer .
a physical entity quality which exists in relation towards some other entity .
a biological sex quality inhering in a population of multiple sexes .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's homogeneity of a biomaterial .
a biological sex quality inhering in an organism or a population with both male and female sexual organs in one individual .
a s . cerevisiae mating type cells that secrete a pheromone that in alpha haploids stimulates processes that lead to mating .
a s . cerevisiae mating type cells that secrete a pheromone that stimulates a haploids .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - mc and mat1 - mi on the mat1 locus .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - pc and mat1 - pi on the mat1 locus .
a bacterial mating type indicating the presence of f plasmid in a bacterial cell .
a bacterial mating type indicating the absence of f plasmid in a bacterial cell .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a single set of homologous chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing more than two homologous sets of chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a non - integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  due to extra or missing chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two copies  ( homologs )  of each chromosome ,  usually one from the mother and one from the father .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's condition before death .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
a quality of related physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's pertaining to or involving or having the nature of space in relation to another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located toward the front of an organism relative to another entity .
a radiation quality inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting or being caused by radioactivity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on left side of from the a another entity .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on right side of a another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being kept below its freezing point .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with a core domain composition consisting of an extracellular n - terminal domain that adopts an immunoglobulin fold ,  a transmembrane domain ,  and an intracellular c - terminal domain with a single copy of the immunoreceptor tyrosine - based activation motif  ( pf02189 )   ( itam )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the escherichia coli k - 12 liga gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a reagent role inhering in a molecular entity intended to associate with some molecular target to serve as a proxy for the presence ,  abundance ,  or location of this target in a detection of molecular label assay .
a molecular reagent intended to associate with some molecular target to serve as a proxy for the presence ,  abundance ,  or location of this target in a detection of molecular label assay
a sequence_feature with an extent greater than zero .
small ,  ~22 - nt ,  rna molecule that is the endogenous transcript of a mirna gene .
a quality of a nucleotide polymer that has no terminal nucleotide residues .
oval or bean shaped bodies  ( 1  -  30 mm in diameter )  located along the lymphatic system .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
circulating body substance which consists of blood plasma and hemoglobin - carrying red blood cells .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
connective tissue composed of adipocytes .
excretion in liquid state processed by the kidney .
striated muscle tissue under control of the somatic nervous system .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
subcortical nucleus of telecephalic origin consisting of an elongated gray mass lying lateral to and bordering the lateral ventricle .
subcortical nucleus of telencephalic  ,  which together with the caudate nucleus ,  forms the striatum .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
organ found in virtually all vertebrate animals with important roles in regard to red blood cells and the immune system .
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the left side of a brain .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the right side of a brain .
a mucosa that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
a unit which is a standard measure of the average kinetic energy of the particles in a sample of matter .
a unit which is a standardised quantity of an element or compound with uniform composition .
a unit which represents a standard measurement of how much of a given substance there is mixed with another substance .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of space occupied by any substance ,  whether solid ,  liquid ,  or gas .
a unit which is a standard measure of the number of repetitive actions in a particular time .
a unit which is a standard measure of the force applied to a given area .
a unit which is a standard measure of the volume of fluid which passes through a given surface per unit time  .
a unit which represents a standard measurement occurrence of a process per unit time .
a vaccine is a processed material with the function that when administered ,  it prevents or ameliorates a disorder in a target organism by inducing or modifying adaptive immune responses specific to the antigens in the vaccine .
a process of administering substance in vivo that involves in adding a vaccine into a host  ( e .g . ,  human )  in vivo with the intent to invoke a protective or therapeutic adaptive immune response .
