a rare condition characterized by the complete absence of the penis .
document or chart that shows days ,  weeks ,  and months of a year .
a state of physical ,  emotional ,  mental and social well - being in relation to sexuality .
a civilization of ancient northeastern africa ,  concentrated along the lower reaches of the nile river in the area of egypt .
a civilization extant from about 1200 bc .
ability to connect to the internet and access services available there .
connectivity facilitated by computer - based communications among persons with family ,  work ,  or other common interests .
a reference book containing a list of words related to medicine - usually in alphabetic order - giving information about form ,  pronunciation ,  etymology ,  grammar ,  and meaning .
process of increasing the capacity of individuals or groups to make choices and to transform those choices into desired actions as deigned by the individuals or groups .
a group of inherited conditions of the adrenal glands ,  caused by enzyme defects in the synthesis of cortisol  ( hydrocortisone )  and / or aldosterone leading to accumulation of precursors for androgens .
a vasodilator that is administered by inhalation .
any agent capable of having a stimulating effect on the central nervous system .
anxiety due to fantasized injuries to or loss of the genitals .
a geographical area of the united states with no definite boundaries but comprising northeastern alabama ,  northwestern georgia ,  northwestern south carolina ,  western north carolina ,  eastern kentucky ,  eastern tennessee ,  western virginia ,  west virginia ,  western maryland ,  southwestern pennsylvania ,  southern ohio ,  and southern new york .
a diverse range of human activities in creating visual ,  auditory or performing artifacts  ( artworks )  ,  expressing the author's imaginative ,  conceptual ideas ,  or technical skill ,  intended to be appreciated for their beauty or emotional power .
knowing that something exists ,  or having knowledge or experience of a particular thing ;  having special interest in or experience of something and so being well informed of what is happening in that subject at the present time .
an infection caused by a bacterium .
the observable response an animal makes to any situation .
the mass or quantity of heaviness of an individual at birth .
the distance from the sole to the crown of the head with body standing on a flat surface and fully extended .
the mass or quantity of heaviness of an individual .
state bounded on the east by nevada and arizona ,  on the south by mexico and the pacific ocean on the south and west ,  and on the north by oregon .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms .
a large or important municipality of a country ,  usually a major metropolitan center .
the sexual union of a male and a female ,  a term used for human only .
a contraceptive method whereby coitus is purposely interrupted in order to prevent ejaculation of semen into the vagina .
those factors ,  such as language or sociocultural relationships ,  which interfere in the meaningful interpretation and transmission of ideas between individuals or groups .
a system containing any combination of computers ,  computer terminals ,  printers ,  audio or visual display devices ,  or telephones interconnected by telecommunications equipment or cables: used to transmit or receive information .
a clash of interest .the basis of conflict may vary but ,  it is always a part of society .
an act which constitutes the termination of a given instinctive behavior pattern or sequence .
the prevention of conception or impregnation by the use of devices or drugs or surgery .
the giving of advice and assistance to individuals with educational or personal problems .
a superfamily of hundreds of closely related hemeproteins found throughout the phylogenetic spectrum ,  from animals ,  plants ,  fungi ,  to bacteria .
created as a republic in 1918 by czechs and slovaks from territories formerly part of the austro - hungarian empire .
proteins which bind to dna .
a state of internal activity of an organism that is a necessary condition before a given stimulus will elicit a class of responses ;  e .g . ,  a certain level of hunger  ( drive )  must be present before food will elicit an eating response .
the use of drugs to treat a disease or its symptoms ;  or to aid in alleviating any of other various problems ,  ,  issues ,  or conditions .
education and training outside that for the professions .
a country in north africa that includes the sinai peninsula ,  a land bridge to asia .
one of the three major groups of endogenous opioid peptides .
biological molecules that possess catalytic activity .
a branch of philosophy that deals with the nature of art ,  beauty and taste .
state bounded on east by the atlantic ocean ,  on the south by the gulf of mexico ,  on the west by alabama and on the north by alabama and georgia .
the period of the menstrual cycle representing follicular growth ,  increase in ovarian estrogen  ( estrogens )  production ,  and epithelial proliferation of the endometrium .
a person's sense of self as a member of a particular gender .
an educational process that provides information and advice to individuals or families about a genetic condition that may affect them .
the former german democratic republic which was reunified with the former federal republic of germany in 1990 .
the former federal republic of germany which was reunified with the former german democratic republic in 1990 .
any of various conditions which feature streak gonads ,  dysgenetic testes ,  or dysgenetic ovaries .
a type of gonadal dysgenesis resulting from any of various chromosomal mosaicisms .
hormones secreted by the adenohypophysis  ( pituitary gland ,  anterior )  that stimulate gonadal functions in both males and females .
the geographic area of the great lakes in general and when the specific state or states are not indicated .
medical problems that affect a person's growth or otherwise present growth - related symptoms .
education that increases the awareness and favorably influences the attitudes and knowledge relating to the improvement of health on a personal or community basis .
the flow of blood from a ruptured blood vessel .
excess blood loss from uterine bleeding associated with obstetric labor or childbirth .
record and study of past events .
widely distributed enzymes that carry out oxidation - reduction reactions in which one atom of the oxygen molecule is incorporated into the organic substrate ;  the other oxygen atom is reduced and combined with hydrogen ions to form water .
an abnormal increase in the number of cells in an organ or a tissue with consequent enlargement .
abnormal enlargement of a body part or organ .
a congenital abnormality in which the external urethral orifice is on the underside of the penis .
a child between 1 and 23 months of age .
intramuscular injection is a route of drug administration via injection into muscle tissue .
forceful administration under the skin of liquid medication ,  nutrient ,  or other fluid through a hollow needle piercing the skin .
the ability to learn and to deal with new situations and to deal effectively with tasks involving abstractions .
the set of symptoms that result from two or more x chromosomes in males .
relatively permanent change in behavior that is the result of past experience or practice .
the science of language ,  including phonetics ,  phonology ,  morphology ,  syntax ,  semantics ,  pragmatics ,  and historical linguistics .
writings having excellence of form or expression and expressing ideas of permanent or universal interest .
the period in the menstrual that follows ovulation ,  characterized by the development of corpus luteum ,  increase in progesterone production by the ovary and secretion by the glandular epithelium of the endometrium .
state bounded on the north by new hampshire and vermont ,  on the east by the atlantic ocean ,  on the south by connecticut and rhode island ,  and on the west by new york .
the premature cessation of menses when the last menstrual period occurs in a woman under the age of 40 .
the periodic shedding of the endometrium and associated menstrual bleeding in the menstrual cycle of humans and primates .
the overall state of an individual's psychologic constitution .
organized services to provide mental health care .
the branch of philosophy that examines the fundamental nature of reality ,  including the relationship between mind and matter ,  between substance and attribute ,  and between potentiality and actuality .
a geographical area of the united states comprising the district of columbia ,  delaware ,  maryland ,  new jersey ,  new york ,  and pennsylvania .
the region of southwest asia and northeastern africa usually considered as extending from libya on the west to afghanistan on the east .
the reason for people's actions ,  willingness and goals .
peptides released by neurons as intercellular messengers .
the geographic area of new england in general and when the specific state or states are not indicated .
state bounded on the north by lake ontario and canada ,  on the east by vermont ,  massachusetts ,  and connecticut ,  on the south by the atlantic ocean ,  new jersey ,  and pennsylvania ,  and on the west by pennsylvania ,  lake erie ,  and canada .
city located at the mouth of the hudson river ,  in new york state .
transmission of emotions ,  ideas ,  and attitudes between individuals in ways other than the spoken language .
the class of all enzymes catalyzing oxidoreduction reactions .
oxidases that specifically introduce dioxygen - derived oxygen atoms into a variety of organic molecules .
the study of general and fundamental questions about existence ,  knowledge ,  values ,  reason ,  mind ,  and language .
the science or study of speech sounds and their production ,  transmission ,  and reception ,  and their analysis ,  classification ,  and transcription .
act of eliciting a response from a person or organism through physical contact .
the regular and simultaneous occurrence in a single interbreeding population of two or more discontinuous genotypes .
the inability to meet basic human needs ,  such as food ,  shelter ,  and avoidance of disease .
outcome of the process of increasing the capacity of individuals or groups to make choices and to transform those choices into desired actions as deigned by the individuals or groups .
performance of an act one or more times ,  with a view to its fixation or improvement ;  any performance of an act or behavior that leads to learning .
services designed for health promotion .
methods to avoid occurrence of disease either through eliminating disease agents or increasing resistance to disease .
a person who is deprived of liberty against their will .
infections with unicellular organisms formerly members of the subkingdom protozoa .
a discipline concerned with relations between messages and the characteristics of individuals who select and interpret them ;  it deals directly with the processes of encoding  ( phonetics )  and decoding  ( psychoacoustics )  as they relate states of messages to states of communicators .
a set of beliefs concerning the nature ,  cause ,  and purpose of the universe ,  especially when considered as the creation of a superhuman agency .
a monarchy located in north asia bordering the arctic ocean ,  extending from europe  ( the portion west of the urals )  to the north pacific ocean .
a city in northern california .
the meaning of a string in some language ;  of or relating to the study of meaning and changes of meaning .
advice and support given to individuals to help them understand and resolve their sexual adjustment problems .
the process in developing sex -  or gender - specific tissue ,  organ ,  or function after sex determination processes have set the sex of the gonads .
education which increases the knowledge of the functional ,  structural ,  and behavioral aspects of human sexual interaction .
organic siloxanes which are polymerized to the oily stage .
behavioral or attitudinal compliance with recognized social patterns or standards .
a personality trait rendering the individual acceptable in social or interpersonal relations .
social and economic factors that characterize the individual or group within the social structure .
state bounded on the north by north carolina ,  on the east and south by the atlantic ocean ,  and on the west by georgia .
cytochrome p - 450 monooxygenases  ( mixed function oxygenases )  that are important in steroid biosynthesis and metabolism .
a microsomal cytochrome p450 enzyme that catalyzes the 17 - alpha - hydroxylation of progesterone or pregnenolone and subsequent cleavage of the residual two carbons at c17 in the presence of molecular oxygen and nadph - ferrihemoprotein reductase .
the formation of a fetus while another fetus is already present in the uterus .
an intersex condition that results in the partial or complete inability of the cell to respond to androgens .
an oxidoreductase that catalyzes the conversion of 3 - oxo - δ4 steroids into their corresponding 5α form .
mental activity that is not predominantly perceptual by which one apprehends some aspect of an object or situation based on past learning and experience .
the process by which a tissue or aggregate of cells is kept alive outside of the organism from which it was derived  ( i .e . ,  kept from decay by means of a chemical agent ,  cooling ,  or a fluid substitute that mimics the natural state within the organism )  .
a gonadal dysgenesis syndrome characterized by the absence of a part or all of one of the sex chromosomes .
a country in north america ,  between canada and mexico ,  bordering both the north atlantic ocean and the north pacific ocean .
a country located from the baltic and black seas to the pacific ocean and ,  for a time including 15 soviet socialist republics .
bleeding from blood vessels in the uterus ,  sometimes manifested as vaginal bleeding .
includes both producing and responding to words ,  either written or spoken .
created as the kingdom of serbs ,  croats ,  and slovenes in 1918 .
an amphetamine derivative that inhibits uptake of catecholamine neurotransmitters .
the geographic area of the southeastern region of the united states in general or when the specific state or states are not included .
the geographic area of the midwestern region of the united states in general or when the specific state or states are not indicated .
the geographic area of the northwestern region of the united states .
the geographic area of the southwestern region of the united states .
preservation of cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  or embryos by storage at low temperatures .
a work consisting of a list of books ,  articles ,  documents ,  publications ,  and other items ,  usually on a single subject or related subjects .
work consisting of a statement of the opinions ,  beliefs ,  and policy of the editor or publisher of a journal ,  usually on current matters of medical or scientific significance to the medical community or society at large .
work consisting of written or printed communication between individuals or between persons and representatives of corporate bodies .
a reference book containing a list of words  -  usually in alphabetical order  -  giving information about form ,  pronunciation ,  etymology ,  grammar ,  and meaning .
work consisting of a more or less comprehensive review of the literature on a specific subject ,  with usually an extensive critical analysis and synthesis of the literature .
a culture - specific acute delusional syndrome occurring mostly in the malay people and southern chinese .
history obtained by gathering ,  preserving and interpreting the voices and memories of people ,  communities ,  and participants in past events .
countries known in remote history  ( as byzantium )  or former names of countries reflecting political changes in the 19th or 20th century  ( as germany ,  east )  .
the period before menopause .in premenopausal women ,  the climacteric transition from full sexual maturity to cessation of ovarian cycle takes place between the age of late thirty and early fifty .
the physiological period following the menopause ,  the permanent cessation of the menstrual life .
pain in the pelvic region of genital and non - genital origin .
geographical sites known to be extant in a remote period in the history of civilization ,  familiar as the names of ancient countries and empires .
the endogenous peptides with opiate - like activity .
works consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during a person's life .
work consisting of formal presentations made usually to fulfill requirements for an academic degree .
work consisting of publicly distributed notices ,  usually as paid announcements in mass media such as newspapers ,  magazines ,  or on billboards .
a type of illustration ,  sometimes animated ,  typically in a non - realistic or semi - realistic style .
work consisting of bibliographic records ,  created according to specific and uniform principles of construction and under the control of an authority file ,  which describe the materials contained in a collection ,  library ,  or group of libraries .
work consisting of records ,  usually private ,  of writers' experiences ,  observations ,  feelings ,  attitudes ,  etc .
work containing informational articles on subjects in every field of knowledge ,  usually arranged in alphabetical order ,  or a similar work limited to a special field or subject .
works consisting of transient everyday items ,  usually printed on paper ,  that are produced for a specific limited use and then often thrown away .
the geographic designation for states bordering on or located in the pacific ocean .
work consisting of a structured file of information or a set of logically related data stored and retrieved using computer - based means .
synthetic organosiloxane gels that are formed from synthetic polymers of silicone oxide with organic sidechains  ( polydimethylsiloxane )  by lengthening the polymer chains .
works consisting of brief accounts or narratives of incidents or events .
work consisting of collections of illustrative plates ,  charts ,  etc . ,  usually with explanatory captions .
works consisting of self - described accounts .
work consisting exclusively or mainly of pictures but not technical drawings .
work listing and describing various sources of information ,  from multiple media or in different formats ,  on a given subject .
the weight of the fetus in utero .
a single nucleotide variation in a genetic sequence that occurs at appreciable frequency in the population .
the expected function of a member of a particular profession .
clinical and laboratory techniques used to enhance fertility in humans and animals .
organized services to provide diagnosis ,  treatment ,  and prevention of genetic disorders .
a mammalian fetus expelled by induced abortion or spontaneous abortion .
a subclass of enzymes which includes all dehydrogenases acting on carbon - carbon bonds .
the period in the menstrual cycle that is optimal for fertilization of the ovum and yielding pregnancy .
the transitional period before and after menopause .
an endocrine state in men ,  characterized by a significant decline in the production of testosterone ;  dehydroepiandrosterone ;  and other hormones such as human growth hormone .
processes required for cell enlargement and cell proliferation .
a stage of development at which the adrenal glands undergo maturation leading to the capability of producing increasing amounts of adrenal androgens ,  dehydroepiandrosterone and androstenedione .
specific genre of publication .
the capability of producing yolk - filled eggs that hatch within the body ,  so that the young are born alive ,  but without placental attachment .
the capability of bearing live young  ( rather than eggs )  in nonmammalian species .
the capability of producing eggs  ( ova )  from which young are hatched outside the body .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by members of minority groups ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
methods to detect and address an existing disease prior to the appearance of symptoms .
methods to reduce the harm of symptomatic disease ,  such as disability or death ,  through rehabilitation and treatment .
a large family of structurally - related transcription factors that were originally discovered based upon their close sequence homology to an hmg - box domain found in sex - determining region y protein .
former state in north central germany .
the capability of individuals to recognize their own emotions and those of others ,  discern between different feelings and label them appropriately ,  use emotional information to guide thinking and behavior ,  and manage and / or adjust emotions to adapt to environments or achieve one's goal ( s )  .
a sultanate comprised at various times of parts of europe ,  asia ,  and africa .
a dual monarchy formed in 1867 .
the full set of chromosomes presented as a systematized array of metaphase chromosomes from a photomicrograph of a single cell nucleus arranged in pairs in descending order of size and according to the position of the centromere .
the state of the reproductive system when functioning optimally without evidence of disease ,  disorders ,  or deficiencies .
individuals connecting by family ,  work or other interests .
realm in central europe consisting of a confederation of german and italian territories under the suzerainty of an emperor and existing from the 9th or 10th century to 1806 .
anxiety related to the execution of a task .
platforms that provide the ability and tools to create and publish information accessed via the internet .
work consisting of accounts of individual experience in relation to a particular field or of participation in related activities .
group behavior toward others by virtue of their group membership which is prejudiced .
an historical region of western asia situated within the tigris–euphrates river system ,  in the northern part of the fertile crescent ,  in modern days roughly corresponding to most of iraq ,  kuwait ,  the eastern parts of syria ,  southeastern turkey ,  and regions along the turkish–syrian and iran–iraq borders .
an intense ,  urgent ,  or abnormal desire or longing  ( for food ,  drugs ,  alcohol ,  etc .
unicellular ,  prokaryotic organisms that reproduce by cell division and usually have cell walls ;  can be shaped like spheres ,  rods or spirals and can be found in virtually any environment .
a living organism that has membranous cell walls ,  requires oxygen and organic foods ,  and is capable of voluntary movement ,  as distinguished from a plant or mineral .
a physical object is an identifiable collection of matter ,  which may be constrained by an identifiable boundary ,  and may move as a unit by translation or rotation ,  in 3 - dimensional space .
a physical object created by hand or machine .
any number of entities  ( members )  considered as a unit .
any matter of defined composition that has discrete existence ,  whose origin may be biological ,  mineral or chemical .
substances taken in by the body to provide nourishment .
single - celled organisms lacking nuclei ,  similar to prokaryotes in most aspects of cell structure and metabolism .
organism or cells with a nucleus separated from the cytoplasm by a two membrance nuclear envelope and compartmentalization of function into distinct cytoplasmic organelles .
an entity is anything that exists or has existed or will exist .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an occurrent is an entity that unfolds itself in time or it is the instantaneous boundary of such an entity  ( for example a beginning or an ending )  or it is a temporal or spatiotemporal region which such an entity occupies a temporal region or a spatiotemporal region .
b is an independent continuant = def .
a region of time .
a process is an entity that is identifiable only through the unfolding of time ,  has temporal parts ,  and unless otherwise specified / predicted ,  cannot be identified from any instant of time in which it exists .
a realizable entity is an attribute that is exhibited under some condition and is realized in some process .
a quality is an attribute that is intrinsically associated with its bearer  ( or its parts )  ,  but whose presence / absence and observed / measured value may vary .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a role is a realizable entity that describes behaviours ,  rights and obligations of an entity in some particular circumstance .
a material entity that is part of an object but is not demarcated by any physical discontinuities .
a site is a spatial region bounded  ( in part or in whole )  by material entities and may be occupied by material entities .
an object is an entity that is wholly identifiable at any instant of time during which it exists .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
a material entity is a physical entity that is spatially extended ,  exists as a whole at any point in time and has mass .
an entity which is immaterial .
a synthetic dideoxynucleoside .after intracellular phosphorylation to its active metabolite ,  zidovudine inhibits dna polymerase ,  resulting in the inhibition of dna replication and cell death .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an estrogen medication which is used in hormonal birth control for cisgender women .
an estrogen medication which has been used in the treatment of prostate cancer in cisgender men .
the undecanoate ester form of the androgen testosterone ,  with gonadotropin - secretory inhibiting and hormone replacement activity .
a synthetic analog of gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  .
the acetate salt form of estradiol ,  the most potent ,  naturally produced estrogen .
a 3 - oxo steroid that has alpha configuration at position 5 .
an n - substituted amphetamine analog .it is a widely abused drug classified as a hallucinogen and causes marked ,  long - lasting changes in brain serotonergic systems .
a metabolite of estriol with a 15 - alpha - hydroxyl group .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
any primary alcohol based on an ethanol skeleton .
the most potent androgen ,  required for sex development .
a steroid hormone synthesized by the adrenal glands and the gonads from either 17 - alpha - hydroxyprogesterone or dehydroepiandrosterone and is a precursor of testosterone .
members of the class of compounds composed of amino acids joined together by peptide bonds between adjacent amino acids into linear ,  branched or cyclical structures .
a 16 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 16 has alpha - configuration .
the major progestational steroid that is secreted primarily by the corpus luteum and the placenta .
organic compounds with a carbonyl group  ( c=o )  bonded to two other carbon atoms as the skeleton structure .
any 3beta - hydroxy - steroid that contains a double bond between positions 5 and 6 .
one of three naturally occurring estrogens synthesized from androstenedione in the adrenal glands and peripheral tissues by aromatization and is the primary estrogen produced after menopause .
an androstanoid having 17beta - hydroxy and 3 - oxo groups ,  together with unsaturation at c - 4 - c - 5 . .
"lipids" is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
a compound having the structure rc#n ;  thus a c - substituted derivative of hydrocyanic acid ,  hc#n .
any oxo steroid carrying the oxo group at position 17 .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
a monocarboxylic acid amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an arene ring system .
any nitrogen molecular entity containing the group  - n3 .
members of the class of pyrimidones consisting of pyrimidine - 2 , 4 , 6 ( 1h , 3h , 5h )  - trione  ( barbituric acid )  and its derivatives .
any of various benzoic acid amides .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
any organochlorine compound containing a benzene ring which is substituted by one or more chlorines .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
salts and c - organyl derivatives of hydrogen cyanide ,  hc#n .
an amide which is cyclic .
any alicyclic ketone based on a cyclohexane skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
the most potent form of the naturally occurring steroid sex hormone in humans ,  produced by ovary ,  placenta ,  testis ,  and in small amount by adrenal cortex .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of fluorine .
glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
any p - block molecular entity containing a halogen .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
any of a class of substances containing hydroxy groups .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a salt that contains an organic ion .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
cyclic esters of hydroxy carboxylic acids ,  containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxy group with methanol .
any of a class of salts and esters of nitrous acid .
a peptide containing a relatively small number of amino acids .
an organic compound with one ring structure .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
an alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
a molecular entity contaning oxygen .
compounds that are derived from piperazine .
members of the class of phenols that contain 2 or more benzene rings each of which is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
hormones possessing the steroid ring system ;  e .g . ,  androgens ,  estrogens ,  adrenocortical hormones .
a molecular entity which is both a steroid and a lactone .
analogs or derivatives of amphetamine .
a molecular entity contaning sulfur .
an ester in which one or both oxygens of an ester group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
an organic compound with two different ring structures .
an alkaloid ester extracted from the leaves of plants including coca .
a hydroxylated metabolite of estradiol or estrone that has a hydroxyl group at c3 ,  16 - alpha ,  and 17 - beta position .
hallucinogenic alkaloid isolated from the flowering heads  ( peyote )  of lophophora  ( formerly anhalonium )  williamsii ,  a mexican cactus used in indian religious rites and as an experimental psychotomimetic .
an androstanoid that is androst - 5 - ene substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 3 and an oxo group at position 17 .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a synthetic ,  nonsteroidal antiandrogen .
the actetate salt form of chlormadinone ,  a synthetic progestin with antiandrogenic and antigonadotropic effects .
the synthetic dipropionate ester of estradiol .
the parenterally - administered synthetic valerate ester of estradiol .
a benzodiazepine with pharmacologic actions similar to those of diazepam that can cause anterograde amnesia .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
any of various derivatives of oxoacids .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
any of various derivatives of sulfur oxoacid .
any of various derivatives of sulfonic acid .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
a molecular entity contaning carbon .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a compound having one atom as the only common member of two rings .
compounds which contain two or more rings in their structure .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
an aromatic compound that is organic .
a molecule that features one ring .
a monocyclic compound in which the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
any of various biological macromolecules which serve to store information ,  particularly genetic information .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
an aromatic compound that is benzenoid .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
an organic hydroxy compound that consists of benzene bearing a single hydroxy substituent .
an intermediate in testosterone biosynthesis ,  found in the testis or the adrenal glands .
the cypionate salt form of estradiol ,  the most potent ,  naturally produced estrogen .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
a 17 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 17 has a beta - configuration .
a steroid contaning a hydroxy group .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an amide of a sulfonic acid rs ( =o ) 2nr'2 .
any fluoroarene that is a benzene or a substituted benzene carrying at least one fluoro group .
substances that inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or biologic effects of androgens by either antagonizing the responsiveness of androgen sensitive tissues or competing with their binding sites .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
an aza - steroid is a steroid where in the carbon skeleton a carbon atom is replaced by nitrogen .
a carboxylic ester in which the carboxylic acid component can be any fatty acid .
any steroid having a ketone functional group .
a compound that is an imidazopyrimidine .
a steroid ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with the 3 - hydroxy group of a sterol .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of virus diseases .
esters of benzoic acid or substituted benzoic acids .
a protein is an organic polymer that is composed of one or more linear polymers of amino acids .
a cyclic ketone in which the carbocyclic ring structure which may be saturated or unsaturated ,  but may not be a benzenoid or other aromatic system .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond .
any of a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid in which the 3 - hydroxy substituent is in the beta - position .
a hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 17 .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 16 .
an oxo steroid carrying an oxo group at position 20 .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
an organofluorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - fluorine bond .
any of various compounds comprising a class of bicyclic  [ 3 .2 .1 ]  alkaloids and secondary metabolites that contain a tropane ring in their chemical structure .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
a spiro compound in which at least one of the cyclic components is an oxygen heterocyle .
a macromolecule derived from one species of  ( real ,  implicit or hypothetical )  monomer .
any aminopurine that has amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 ,  and their substituted derivatives .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
an organic compound with four different ring structures .
an organic compound that is heteropolycyclic .
any of various compounds considered imidazolidines .
any of various compounds considered azabicycloalkanes .
a compound with an aromatic ring and a heterocycle with a methylenedioxy group .
a pyrazolidine .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
an alkaloid with a phenethylamine group .
any of a series of isomeric heterocyclic chemical compounds with the molecular formula c6h5n3 .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
a ketone that is cycle .
a synthetic ,  nonsteroidal form of estrogen .
a 2 , 6 - diaminopurine that is  ( 1s )  - cyclopent - 2 - en - 1 - ylmethanol in which the pro - r hydrogen at the 4 - position is substituted by a 2 - amino - 6 -  ( cyclopropylamino )  - 9h - purin - 9 - yl group .
any of various chemical compounds containing a nitrite ester .
any carboxylic ester where the carboxylic acid component is acetic acid .
any oxo steroid where an oxo substituent is located at position 3 .
an ester of a steroid .
a 3 - oxo steroid conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
substances that inhibit or antagonize the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis or biological effect of secreted hormones .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid that is estradiol substituted by a ethynyl group at position 17 .
a chemical substance that prevents or reduces the probability of conception .
an agent taken orally to prevent conception .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
any hormone that is responsible for controlling sexual characteristics and reproductive function .
a sex hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics in vertebrates by binding to androgen receptors .
a hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of feminine sex characteristics in mammals by binding to oestrogen receptors .
any steroid based on an androstane skeleton and its derivatives .
any compound containing the thiocarbonyl group ,  c=s .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
an orally active 3 - oxo - 5 - alpha - steroid 4 - dehydrogenase inhibitor .
a substance used either in the prevention or facilitation of pregnancy .
chemical substances that interrupt pregnancy after implantation .
the acetate salt of a synthetic steroidal antiandrogen with weak progestational and antineoplastic activities .
a salt of citric acid .
substances that produce effects similar to those of progesterone ,  the only natural progestogen .
substances that inhibit or antagonize the biosynthesis or biologic effects of estrogens by either antagonizing the responsiveness of estrogen sensitive tissues or competing with their binding sites .
a synthetic spironolactone analogue and progestin with progestational and anti - mineralocorticoid activity .
hormones synthesized in the cortex of the adrenal gland and consist of two subclasses ,  glucocorticoids  ( carbohydrate regulation )  and mineralocorticoids  ( electrolyte regulation )  .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
an ester of enanthate .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a chemical substance which binds to specific hormone receptors activating the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a molecular entity containing any nitrogen .
a compound of general formula rc ( =o ) sr' .
a toluidine derivative and a nonsteroidal antiandrogen that is structurally related to bicalutamide and nilutamide .
any aromatic ether that consists of a benzene skeleton substituted with one or more methoxy groups .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
an organic compound that is polycyclic .
an aza - steroid that is inasteride in which the tert - butyl group is replaced by a 2 , 5 - bis ( trifluoromethyl ) phenyl group .
a macromolecule composed of repeating alkane or substituted alkane units .
a macromolecule composed of ethane or substituted ethane units .
a macromolecule composed of repeating  - chr - ch2 -  units .
a polyvinyl resin used extensively in the manufacture of plastics ,  including medical devices ,  tubing ,  and other packaging .
a synthetic long - acting agonist of gonadotropin - releasing hormone .
an imidazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
an oligopeptide comprising pyroglutamyl ,  histidyl ,  tryptophyl ,  seryl ,  tyrosyl ,  1 - benzyl - d - histidyl ,  leucyl ,  arginyl ,  and n - ethylprolinamide residues joined in sequence .
the citrate salt of sildenafil .
the sulfur analogue of 'acetal' .
a thioacetal having the structure r2c ( or' )  ( sr' )  .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a polymer is a mixture ,  which is composed of macromolecules of different kinds and which may be differentiated by composition ,  length ,  degree of branching etc .
one of a class of naturally occurring alkaloids with a structure based on that of ergoline .
an analogue of a nucleoside ,  being an n - glycosyl compound in which the nitrogen - containing moiety is a modified nucleotide base .
an equimolar mixture of two enantiomers .
a member of the class of cyclohexanones in which one of the hydrogens at position 2 is substituted by a 2 - chlorophenyl group ,  while the other is substituted by a methylamino group .
a steroid that has a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton .
a polymer ,  composed of polysiloxane macromolecules .
a synthetic gel that is used as an outer coating on breast implants and as the inside filling of some implants .
any organic molecular entity derived from a fatty acid .
an ester where the ester linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
an amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
any drug which binds to gonadotropin - releasing hormone receptors and triggers a response .
a monothioacetal that consists of cytosine having a  ( 2r , 5s )  - 2 -  ( hydroxymethyl )  - 1 , 3 - oxathiolan - 5 - yl moiety attached at position 1 .
an oligopeptide comprising pyroglutamyl ,  histidyl ,  tryptophyl ,  seryl ,  tyrosyl ,  d - tryptophyl ,  leucyl ,  arginyl ,  prolyl and glycinamide residues joined in sequence .
an oligopeptide comprising pyroglutamyl ,  histidyl ,  tryptophyl ,  seryl ,  tyrosyl ,  d - leucyl ,  leucyl ,  arginyl ,  and n - ethylprolinamide residues joined in sequence .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton that acts as a hormone .
semisynthetic derivative of ergot  ( claviceps purpurea )  .
a synthetic ,  acetate derivative of the sex hormone progesterone .
an amphetamine with central nervous system  ( cns )  stimulating activity .
an orally bioavailable ,  organic ,  non - steroidal small molecule targeting the androgen receptor  ( ar )  with potential antineoplastic activity .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
any organic molecule containing a c#c bond .
a chemical substance that is an organic compound or mixture of compounds that is composed of long - chain molecules and is malleable at ambient temperatures .
a potent synthetic agonist of gonadotropin - releasing hormone with 3 -  ( 2 - naphthyl )  - d - alanine substitution at residue 6 .
the synthetic benzoate ester of estradiol .
a steroid which is substituted with one or more chlorine atoms in any position .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a six - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
a major gonadotropin secreted by the adenohypophysis  ( pituitary gland ,  anterior )  .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring in which only one substituent is chlorine .
an organofluorine compound that is  ( trifluoromethyl ) benzene and derivatives arising from substitution of one or more of the phenyl hydrogens .
any member of the class of fluorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring carrying a single fluorine substitutent .
a 17beta - hydroxy steroid that is testosterone in which the 4 - 5 double bond has been reduced to a single bond with unspecified configuration at position 5 .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
an orally bioavailable pyrazolopyrimidinone derivative structurally related to zaprinast ,  with vasodilating and potential anti - inflammatory activities .
a synthetic 17 - spironolactone corticosteroid with potassium - sparing diuretic ,  antihypertensive ,  and antiandrogen activities .
an eight - carbon ester form of testosterone .
testosterone enanthate ,  sold under the brand names delatestryl and xyosted among others ,  is an androgen and anabolic steroid  ( aas )  medication which is used mainly in the treatment of low testosterone levels in men .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a male germ cell is a germ cell that supports male gamete production .
a male germ cell that develops from spermatogonia .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
a female germ cell is a germ cell that supports female gamete production .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
a female gamete where meiosis has progressed to metaphase ii and is able to participate in fertilization .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
cells of the higher organisms ,  containing a true nucleus bounded by a nuclear membrane .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
a mature sexual reproductive cell of the male germline .
cells as they occur in animals .
the reproductive cell in multicellular organisms .
a primary oocyte is an oocyte that has not completed female meosis i .
a secondary oocyte is an oocyte that has not completed meiosis ii .
a diploid cell that has derived from a spermatogonium and can subsequently begin meiosis and divide into two haploid secondary spermatocytes .
one of the two haploid cells into which a primary spermatocyte divides ,  and which in turn gives origin to spermatids .
a mature sexual reproductive cell of the female germline .
a disease that is the consequence of the presence of pathogenic microbial agents ,  including pathogenic viruses ,  pathogenic bacteria ,  fungi ,  protozoa ,  multicellular parasites ,  and aberrant proteins known as prions .
a cancer that is classified based on the organ it starts in .
a cancer that is classified by the type of cell from which it is derived .
a large intestine cancer that is located in the terminal part of the large intestine .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that has material basis in epithelial cells .
a substance - related disorder that occurs upon the abrupt discontinuation / separation or a decrease in dosage of the intake of medications ,  recreational drugs ,  and alcohol .
a disease of mental health that occur during a child's developmental period between birth and age 18 resulting in retarding of the child's psychological or physical development .
a developmental disorder of mental health that categorizes specific learning disabilities and developmental disorders affecting coordination .
a developmental disorder of mental health that refers to a group of five disorders characterized by impairments in socialization and communication ,  as well as restricted interests and repetitive behaviors .
wide continuum of associated cognitive and neurobehavioral disorders ,  including ,  but not limited to ,  three core - defining features: impairments in socialization ,  impairments in verbal and nonverbal communication ,  and restricted and repetitive patterns of behaviors .
a neoplasm that is composed of dysplastic cells and there is no morphologic evidence of infiltration of the surrounding tissues .
a neoplasm which is characterized by the absence of morphologic features associated with malignancy  ( severe cytologic atypia ,  tumor cell necrosis ,  and high mitotic rate )  .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located in the thoracic cavity .
an agnosia that is a deficiency in understanding ,  processing ,  or describing emotions .
a bipolar disorder that is characterized by at least one hypomanic episode and at least one major depressive episode ;  with this disorder ,  depressive episodes are more frequent and more intense than manic episodes .
a cell type cancer that has material basis in abnormally proliferating cells derived from precursor cells called blast cells .
a disorder which is not mental in nature or which is primarily non - mental .
a gastrointestinal system cancer that is located in the intestine .
a reproductive cancer that is located in the prostate .
a disease by infectious agent that results in infection ,  has material basis in bacteria .
a personality disorder that involves a need for social isolation ,  anxiety in social situations ,  odd behavior and thinking ,  and often unconventional beliefs .
an anxiety disorder that involves the feeling of excessive and inappropriate levels of anxiety over being separated from a person to whom the individual has a strong emotional attachment or place .
a personality disorder that involves a prolonged disturbance of personality function characterized by depth and variability of moods .
a personality disorder that is characterized by a pervasive psychological dependence on other people .
a personality disorder that is characterized by a pervasive pattern of preoccupation with orderliness ,  perfectionism ,  and mental and interpersonal control at the expense of flexibility ,  openness ,  and efficiency .
an anxiety disorder that involves unwanted and repeated thoughts ,  feelings ,  ideas ,  sensations  ( obsessions )  ,  or behaviors that make them feel driven to do something  ( compulsions )  .
a disorder of mental health in which the normally well - integrated functions of memory ,  identity ,  perception ,  or consciousness are separated  ( dissociated )  .
a personality disorder that is characterized by a lack of interest in social relationships ,  a tendency towards a solitary lifestyle ,  secretiveness ,  emotional coldness and sometimes sexual apathy ,  with a simultaneous rich ,  elaborate and exclusively internal fantasy world .
a personality disorder that is characterized by paranoia and a pervasive ,  long - standing suspiciousness and generalized mistrust of others .
a personality disorder that involves a pervasive pattern of disregard for ,  and violation of ,  the rights of others that begins in childhood or early adolescence and continues into adulthood .
a disorder characterized by a marked pattern of inattention and / or hyperactivity - impulsivity that is inconsistent with developmental level and clearly interferes with functioning in at least two settings  ( e .g .
a disease involving the ovary or ovaries .
a cell type cancer that has material basis in abnormally proliferating cells derived from embryonic mesoderm .
anxiety disorder characterized by the persistent and irrational fear ,  anxiety ,  or avoidance of social or performance situations .
a disease involving the vagina .
an eating disorder that is characterized by an appetite for non - nutritive substances or food ingredients .
an eating disorder that is characterized by a cycle of binge eating  ( bulimia or bingeing )  followed by inappropriate acts  ( purging )  to avert weight gain .
chronically depressed mood that occurs for most of the day more days than not for at least 2 years .
a developmental disorder characterized by difficulties with social interaction and communication ,  and by restricted and repetitive behavior .
a central nervous system disease that results in the progressive deterioration of function or structure of neurons .
a disorder characterized by sexual hypoactivity .
a disease by infectious agent that is carried out by a parasite which by definition is a pathogen that simultaneously injures and derives sustenance from its host .
a bipolar disorder that is characterized by at least one manic or mixed episode .
a large intestine cancer that is located in the anus .
any of various diseases affecting the ureters .
an anxiety disorder that is characterized by long - lasting anxiety that is not focused on any one object or situation .
a disease that is characterized by abnormally rapid cell division .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located in reproductive system organs .
a personality disorder that is characterized by a pervasive pattern of social inhibition ,  feelings of inadequacy ,  extreme sensitivity to negative evaluation ,  and avoidance of social interaction .
a disorder of mental health that involve long - term patterns of thoughts and behaviors that cause serious problems with relationships and work .
a disease involving the penis .
a disorder of mental health that affects cognitive functions including memory processing ,  perception and problem solving .
a disease by infectious agent that results in infection ,  has material basis in fungi ,  which pass the resistance barriers of the human or animal body .
a substance use disorder that involves the recurring use of alcoholic beverages despite negative consequences .
a thoracic cancer that originates in the mammary gland .
a disease of cellular proliferation that is malignant and primary ,  characterized by uncontrolled cellular proliferation ,  local cell invasion and metastasis .
a disease of anatomical entity that occurs in the muscular and / or skeletal system .
a disorder of mental health where symptoms are deliberately produced ,  feigned or exaggerated in order to falsely demonstrate the presence of an illness .
a somatoform disorder that involves numbness ,  blindness ,  paralysis or fits without a neurological cause .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located in kidney ,  ureter ,  bladder and urethra .
the presence of a melanoma ,  a malignant cancer originating from pigment producing melanocytes .
an organ system cancer that is manifested in the reproductive organs .
a disease involving the fallopian tube .
a colorectal cancer that is located in the rectum .
a cognitive disorder that involves an excessive ,  irrational dread of everyday situations .
a specific developmental disorder that involves specific developmental disorders of speech and language .
a disease involving the vulva .
a large intestine cancer that is located in the colon .
a reproductive system disease that impairs the ability to reproduce and is located in the uterus ,  vagina ,  cervix ,  ovaries or fallopian tubes .
a demyelinating disease that involves damage to the fatty myelin sheaths around the axons of the brain and spinal cord resulting in demyelination and scarring .
a cognitive disorder that involves abnormal thinking and perceptions resulting in a disconnection with reality .
a syndrome resulting from bilateral lesions of the medial temporal lobe  ( including amygdaloid nucleus )  .
a disease involving the testis .
a personality disorder that involves an excessive preoccupation with issues of personal adequacy ,  power ,  prestige and vanity .
a parasitic infectious disease that is caused by parasitic protozoa which are microorganisms classified as unicellular eukaryotes .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located in endocrine glands which secretes a type of hormone directly into the bloodstream to regulate the body .
a cell type cancer that has material basis in abnormally proliferating cells derived from epithelial cells .
an organ system cancer located in the gastrointestinal tract that is manifested in organs of the gastrointestinal system .
any disease of the nervous system in which the myelin sheath of neurons is damaged .
a complex neoplasm composed of a mixture of gonadal elements ,  such as large primordial germ cells ,  immature sertoli cells or granulosa cells of the sex cord ,  and gonadal stromal cells .
a nervous system disease that affects either the spinal cord  ( myelopathy )  or brain  ( encephalopathy )  of the central nervous system .
a mood disorder that involves alternating periods of mania and depression .
a cognitive disorder that involves an excessive ,  irrational dread of everyday situations .
a personality disorder that is characterized by a pattern of excessive emotionality and attention - seeking ,  including an excessive need for approval and inappropriately seductive behavior ,  usually beginning in early adulthood .
a disease involving the uterus .
a breast cancer that has material basis in abnormally proliferating cells derived from epithelial cells .
any of various diseases affecting the bladder .
a rare malignant mesenchymal neoplasm that arises from the prostate gland .
a communication disorder that is a loss of ability to recognize objects ,  persons ,  sounds ,  shapes ,  or smells while the specific sense is not defective nor is there any significant memory loss .
a primary bacterial infectious disease that is a sexually transmitted systemic disease ,  has material basis in treponema pallidum subsp pallidum ,  which is transmitted by sexual contact ,  transmitted by blood product transfusion ,  transmitted by congenital method from mother to fetus or transmitted by contact with infectious lesions .
a speech disorder that involves a complete inability to speak .
disorders having the presence of physical symptoms that suggest a general medical condition but that are not fully explained by another medical condition ,  by the direct effects of a substance ,  or by another mental disorder .
a reproductive system disease that affects male reproductive organs .
a anus cancer that has material basis in abnormally proliferating cells derived from epithelial cells and is located in the anus .
an organ system cancer located_in the thoracic cavity that develops in the different types of cells within the lungs ,  as well as less common cancers of the esophagus ,  the trachea ,  or the chest wall .
a disorder of mental health that involves disruption of sleep patterns .
any of various diseases affecting the kidney .
an intestinal cancer that effects the long ,  tube - like organ that is connected to the small intestine at one end and the anus at the other .
an anxiety disorder where fear and anxiety are triggered by a specific stimulus or situation .
a phobic disorder involving the specific anxiety about being in a place or situation where escape is difficult or embarrassing or where help may be unavailable .
an anxiety disorder that is characterized by unexpected and repeated episodes of intense fear accompanied by physical symptoms that may include chest pain ,  heart palpitations ,  shortness of breath ,  dizziness ,  or abdominal distress .
a phobic disorder that is characterized by an unreasonable or irrational fear related to exposure to specific objects or situations .
an anal canal cancer that derives from epithelial cells .
a disease that disrupts the functioning of an anatomical entity .
any of various diseases affecting the urethra .
a psychotic disorder that involves an uncommon psychiatric condition in which patients present with circumscribed symptoms of non - bizarre delusions ,  but with the absence of prominent hallucinations and no thought disorder ,  mood disorder ,  or significant flattening effect .
a disease of anatomical entity that is located in the central nervous system or located in the peripheral nervous system .
a systemic disease which can present with cutaneous lesions with or without internal involvement .
a specific developmental disorder that is characterized by abnormal eating habits that may involve either insufficient or excessive food intake to the detriment of an individual's physical and emotional health .
an eating disorder that is characterized by the lack or loss of appetite ,  known as anorexia .
a herpes simplex that results in infection located in genital system ,  or located in rectum ,  has material basis in human herpesvirus 1 or has material basis in human herpesvirus 2 ,  which is transmitted by sexual contact .
a communication disorder that involves difficulty with the act of speech production .
a large intestine cancer that is located in the colon and / or located in the rectum .
a disease by infectious agent that results in infection ,  has material basis in viruses .
features of the earth ,  typically those that were created naturally .
an anthropogenic geographic feature is a geographic feature resulting from the influence of human beings on nature .
a construction which enables the movement of humans ,  their animals or their vehicles .
a marine water body which is constitutes the majority of an astronomical body's hydrosphere .
a large expanse of saline water usually connected with an ocean .
an accumulation of water of varying size .
an open way for the passage of vehicles ,  persons ,  or animals on land .
a feature that has been constructed by deliberate human effort .
a structure that has a roof and walls and stands more or less permanently in one place .
a landform consisting of loose rock particles such as sand ,  gravel ,  shingle ,  pebbles ,  cobble ,  or even shell fragments along the shoreline of a body of water .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of solid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a sea that is not connected with an ocean .
a building in which a business presents a selection of goods and offers to trade or sell them to customers for money or other goods .
a building part is a construction which is part of a building .
a bathroom is a room which contains a washbasin or other fixture ,  such as a shower or bath ,  used for bathing by humans .
a building part which is separated from other building parts by one or more interior walls and ,  optionally ,  outdoor areas by one or more exterior walls .
a seat ,  typically for one person ,  that has a back and legs .
a piece of furniture is a movable object intended to support various human activities such as seating  ( e .g . ,  chairs ,  stools and sofas )  and sleeping  ( e .g . ,  beds )  .
a mass of water
a building which is publically accessible .
a material part of an astronomical body .
a building within which food and drink are prepared and served to customers in exchange for money or other goods and / or services .
a building which is primarily used to facilitate the buying or selling of goods or services .
a construction which comprises a durable surface layer overlying a solid surface intended to sustain vehicular or foot traffic .
a body of water which is primarily composed of saline water .
a body made up of any of various liquids .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous volume of liquid or gaseous material ,  shaped by one or more environmental processes .
a building which used to forcibly confine humans and deprive them of selected rights and freedoms ,  under the authority of a state .
a part of an astronomical body which is primarily composed of a continuous medium bearing liquid ,  gaseous ,  and solid material in varying quantities .
a sea which shalowly covers central areas of continents during periods of high sea level that result in marine transgressions .
one of the large landmasses of the earth .
the continents and countries situated on those continents ;  the united states and each of the constituent states arranged by region ;  canada and each of its provinces ;  australia and each of its states ;  the major bodies of water and major islands on both hemispheres ;  and selected major cities .
the continent south of europe ,  east of the atlantic ocean and west of the indian ocean .
the northern continent of the western hemisphere ,  extending northward from the colombia - panama border and including central america ,  mexico ,  caribbean area ,  the united states ,  canada and greenland .
the southern continent of the western hemisphere ,  extending southward from the colombia - panama border .
eurasia is the largest continent on earth ,  comprising all of europe and asia .
the smallest continent and an independent country ,  comprising six states and two territories .
the continent whose boundaries are the atlantic ocean in the west ,  the arctic ocean to the north ,  the ural mountains and ural river in the east ,  the caspian sea ,  caucasus mountains and black sea in the southeast and the mediterranean sea in the south .
the world's largest continent ;  it occupies the eastern part of the eurasian landmass and its adjacent islands and is separated from europe by the ural mountains .
a southern region and peninsula of asia ,  mostly situated on the indian plate and projecting southwards into the indian ocean from the himalayas .
the islands of the central and south pacific ,  including micronesia ,  melanesia ,  polynesia ,  and traditionally australasia .
a group of islands in the southwest pacific .
the geographical area of africa comprising angola ;  botswana ;  lesotho ;  malawi ;  mozambique ;  namibia ;  south africa ;  swaziland ;  zambia ;  and zimbabwe .
the geographical area of africa comprising benin ;  burkina faso ;  capo verde ,  cote d'ivoire ;  gambia ;  ghana ;  guinea ;  guinea bissau ;  liberia ;  mali ;  mauritania ;  niger ;  nigeria ;  senegal ;  sierra leone ;  and togo .
the northernmost region of the african continent ,  separated by the sahara from sub - saharan africa .
a vast geographical and geological feature ,  approximately 6 , 000 km in length ,  which runs from northern syria in southwest asia to central mozambique in east africa .
a large area in the middle east south of the taurus mountains ,  bounded by the mediterranean sea on the west ,  and by the northern arabian desert and upper mesopotamia to the east .
a eurasian country that stretches across the anatolian peninsula in western asia and thrace  ( rumelia )  in the balkan region of southeastern europe .
a subregion of asia ,  consisting of the countries that are geographically south of china and japan ,  east of india ,  west of papua new guinea ,  and north of australia .
egypt on the west side of the suez canal ,  in africa .
a country situated on the mediterranean coast of north africa .
a country in north africa .
an independent state in eastern africa .
a country in western africa ,  southwest of algeria and east of mauritania .
a republic in western africa ,  north of nigeria and west of chad .
a republic in central africa ,  east of niger ,  west of sudan and south of libya .
all of africa except northern africa .
the geographical area of africa comprising cameroon ;  central african republic ;  chad ;  congo ;  equatorial guinea ;  gabon ;  and democratic republic of the congo .
a great expanse of continuous bodies of salt water which together cover more than 70 percent of the earth's surface .
a country located in southwestern europe on the iberian peninsula ,  plus the balearic islands in the mediterranean ,  the canary islands in the atlantic ocean off the african coast ,  and two autonomous cities in north africa that border morocco .
egypt on the east side of the suez canal ,  in asia .
a republic in western africa ,  south and east of mali and west of niger .
a republic in western africa ,  south of mali and burkina faso ,  bordered by ghana on the east .
a republic in western africa ,  constituting an enclave within senegal extending on both sides of the gambia river .
a republic in western africa ,  south of burkina faso and west of togo .
a republic in western africa ,  south of senegal and west of guinea .
a country on the west coast of africa ,  bordered by sierra leone ,  guinea ,  cote d'ivoire ,  and the atlantic ocean .
a republic in western africa ,  south of niger between benin and cameroon .
a republic in western africa ,  southwest of mauritania and east of mali .
a republic in western africa ,  lying between ghana on its west and benin on its east .
a republic in central africa ,  east of the republic of the congo ,  south of the central african republic and north of angola and zambia .
a republic in eastern africa bounded on the north by rwanda and on the south by tanzania .
a republic in central africa lying east of chad and the central african republic and west of nigeria .
a republic in southern africa ,  the southernmost part of africa .
a republic in southern africa ,  southwest of democratic republic of the congo and west of zambia .
a country in southern africa on the atlantic coast .
a landlocked nation in southern africa .
a kingdom in southern africa ,  within the republic of south africa .
a kingdom in southern africa ,  west of mozambique .
a republic in eastern africa ,  south of ethiopia ,  west of somalia with tanzania to its south ,  and coastline on the indian ocean .
a republic in eastern africa ,  south of sudan and west of kenya .
a country in east africa bordered by kenya and uganda on the north ,  rwanda ,  burundi and the democratic republic of the congo on the west ,  and zambia ,  malawi and mozambique on the south .
a republic in southern africa east of zambia and mozambique .
a republic in southern africa ,  east of zambia and botswana and west of mozambique .
an island nation in the indian ocean off the southeastern coast of africa .
the capital and largest city of peru .
the geographical area of asia comprising kazakhstan ;  kyrgyzstan ;  tajikistan ;  turkmenistan ;  and uzbekistan .
the westernmost subregion of asia .
an approximate historical geographical term referring to a large area in the eastern mediterranean ,  primarily in western asia .
a peninsula of western asia situated northeast of africa on the arabian plate .
a region in eurasia bordered on the north by russia ,  on the southwest by turkey ,  on the west by the black sea ,  on the east by the caspian sea ,  and on the south by iran .
the eastern subregion of asia ,  defined in both geographical and ethno - cultural terms .
the southern region of the asian continent ,  which comprises the sub - himalayan saarc  ( south asian association for regional cooperation )  countries and ,  for some authorities ,  adjoining countries to the west and east .
country in the middle east ,  bordering the mediterranean sea ,  between lebanon and turkey .
a country in the middle east ,  bordering the mediterranean sea ,  between egypt and lebanon .
a country located in the middle east ,  bordering the mediterranean sea ,  between israel and syria .
the largest country in north america ,  comprising 10 provinces and three territories .
a province located in the central part of canada .
a province in the central part of canada .
a nation situated in scandinavia in northern europe  ( metropolitan denmark )  plus its two autonomous provinces ,  greenland and the faroe islands .
country in northwestern europe including great britain and the northern one - sixth of ireland ,  located between the north sea and north atlantic ocean .
the northern one - sixth of the island of ireland  -  between the north atlantic ocean and the north sea ;  northwest of france .
the most northerly of the four countries of the united kingdom ,  occupying about one - third of the island of great britain .
a region of the united kingdom ,  in the southwestern area of great britain .
the largest and most populous constituent country of the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland .
a country in central europe ,  bordering the baltic sea and the north sea ,  between the netherlands and poland ,  south of denmark .
a country in southern europe ,  occupying a peninsula extending into the central mediterranean sea ,  northeast of tunisia .
a country and constitutional monarchy in northern europe that occupies the western portion of the scandinavian peninsula .
created 7 april 1992 as a result of the division of yugoslavia .
a transcontinental country extending over much of northern eurasia .
a country in northern europe ,  bordering the baltic sea ,  between sweden and russia .
a country in eastern asia ,  occupying an island chain between the north pacific ocean and the sea of japan ,  east of the korean peninsula .
subdivisions of the country of australia whose existence and governmental structure  ( if any )  depend on federal legislation .
a peninsula located in east asia .
a state in east asia in the northern half of the korean peninsula ,  with its capital in the city of pyongyang .
a country in eastern asia ,  occupying the southern half of the korean peninsula ,  bordering the sea of japan and the yellow sea .
a sea situated between the northern coast of south america ,  the eastern coast of central america and the islands of the west indies .
an island in the caribbean sea .
a country in southwestern south america ,  bordering the south pacific ocean ,  between argentina and peru .
a country located on the eastern coast of south america ,  located between colombia and peru ,  that borders the atlantic ocean .
a country in southern asia ,  bordering the arabian sea and the bay of bengal ,  between pakistan and china .
a country spanning from central asia to the pacific ocean .
a term to refer to a geographical subregion of asia: the northeastern landmass and islands ,  bordering the pacific ocean .
a country in north america ,  bordering the caribbean sea and the gulf of mexico ,  between belize and the united states ,  and bordering the north pacific ocean ,  between guatemala and the united states .
the isthmus joining north america and south america ,  extending from the southern border of mexico to the northern border of colombia .
the southernmost country of central america .
a republic in central america .
a country in south america ,  bordered by colombia on the north ,  by peru on the east and south ,  and by the pacific ocean to the west .
country located in southern south america ,  bordering the south atlantic ocean ,  between chile and uruguay .
a country in northern south america ,  bordering the caribbean sea ,  between panama and venezuela ,  and bordering the north pacific ocean ,  between ecuador and panama .
a country located in the southeastern part of south america .
a country on the northern coast of south america .
a country in western south america ,  bordering the south pacific ocean ,  between chile and ecuador .
a landlocked country in south america .
a country in central america ,  bordering the caribbean sea ,  between guatemala and mexico .
a country in central america bordered by mexico to the northwest ,  the pacific ocean to the southwest ,  belize and the caribbean sea to the northeast ,  and honduras and el salvador to the southeast .
a country in northern europe ,  bordering the baltic sea ,  between sweden and russia .
a country in western europe ,  bordering the north sea ,  between france and the netherlands .
a country in central europe ,  east of germany .
a country whose metropolitan territory is located in western europe and that also comprises various overseas islands and territories located in other continents .
a country in central europe ,  east of france and north of italy .
a country located in central europe ,  north of italy and slovenia .
a country in western europe ,  occupying five - sixths of the island of ireland in the north atlantic ocean ,  west of great britain .
a country in southwestern europe on the iberian peninsula and including the atlantic archipelagos of the azores and madeira are also part of portugal .
a country in southern europe ,  bordering the aegean ,  ionian ,  and mediterranean seas ,  between albania and turkey .
country located in europe .it is bordered by the north sea ,  belgium ,  and germany .
a small landlocked country in western europe ,  located in the eastern pyrenees mountains and bordered by spain  ( catalonia )  and france .
a peninsula located in the extreme southwest of europe ,  and includes modern day spain ,  portugal ,  andorra and gibraltar and a very small part of france .
a country in southeastern europe ,  bordering the black sea ,  between romania and turkey .
a country in southeastern europe ,  bordering the black sea ,  between bulgaria and ukraine .
a country in central europe ,  northwest of romania and south of slovakia .
a country in southeastern europe ,  bordering the adriatic and ionian seas ,  between greece and montenegro .
created 1 january 1993 as a result of the division of czechoslovakia into the czech republic and slovakia .
a country in southern central europe bordering italy to the west ,  the adriatic sea to the southwest ,  croatia to the south and east ,  hungary to the northeast ,  and austria to the north .
created 1 january 1993 as a result of the division of czechoslovakia into the czech republic and slovakia .
a republic located south of hungary ,  west of romania and bulgaria ,  and part of the former yugoslavia .
a republic in central america .
a peninsula extending from the southern alps in the north to the central mediterranean sea in the south .
any of various areas in china designated as special administrative regions ,  that is a type of provincial - level administrative divisions of the people's republic of china directly under central people's government .
a special administrative region of the people's republic of china  ( prc )  .
a first - order administrative division .one of the three official regions of the kingdom of belgium .
the largest municipality and historical center of the brussels - capital region ,  and the capital of belgium .
a peninsula of eurasia located in northern europe ,  which roughly comprises the mainland of sweden ,  the mainland of norway ,  and the northwestern area of finland .
a republic stretching from the indian ocean east to new guinea ,  comprising six main islands: java ,  sumatra ,  bali ,  kalimantan  ( the indonesian portion of the island of borneo )  ,  sulawesi  ( formerly known as the celebes )  and irian jaya  ( the western part of new guinea )  .
formerly known as siam ,  this is a southeast asian nation at the center of the indochina peninsula .
a country in southern asia ,  bordering the bay of bengal ,  between burma and india .
a country in southeastern asia ,  bordering the gulf of thailand ,  gulf of tonkin ,  and south china sea ,  as well as china ,  laos ,  and cambodia .
a country that consists of the island of cuba  ( the largest and second - most populous island of the greater antilles )  ,  isla de la juventud and several adjacent small islands .
an archipelagic state in the southern caribbean ,  lying northeast of the south american nation of venezuela and south of grenada in the lesser antilles .
the islands of the caribbean sea ,  largely located on the caribbean plate .
a group of islands that include cuba ,  jamaica ,  the island of hispaniola  ( composed of haiti on the west side and the dominican republic on the east side )  and puerto rico .
an island .one of the greater antilles .
a region of japan ,  in the middle east coast of honshu island .
a prefecture of japan on honshu island .
capital of the country of japan .
a landlocked country in eastern europe ,  located between romania to the west and ukraine to the north ,  east and south .
a parliamentary democracy with a constitutional monarch in southeast asia ,  consisting of 11 states  ( west malaysia )  on the malay peninsula and two states  ( east malaysia )  on the island of borneo .
country of islands in southeastern asia ,  islands between malaysia and indonesia .
country in southern asia ,  an island in the indian ocean ,  south of india .
part of a long volcanic island arc ,  most of which wraps around the eastern end of the caribbean sea on the western boundary with the atlantic ocean ,  and some of which lies on the southern fringe of the sea just north of south america .
the southern islands of the lesser antilles .
the only administrative arrondissement in the brussels - capital region in belgium .
the largest island of japan ,  called the mainland ;  it is south of hokkaido across the tsugaru strait ,  north of shikoku across the inland sea ,  and northeast of kyushu across the kanmon strait .
county located in southern asia ,  between china and india .
the northern portion of the state of california .
a country in the middle east ,  bordering the gulf of oman ,  the persian gulf ,  and the caspian sea ,  between iraq and pakistan .
a country in the middle east ,  bordering the persian gulf ,  between iran and syria .
a country in southeastern asia ,  comprised of an archipelago between the philippine sea and the south china sea ,  east of vietnam .
a census metropolitan area that includes the region of montreal and surrounding areas .
the southern portion of the caucasus region between europe and asia ,  extending from the greater caucasus to the turkish and iranian borders ,  between the black and caspian seas .
a country located in southern asia ,  bordering the arabian sea ,  between india on the east and iran and afghanistan on the west and china in the north .
a country on the arabian peninsula .
a sultanate on the southeast coast of the arabian peninsula .
country in eastern asia ,  islands bordering the east china sea ,  philippine sea ,  south china sea ,  and taiwan strait ,  north of the philippines ,  off the southeastern coast of china .
the collective name for the islands of the central pacific ocean ,  including the austral islands ,  cook islands ,  easter island ,  hawaii ;  new zealand ;  phoenix islands ,  pitcairn island ;  samoa ;  tonga ;  tuamotu archipelago ,  wake island ,  and wallis and futuna islands .
australia ,  new zealand and neighboring islands in the south pacific ocean .
a territory of australia which includes a group of small and mostly uninhabited tropical islands and reefs in the coral sea ,  northeast of queensland ,  australia .
a county located in the commonwealth of massachusetts ,  consisting of cape cod and associated islands .
a landlocked country that is located approximately in the center of asia .
a country in eastern europe ,  east of poland and north of ukraine .
a country located in southeastern asia ,  bordering the gulf of thailand ,  between thailand ,  vietnam ,  and laos .
a country in central asia .
country in europe ,  between the adriatic sea and serbia .
a republic of southeast asia ,  northwest of thailand ,  long familiar as burma .
a semi - autonomous territory composed of an archipelago in the northeastern caribbean ,  east of the dominican republic and west of the virgin islands ,  approximately 2 , 000 km off the coast of florida  ( the nearest of the mainland united states )  .
a group of 4 , 195 small islands and other landmasses between the atlantic ocean and the caribbean sea .
an arm - shaped peninsula nearly coextensive with barnstable county ,  massachusetts and forming the easternmost portion of the state of massachusetts ,  in the northeastern united states .
one of the eight federal districts of russia .
a country in east - central asia .
a marginal sea of the western pacific ocean .
a federal subject of russia located in the north caucasus ,  and within 100 kilometres  ( 62 miles )  of the caspian sea .
a metropolitan area in canada .
an island in extreme southwestern quebec ,  canada ,  is located at the confluence of the saint lawrence and ottawa rivers .
a municipality in the arrondissement of brussels .
the largest city in canada and is the provincial capital of ontario .
one of the administrative regions of quebec ,  canada .
the second - largest city in canada and the largest city in the province of quebec .
one of the administrative regions of the canadian province of quebec .
a city in broward county ,  florida ,  united states .
a town located at the extreme tip of cape cod in barnstable county ,  massachusetts ,  united states .
a country in central america ,  bordering the north pacific ocean ,  between guatemala and honduras .
a group of islands off the northwest coast of continental europe that include the islands of great britain and ireland ,  and over six thousand smaller islands .
a waterfront city in solano county ,  california ,  located in the north bay subregion of the san francisco bay area .
an area which has similar or shared biological characteristics throughout ,  such as similar plant and animal life .
any of various areas recognized primarily for their distinctive plant life .
any of various floristic provinces part of armen takhtajan's  ( 1978 ,  1986 )  regionalization which includes thirty - five regions subdivided into 152 floristic provinces .
a biogeographic realm which includes the tropical terrestrial ecoregions of the americas and the entire south american temperate zone .
a region of the americas that consists of the caribbean sea ,  its islands  ( some surrounded by the caribbean sea and some bordering both the caribbean sea and the north atlantic ocean )  and the surrounding coasts .
an administrative region that comprises the sydney central business district and the surrounding inner west and inner city suburbs of the greater metropolitan area of sydney ,  australia .
a county in the state of california .
a county located in the state of florida .
the total process by which organisms produce offspring .
the union or introduction of genetic information from compatible mating types that results in a genetically different individual .
a chromosome involved in sex determination .
the sex chromosome present in females of species in which the female is the heterogametic sex ;  generally ,  the sex chromosome that pairs with the z chromosome in the heterogametic sex .
the sex chromosome present in both sexes of species in which the male is the heterogametic sex .
the sex chromosome present in males of species in which the male is the heterogametic sex ;  generally ,  the sex chromosome that pairs with the x chromosome in the heterogametic sex .
the sex chromosome present in both sexes of species in which the female is the heterogametic sex .
any mating - type specific process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
a positive regulation of transcription from rna polymerase ii promoter that results in positive regulation of mating type switching .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mating type switching by stopping ,  preventing ,  or reducing the frequency ,  rate or extent of transcription from an rna polymerase ii promoter .
the developmental growth process in which an oocyte irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an oocyte to attain its fully functional state .
a behavioral interaction between organisms in which one organism has the intention of inflicting physical damage on another individual .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
the appearance of immunoglobulin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system .
cardinal cell part which is demarcated from other cell parts by predominantly bona fide anatomical surfaces .
the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
organelle part which consists of nucleotides arranged linearly into three regions ,  dna replication origin ,  centromere and telomere .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an immature germ cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure  ( gamete )  .
the process of formation of spermatozoa ,  including spermatocytogenesis and spermiogenesis .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the resolution of the male germline syncytium or cyst into individual gametes by packaging each spermatid into its own plasma membrane .
generation of the female gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a male gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the production of yolk .yolk is a mixture of materials used for embryonic nutrition .
the synthesis ,  deposition ,  and organization of the materials in a cell of an ovary ;  where the cell can then undergo meiosis and form an ovum .
the introduction of semen or sperm into the genital tract of a female .
the union of male and female gametes to form a zygote .
any process that establishes and transmits the specification of sexual status of an individual organism .
any process that establishes and transmits the specification of mating type upon an individual .
any mating - type specific process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular dna - templated transcription .
the sex determination process that results in the initial specification of sexual status of an individual organism .
the transmission of information about sexual status from the initial ,  general ,  determination to signals specific to the soma .
the transmission of information about sexual status ,  from the initial general determination ,  to signals specific to the germ - line .
the sex determination processes that take place after the initial transmission of the sexual phenotype to specific information pathways .
the events determining the somatic sexual phenotype after the initial transmission of that phenotype to soma - specific information pathways .
the events determining the germ - line sexual phenotype after the initial transmission of that phenotype to germ - line - specific information pathways .
the set of physiological processes that allow an embryo or foetus to develop within the body of an animal .
the reproductive process in which the parent is separated from its offspring either by giving birth to live young or by laying eggs .
the process by which waste matter is discharged from the body .
the controlled release of a fluid by a cell or tissue in an animal .
the regulated release of milk from the mammary glands and the period of time that a mother lactates to feed her young .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the actions or reactions of an object or organism ,  usually in relation to the environment or surrounding world of stimuli .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating ,  or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the pairwise union of individuals for the purpose of sexual reproduction ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of attracting sexual partners .
the act of sexual union between male and female ,  involving the transfer of sperm .
behavior associated with the intake of food .
an activity occurring within an organism ,  between organisms or among organisms and the mechanisms underlying such events .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
the union of gametes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
the directed movement of hormones into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that takes place on the cellular level ,  though not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized immature germ cell acquires the specialized features of a mature female gamete .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotype in an organism's germ line .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotypes in an organism's soma .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotype in a female organism's germ line .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotype in a male organism's germ line .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotypes in a female organism's soma .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotypes in a male organism's soma .
sexual reproduction is a form of reproduction where two gametes fuse together .
asexual reproduction is a type of reproduction by which offspring arise from a single organism ,  and inherit the genes of that parent only ;  it does not involve the fusion of gametes ,  and almost never changes the number of chromosomes .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
the progression of physiological phases ,  occurring in the endometrium during the menstrual cycle that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
a process involved in the sexual cycle seen in females ,  often with physiologic changes in the endometrium that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
a reproductive process that is a step in the formation and maturation of an ovum or female gamete from a primordial female germ cell .
the specification of female sex of an individual organism .
the specification of male sex of an individual organism .
the expulsion of feces from the rectum .
construction of the eggshell ,  a product of the somatic follicle cell epithelium and a structure that supports the egg in a hostile environment ,  minimizing water loss whilst allowing gas exchanges essential for embryonic respiration .
the release of a mature ovum / oocyte from an ovary .
a chromosome not involved in sex determination .
the regulated release of a gonadotropin ,  any hormone that stimulates the gonads ,  especially follicle - stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a process that promotes the formation of new ,  more mature ,  or differentiated tissues ,  organs ,  or organ systems .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two single - celled organisms .
the process in which the anatomical structures of genitalia are generated and organized .
behavior directed towards society ,  or taking place between members of the same species .
construction of an egg coat ,  a specialized extracellular matrix that surrounds the ovum of animals .
gradual increase in the number ,  the size ,  and the complexity of cells of an individual .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotype in the germ line of a hermaphrodite .
the determination of female sex and sexual phenotype in the germ - line of the hermaphrodite .
the determination of sex and sexual phenotypes in a hermaphroditic organism's soma .
promotion of male sex and sexual phenotypes in the hermaphroditic nematode soma .
promotion of female sex and sexual phenotypes in the hermaphroditic soma .
the determination of male sex and sexual phenotype in the germ - line of the hermaphrodite .
the beginning of development of the breasts in the female .
the first menstrual cycle marked by the initiation of menstruation .
cessation of menstruation ,  occurring in  ( e .g . ) 
the type of sexual cycle seen in females ,  often with physiologic changes in the endometrium that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
female behaviors associated with the care and rearing of offspring .
male behaviors associated with the care and rearing offspring .
the expulsion of seminal fluid ,  thick white fluid containing spermatozoa ,  from the male genital tract .
the state of the penis when the erectile tissue becomes filled or swollen  ( tumid )  with blood and causes the penis to become rigid and elevated .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction involving another organism of the same or different species .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level which involves another organism of the same or different species .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
the period of cyclic physiological and behavior changes in non - primate female mammals that exhibit estrus .
the cyclic cellular ,  histological ,  and functional changes in the ovary during the menstrual cycle in response to the changing endocrine environment .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
any mating - type specific process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of cellular dna - templated transcription .
any mating - type specific process that activates or increases the rate of cellular dna - templated transcription .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary female sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary male sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the regulated release of hormones ,  substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
formation of a group of interconnected cells derived from a single female gonial founder cell .
generation of the male gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a female gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the structural and functional changes by which spermatozoa become capable of oocyte fertilization .
the complete process of formation and maturation of an ovum or female gamete from a primordial female germ cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an oocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to its specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process in which the structures of an oocyte are generated and organized .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
a process that promotes the formation of new ,  more mature ,  or differentiated tissues ,  organs ,  or organ systems .
a biological function or activity involving the cells or tissue components of the nervous system .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process in which an organism has a behavioral effect on another organism of the same or different species .
an involuntary movement or exercise of function in a part ,  excited in response to a stimulus applied to the periphery and transmitted to the brain or spinal cord .
the regulation of body fluids process in which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body .
the progression of physiological phases ,  occurring in the endometrium during the estrous cycle that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
a phase of the estrous cycles that follows metestrus .
a phase of the estrous cycle that precedes estrus .
the period in the estrous cycle associated with maximum sexual receptivity and fertility in non - primate female mammals .
the period following estrus during which the phenomena of estrus subside in those animals in which pregnancy or pseudopregnancy does not occur .
a reproductive behavior in which a parent cares for and rears offspring .
the regulated release of a hormone into the circulatory system .
the specific neuromuscular movement of a single organism in response to external or internal stimuli .
the behavior in which an organism produces sounds by a mechanism involving its respiratory system .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a sperm cell .
a sex chromosome that has been inactivated .
a sex chromosome that has not been inactivated .
a day that is an exact number of years  ( to the day )  since a given significant event occurred .
a day dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain cause and / or condition .
a day which is dedicated in memory of someone or something .
the anniversary of the day on which someone is born .
a day dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain civil cause and / or condition .
a day declared free from work by the state or government .
a marriage between partners of differing sexual orientations .
a broad genre encompassing fiction with certain elements that do not exist in the real world ,  often in the context of supernatural ,  futuristic or other imaginative themes .
suicides organized by the particular method utilized .
the act of committing suicide where the method is hanging .
surgical removal or artificial destruction of gonads accomplished by oneself .
a month which is dedicated in memory of someone or something .
a week dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain cause and / or condition .
a week dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain civil cause and / or condition .
a week dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain health - related cause and / or condition .
a transgender person who has hiv .
a cisgender person who has hiv .
any intervention which utilizes androgens .
any intervention which utilizes estrogens .
a child who is gender nonconforming .
any process involving the economy ,  economics ,  or finances .
a recurrent and patterned process that involves the interactions or responses of individuals to one another which have attained stability .
any series of calculations performed by mathematical methods .
a child who is transgender or otherwise gender nonconforming .
a transgender woman who has hiv .
an article which is an academic work and is published ,  or will be published ,  in an academic or scholarly journal .
an academic or scholarly journal is a periodical publication in which scholarship relating to a particular academic discipline is published .
a transgender man who has hiv .
one who advocates for social justice .
suicides as they occur among adult transgender people .
the anniversary of the day on which someone died .
the anniversary of the day on which someone was married .
the sequence of events involved in the process of gametogenesis .
any of various reproductive strategies utilized by animals .
mode of reproduction in which the zygotes develop in the female's oviducts ,  but find their nutrients from other tissues ,  whether skin or glandular tissue ,  oophagy ,  or adelphophagy  ( intra - uterine cannibalism in some sharks or in the black salamander salamandra atra )  .
mode of reproduction in which nutrients are provided by the female ,  often through a placenta ,  as in mammals  ( except for marsupials and monotremes )  .
mode of reproduction in which fertilization is external ,  with the oocytes being released into the environment and fertilized outside the female's body by the male .
suicides as they occur among young transgender people .
the process by which an organism becomes pregnant .
the fertilization of two or more ova by sperm from separate acts of sexual intercourse ,  which can lead to twins with different fathers .
impregnation in addition to a prior impregnation .
a transgender person who is incarcerated ,  typically in a prison .
a non - specialized physician .
physician trained in medical specialty ;  that is ,  a branch of medical practice that is focused on a defined group of patients ,  diseases ,  skills ,  or philosophy .
a physician who specializes in childbirth .
surgeon trained in a specific surgical specialty ;  that is ,  a branch of surgical practice that is focused on a defined group of patients ,  diseases ,  skills ,  or philosophy .
a surgeon specializing in otorhinolaryngology ;  that is ,  conditions of the ear ,  nose ,  and throat  ( ent )  and related structures of the head and neck .
a non - specialized surgeon .
sexual repression is a state in which a person is prevented from expressing their own sexuality .
a drug adverse event that is caused by a drug administration .
a transgender person who is latinx .
dysphoria associated with the feeling that one's body is of the wrong species .
social communication is the use of language in social contexts .
external manifestation of gender identity .
usage of masculine ,  feminine ,  other gendered ,  ungendered ,  and ambiguous clothing ,  behavior ,  posture ,  mannerisms ,  speech patterns ,  and activites ,  among other things .
usage of clothing ,  behavior ,  posture ,  mannerisms ,  speech patterns ,  and activites ,  among other things ,  to indicate a female gender identity or gender role .
usage of clothing ,  behavior ,  posture ,  mannerisms ,  speech patterns ,  and activites ,  among other things ,  to indicate a male gender identity or gender role .
any detectable and heritable change in the genetic material that causes a change in the genotype and which is transmitted to daughter cells and to succeeding generations .
a reduced ability to secrete gonadotropins ,  which are protein hormones secreted by gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary gland ,  including the hormones follitropin  ( fsh )  and luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
a parent of a transgender person .
the determination of an infant's gender shortly after birth .
the determination of an infant's sex shortly after birth .
biological sex is the quality of a biological organism based on reproductive function or organs .
sex as determined by genotypic qualities ,  namely chromosomal or genetic factors .
sex as determined by phenotypic qualities ,  namely primary and / or secondary sex characteristics .
a parent of an lgbtqia +  person .
the establishment of sex by a non - genetic cue ,  such as nutrient availability ,  experienced within a discrete period after conception .
establishment of sex at conception by genetic factors such as sex chromosomes .
any of various surgeries which aim to masculinize the chest region .
an intersex person with a male gender identity .
an intersex person with a female gender identity .
sex as determined by the presence of particular sex chromosomes or combinations of sex chromosomes ,  without regard to phenotypic manifestations .
sex as determined by the presence and / or activation of particular genes or combinations of genes ,  without regard to phenotypic manifestations .
a biological system that determines the development of sexual characteristics in an organism .
a system that determines the sex of offspring among most arachnids ,  almost all apterygote and paleopteran insects ,  most exoptergote insects ,  and some nematodes ,  crustaceans ,  gastropod molluscs ,  and bony fish .
the sex - determination system found in humans ,  most other mammals ,  some insects  ( drosophila )  ,  some snakes ,  and some plants  ( ginkgo )  .
a system that determines the sex of offspring in several moths .
a chromosomal system that determines the sex of offspring in birds ,  some fish and crustaceans such as the giant river prawn ,  some insects  ( including butterflies and moths )  ,  and some reptiles ,  including komodo dragons .
a type of environmental sex determination in which the temperatures experienced during embryonic / larval development determine the sex of the offspring .
a sex - determination system in which males develop from unfertilized eggs and are haploid ,  and females develop from fertilized eggs and are diploid .
a gender  ( or gender marker )  assigned by any of various persons or organizations other than an individual themselves ;  such a term is usually shortened from "assigned gender at birth"  ( assigned gender at birth is preferrable in these situations for the sake of specificity )  .
an assignment of a female gender shortly after birth .
an assignment of a male gender shortly after birth .
the formation ,  practice ,  evolution ,  and representation of notions associated with gender .
mastectomy performed for the purposes of masculinization ,  especially for transgender men and transmasculine persons .
an umbrella term often used in medical literature to include transgender persons and gender nonconforming people who may or may not be transgender .
referring to someone whose behavior ,  appearance ,  and / or identity does not conform to prevalent social and / or cultural expectations of gender .
an umbrella term often used in research to covered genderqueer and gender nonbinary identities ,  as well as gender nonconforming persons .
an individual who identifies as transgender .
genderqueer is a catch - all category for gender identities that are not exclusively masculine or feminine‍ -  - identities which are outside the gender binary and cisnormativity .
either ,  a specific gender identity which is not male or female ;  or ,  more broadly ,  an umbrella term for gender identities not considered male or female .
a psychiatric action or administration of psychiatric therapeutic agents to produce an effect that is intended to alter or stop a pathologic process  ( or a process considered pathologic in nature )  .
an abbreviation consisting of initial letters pronounced separately .
an abbreviation formed from the initial letters of other words and pronounced as a word .
the class of all members of a set that are in a given equivalence relation .
slang is language  ( words ,  phrases ,  and usages )  of an informal register that members of special groups like teenagers ,  musicians ,  or criminals favor  ( over a standard language )  in order to establish group identity ,  exclude outsiders ,  or both .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the lgbtq community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the lesbian community .
slang that is specify to ,  or primarily used within ,  the gay  ( male )  community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the bisexual community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the transgender community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the intersex community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the asexual community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the transmasculine community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the transfeminine community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the nonbinary community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the bisexual male community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the bisexual female community .
sexual slang is a set of linguistic terms and phrases used to refer to sexual organs ,  processes ,  and activities .
refers to various kinds of slang used by different people on the internet .
slang related to the practice of polyamory or utilized by its participants .
a person with an intersex condition or who has had or has been diagnosed with an intersex condition .
the physical ,  tangible parts or components of a computer ,  such as the cabinet ,  central processing unit ,  monitor ,  keyboard ,  computer data storage ,  graphics card ,  sound card ,  speakers and motherboard .
a digital telecommunications network which allows nodes to share resources .
the principal communications protocol in the internet protocol suite for relaying datagrams across network boundaries .
the conceptual model and set of communications protocols used in the internet and similar computer networks .
an abstraction layer that specifies the shared communications protocols and interface methods used by hosts in a communications network .
a conceptual division of methods in the layered architecture of protocols in the network stack in the internet protocol suite and the osi model .
a group of internetworking methods ,  protocols ,  and specifications in the internet protocol suite that are used to transport network packets from the originating host across network boundaries ,  if necessary ,  to the destination host specified by an ip address .
an application protocol for distributed ,  collaborative ,  hypermedia information systems .
an application protocol used for transporting usenet news articles  ( netnews )  between news servers and for reading and posting articles by end user client applications .
an application layer protocol that facilitates communication in the form of text .
a communication protocol for electronic mail transmission .
any number of services provided using data transferred from internet servers to a computer .
an organization that provides services for accessing ,  using ,  or participating in the internet .
computer networks assigned particular geographic scopes or classified by scale of area .
a computer network that interconnects computers within a limited area such as a residence ,  school ,  laboratory ,  university campus or office building .
a telecommunications network that extends over a large geographical area for the primary purpose of computer networking .
an early packet - switching network and the first network to implement the tcp / ip protocol suite .
a worldwide distributed discussion system available on computers .
a type of online chat that offers real - time text transmission over the internet .
a usenet newsgroup is a repository usually within the usenet system ,  for messages posted from many users in different locations using the internet .
the organization system for usenet newsgroups ,  theoretically making it simpler to find related groups .
websites related to persons having lgbtq identites or other subjects of interest to or related to the lgbtq community .
websites related to asexual people or other subjects of interest to or related to the asexual community .
websites related to bisexual persons or other subjects of interest to or related to the bisexual community .
websites related to gay men or other subjects of interest to or related to the gay male community .
websites related to intersex people or other subjects of interest to or related to the intersex community .
websites related to transgender persons or other subjects of interest to or related to the transgender community .
websites related to lesbians or other subjects of interest to or related to the lesbian community .
websites related to transgender women or other subjects of interest to or related to the transfeminine community .
websites related to transgender men or other subjects of interest to or related to the transmasculine community .
websites related to nonbinary persons or other subjects of interest to or related to the nonbinary community .
a person or thing that takes an active role or produces a specified effect .
subgroup within a community which has different national or cultural traditions from the majority group .
individuals including lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  transgender ,  queer ,  intersex ,  gender non - conforming people ,  and other populations whose sexual orientation or gender identity and reproductive development is considered outside cultural ,  societal ,  or physiological norms .
an organized body of people with a particular purpose ,  especially a business ,  society ,  association ,  etc .
a loosely defined grouping of lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  transgender ,  lgbtq organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of lesbian persons ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of gay men ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of bisexual persons ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of transgender persons ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of intersex persons ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of asexual persons ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a loosely defined grouping of persons who practice bdsm activities .
a community ,  usually a small town or city ,  that is composed mostly of residents ,  as opposed to commercial businesses and / or industrial facilities ,  all three of which are considered to be the three main types of occupants of the typical community .
a planned residential community designed from the start to have a high degree of social cohesion and teamwork .
intentional communities organized by women to empower women .
a group of people within a culture that differentiates itself from the parent culture to which it belongs ,  often maintaining some of its founding principles .
any of various cultures associated with an ethnic group or groups and / or a racial category or categories .
any of various subcultures connected to or evolving from music in any of its forms .
any of various cultures related to sexual practices ,  beliefs ,  and / or identities and / or gender identifications .
culture shared by lgbtqia +  individuals  ( a selection of gender and sexual minorities )  ,  including works by lgbtqia +  people  ( contemporary and historical )  ,  understandings of lgbtqia +  social movements ,  and identification with such individuals ,  among other things .
culture specific to the lesbian community and lesbians .
culture specific to the gay male community and gay men .
culture specific to the bisexual community and bisexual people .
therapeutic approach that may employ classical conditioning ,  operant learning techniques ,  or other behavioral techniques ,  in an attempt to eliminate or modify problem behavior ,  addressing itself primarily to the client's overt behavior ,  as opposed to thoughts ,  feelings ,  or other cognitive processes .
culture specific to the intersex community and intersex people .
culture specific to the asexual community and asexual people .
a diverse array of ideologies ,  fashion ,  and other forms of expression ,  visual art ,  dance ,  literature and film largely characterized by anti - establishment views and the promotion of individual freedom ,  centred on a loud ,  aggressive genre of rock music called punk rock .
a cultural and social movement that began in the mid - 1980s as an offshoot of the punk subculture .
any of various subcultures within the lgbtq community .
an underground lgbtq subculture that originated in the united states ,  in which people "walk"  ( i .e . ,  compete )  for trophies ,  prizes ,  and glory at events known as balls .
lgbtq culture specific to the black community and persons within those communities .
lgbtq culture specific to the hispanic and latinx community and persons within those communities .
lgbtq culture specific to the african american community and persons within those communities .
lgbtq culture specific to the african american lesbian community and persons within those communities .
lgbtq culture specific to the african american gay male community and persons within those communities .
lgbtq culture specific to the african - american transgender community and persons within those communities .
lgbtq culture specific to the hispanic and latinx american community and persons within those communities .
cultures based around or engaging in any of various sexual fetishes .
practices and styles of dress organized around sexual activities that involve leather garments ,  such as leather jackets ,  vests ,  boots ,  chaps ,  harnesses ,  or other items .
culture formed around bdsm practices .
practices and styles of dress organized around sexual activities that involve latex garments .
culture as it relates to those who practice polyamory .
culture based around or in reference to particular facets of sexuality .
culture based on gender identity and / or common gender identification .
culture practiced by men or otherwise related to manhood .
culture practiced by women or otherwise related to womanhood .
culture based upon sexual orientation .
culture specific to the bisexual male community and bisexual men .
culture specific to the bisexual female community and bisexual women .
culture based around gender expression or a specific kind of gender expression .
aversion therapy is a form of psychological treatment in which the patient is exposed to a stimulus while simultaneously being subjected to some form of discomfort .
culture specific to the transfeminine community and transgender women .
culture specific to the transmasculine community and transgender men .
culture specific to the nonbinary community and nonbinary people .
any of various cultures related to black racial or ethnic identification .
refers to the contributions of african americans to the culture of the united states ,  either as part of or distinct from mainstream american culture .
refers to the contributions of black british people to the culture of great britian ,  either as part of or distinct from mainstream british culture .
refers to the contributions of black canadian people to the culture of canada ,  either as part of or distinct from mainstream canadian culture .
culture specific to the hispanic and latinx community and persons within those communities .
american culture specific to the hispanic and latinx community and persons within those communities .
culture as it relates to the transgender lesbian community or to transgender lesbians .
symbols used by or used to represent members of the lgbtq community .
symbols used by or used to represent members of the gay male community .
symbols used by or used to represent members of the lesbian community .
symbols used by or used to represent members of the bisexual community .
symbols used by or used to represent members of the transgender community .
symbols used by or used to represent members of the intersex community .
symbols used by or used to represent members of the asexual community .
any of various flags used to represent the lgbtq community or any of its subcommunities .
any of various symbols relating to gender and / or sexuality .
any of various symbols relating to sexuality .
a gender symbol is a pictogram or glyph used to represent either biological sex or sociological gender in either biology ,  medicine ,  genealogy or selective breeding ,  or in sociology ,  gender politics ,  lgbtq subculture and identity politics .
any of various symbols related to masculinity or male genitalia ,  especially the penis .
any of various symbols related to femininity or female genitalia ,  especially the vagina .
an ideogram that conveys its meaning through its pictorial resemblance to a physical object .
a pictogram used to represent a given phenotypic sex or gender identity ,  depending on context .
an ideogram used to represent a given phenotypic sex or gender identity ,  depending on context .
flags used by or used to represent members of the lesbian community .
flags used by or used to represent members of the gay male community .
flags used by or used to represent members of the bisexual community .
flags used by or used to represent members of the transgender community .
flags used by or used to represent members of the intersex community .
flags used by or used to represent members of the asexual community .
flags used by or used to represent members of the pansexual community .
the work of objectively analyzing and describing how language is actually used  ( or how it was used in the past )  by a group of people in a speech community .
the branch of linguistics which inquires into the nature of language itself and seeks to answer fundamental questions as to what language is ;  how it works ;  how universal grammar  ( ug )  as a domain - specific mental organ operates ,  if it exists at all ;  what are its unique properties ;  how does language relate to other cognitive processes ,  etc .
an interdisciplinary field which identifies ,  investigates ,  and offers solutions to language - related real - life problems .
the study of the history of words .
the descriptive study of the effect of any and all aspects of society ,  including cultural norms ,  expectations ,  and context ,  on the way language is used ,  and society's effect on language .
the study of language revolving around people identifying as gay ,  lesbian ,  bisexual ,  transgender ,  and queer  ( lgbtq )  .
the study of language revolving around people identifying as transgender .
the jargon or language of a group ,  often employed to exclude or mislead people outside the group .
a secretive language form used by a subculture .
a technical terminology unique to a particular subject .
a secret language used by various groups  ( e .g . ,  schoolmates ,  outlaws ,  colleagues ,  gay people among many others )  to prevent outsiders from understanding their conversations .
an argot used specifically by people deemed criminals .
an argot used specifically by gay people .
therapy that emphasizes lifelong patterns ,  affective change techniques ,  and the therapeutic relationship .
a person whose identity is female ,  based on societal and cultural conceptualizations of being female ,  usually  ( but not always )  reflected by specific anatomical variations ,  chromosome combinations ,  and / or sex hormones .
a person whose identity is male ,  based on societal and cultural conceptualizations of being male ,  usually  ( but not always )  reflected by specific anatomical variations ,  chromosome combinations ,  and / or sex hormones .
a cisgender man .
a man who was assigned female at birth .
someone with a male gender identity who is attracted to those with female gender identities .
someone with a male gender identity who is attracted to those with male gender identities .
a man who identifies as bisexual .
male persons who engage in sexual activity with members of the same sex ,  regardless of how they identify themselves .
a transgender person with a male gender identity who is attracted to others with male gender identities .
a man who identifies as pansexual .
women who engage in sexual activities with other women ,  whether or not they identify themselves as lesbian ,  bisexual ,  heterosexual ,  or dispense with sexual identification altogether .
a woman who identifies as bisexual .
someone with a female gender identity who is attracted to those with female gender identities ,  or attraction to those identifying within a feminine gender - area  ( including transfeminine persons ,  femme nonbinary people ,  nonbinary women ,  demigirls ,  etc .
a woman who identifies as pansexual .
someone with a female gender identity who is attracted to those with male gender identities .
a woman who was assigned male at birth .
a cisgender woman .
a transgender person with a female gender identity who is attracted to others with female gender identities .
a person who identifies as asexual .
a person who identifies as bisexual .
a cisgender / cissexual person: one whose gender matches his or her biological sex .
a person who is attracted to people of gender identities other than their own ,  typically used to refer to those with female gender identities who are attracted to those with male gender identities ,  or vice versa .
a person who identifies as pansexual .
aversive therapy which pairs behavior with electric shocks of mild to higher intensities .
person with a transfeminine gender identity .
person with a transmasculine gender identity .
a person whose gender identity is not exclusively male or female ;  a person having a gender identity which is outside of the gender binary  ( i .e .
a woman who identifies as asexual .
a man who identifies as asexual .
a person who is attracted solely or primarily to others of the same gender  ( or sex ,  depending on precise usage )  ,  i .e .
a person who identifies as genderqueer .
persons who are genderqueer ,  identify as nonbinary ,  or are otherwise gender nonconforming .
persons who are transgender or gender nonconforming .
a person who does non conform to expected or enforced gender roles ,  identities ,  and / or expressions .
a person who identifies as agender .
a person who identifies as an androgyne .
a person who identifies as bigender .
a person who identifies as genderfluid .
a person who identifies as demigender .
a person who identifies as neutrois .
a person who identifies as x - gender .
someone whose gender identity is only partly male ,  regardless of their assigned gender at birth .
a person having a gender identity which is partially ,  but not wholly ,  female or feminine ,  whatever their assigned gender at birth .
totality of normal and abnormal ,  conscious and unconscious ,  overt and covert sensations ,  thoughts ,  feelings ,  and actions related to sexual organs and other erotogenic zones ,  including goals and techniques .
the sexual functions ,  activities ,  attitudes ,  and orientations of an individual .
the sexual functions ,  activities ,  attitudes ,  and orientations of an individual animal .
the sexual functions and activities observed in plants .
the sexual functions ,  activities ,  attitudes ,  and orientations of an individual bird .
the sexual functions ,  activities ,  attitudes ,  and orientations of an individual mammal .
the sexual functions ,  activities ,  attitudes ,  and orientations of an individual human being .
sexual behavior ,  both reproductively and non - reproductively motivated ,  observed in members of the kingdom animalia .
the sexual functions ,  activities ,  attitudes ,  and orientations of an individual primate .
sexual behavior ,  both reproductively and non - reproductively motivated ,  observed in members of the class mammalia .
sexual behavior ,  both reproductively and non - reproductively motivated ,  observed in primates .
sexual behavior ,  both reproductively and non - reproductively motivated ,  observed in humans .
the treatment of mental conditions by physical means rather than psychotherapy .
the observable response a mammal makes to any situation .
the observable response a primate makes to any situation .
the observable response a human makes to any situation .
human behaviors related to or involving clothing .
behaviors generally considered acceptable ,  appropriate ,  or desirable for people based on their actual or perceived gender or sex .
behavior related to ascribed gender roles .
convulsions induced in order to treat mental conditions .
subjects exhibit greater than the normal level of domineering ,  assertive posturing and / or hostile physical action toward partners while mating .
a social behavior that can potentially cause or threaten physical or emotional harm .
an aggressive social behavior that involves one bullying another .
any action that results in intimidation ,  harm ,  damage ,  or destruction of someone or something .
social interactions that occur between two or more individual animals ,  usually of the same species .
social behaviors in mammals .
social behaviors in primates .
social behaviors in humans .
behavior which is abusive or considered abuse .
abusive behavior in which the abuser feels no concern about their victim ( s )  .
actions that harm or lack consideration for the well - being of others .
electrically induced convulsions primarily used in the treatment of severe affective disorders and schizophrenia .
anatomical structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of the class mammalia .
anatomical structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of the order primates .
electroconvulsive therapy which is administered against a person's will or otherwise without their consent .
digestive system in mammals .
digestive system in primates .
digestive system in humans .
a reproductive organ which serves to provide male gametes  ( sperm )  .
the penis ,  as observed in mammals .
the penis ,  as observed in select vertebrate species .
the penis ,  as observed in primates .
the penis ,  as observed in humans .
a vital record that documents the birth of a child .
medical patients who are lgbtqia +  .
the genital system that creates ,  maintains ,  or otherwise harbors female gametes  ( oocytes ,  eggs )  .
the genital system that creates ,  maintains ,  or otherwise harbors male gametes  ( spermatozoa ,  sperm )  .
male genital systems in vertebrates .
male genital systems in mammals .
male genital systems in primates .
male genital systems in humans .
female genital systems in vertebrates .
female genital systems in mammals .
female genital systems in primates .
female genital systems in humans .
the surface of the ovary close to the organ's midline .
the surface of the ovary further from the organ's midline .
the opening located within the uterus at the uterotubal junction and accessible via hysteroscopy .
a breast feminized due to hormones and / or surgery in a transgender woman .
a breast masculinized due to surgery and / or hormones in a transgender man .
a breast virilized in a cisgender man without external hormones and / or surgery .
a breast feminized in a cisgender woman without external hormones and / or surgery .
the body of a transgender person ,  typically modified by external hormone or surgery administration ,  although this may not always be the case .
the body of a cisgender person ,  typically unmodified by external hormone or surgery administration ,  although this may not always be the case .
the body of a human which has undergone some form of feminization .
the body of a human which has undergone some form of virilization .
a human body which has undergone virilization typically without external hormone administration and / or surgery .
a human body which has undergone feminization typically without external hormone administration and / or surgery .
a human body which has undergone feminization typically with external hormone administration and / or surgery .
a human body which has undergone virilization typically with external hormone administration and / or surgery .
a state of being related to an organism's health .
any kind of illness or circumstance which requires medical monitoring .
any condition that impairs the normal functioning of the body .
the patient's personal experience of their disease .
a functional abnormality or disturbance .
a condition related to one's mental health and / or well - being ;  or mental state ,  generally .
any of various health conditions or states related to pregnancy .
any of various conditions related to one's sexual health .
information content entity that is an empirical result found to be meaningful to one or more person ( s )  or a community ,  such that it can be interpreted by them in ways that they value ,  and which arises from a systematic analytic and / or deliberative process of investigation and study of other information content entities ,  that are often ,  but not exclusively other data item ( s )  ,  thereby accounting for those other information content entities .
a knowledge content entity comprised of a data item about some thing .
objective evidence of disease perceptible to the examining healthcare provider .
subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient .
biological entity which consists of a maximum number of some instances of discontinuous members of the same class .
a syndrome is composed of a set of several clinically recognizable features ,  signs  ( observed by someone other than the patient )  ,  symptoms  ( reported by the patient )  ,  phenomena or characteristics that often occur together .
a behavioral or mental pattern that causes significant distress or impairment of personal functioning .
a medical condition that impairs normal functioning of bodily processes that remains largely undetected under examination ,  dissection or even under a microscope .
a classification ised in educational settings that allows educational institutions to provide special education and related services to students who have displayed poor social and / or academic progress ;  any of various disorders considered as falling under this classification .
any of various disorders with primary symptoms affecting emotional state or status .
any of various diseases affecting the genitourinary system .
any of various diseases affecting the genital system .
clinical entity defined by a set of morphological abnormalities resulting from a developmental anomaly involving more than one morphogenetic field .
a syndrome characterized by the presence of congenital abnormalities that affect more than one organ or system .
a term that refers to the classification of a disorder according to the anatomic site that is involved in the pathologic process .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the genital system .
a stage of human development following early childhood and preceding adolescence .
the period of development immediately prior to the onset of puberty when changes occur that lead to sexual maturity .
a infectious disease caused by a virus of the family retroviridae .
a infectious disease caused by a virus of the genus lentivirus .
human immunodeficiency virus .a non - taxonomic and historical term referring to any of two species ,  specifically hiv - 1 and / or hiv - 2 .
infection where the agent is a retrovirus .
infection where the agent is a lentivirus .
infection where hiv is the agent ;  includes the spectrum of human immunodeficiency virus infections that range from asymptomatic seropositivity ,  thru aids - related complex  ( arc )  ,  to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome  ( aids )  .
a syndrome with primarily psychiatric signs and / or symptoms .
a syndrome in which the underlying genetic cause is known .
syndromes primarily affecting the immunological system .
syndromes in which there is a deficiency or defect in the mechanisms of immunity ,  either cellular or humoral .
an acquired defect of cellular immunity associated with infection by the human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  ,  a cd4 - positive t - lymphocyte count under 200 cells / microliter or less than 14% of total lymphocytes ,  and increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections and malignant neoplasms .
infection where the agent is the hiv - 1 virus .
infection where the agent is the hiv - 2 virus .
an hiv infection which is symptomatic in nature .
diseases transmitted or propagated by sexual conduct .
viral diseases transmitted or propagated by sexual conduct .
bacterial diseases transmitted or propagated by sexual conduct .
an infection in which transmission is facilitated via sexual contact .
bacterial infections organized by the primary area of infection .
bacterial infections primarily affecting the genitourinary system .
bacterial infections primarily affecting the genitalia .
bacterial infections primarily affecting the urinary tract .
infections with bacteria of the order spirochaetales .
a disease caused by a spirochetal infection .
a disease caused by a treponemal infection .
syphilis acquired non - congenitally ,  usually through sexually transmitted infection .
syphilis beyond the tertiary stage ;  syphilis which had entered the stage of fulminant anergic necrotic encephalitis .
neurosyphilis of the late quaternary stage .
a stage of syphilis that occurs fifteen to thirty years after the initial infection ;  it can include gumma formation and cardiovascular or central nervous system involvement  ( neurosyphilis )  .
infection of the brain or spinal cord by treponema pallidum .
a severe neuropsychiatric disorder ,  classified as an organic mental disorder and caused by the chronic meningoencephalitis that leads to cerebral atrophy in late - stage syphilis .
a disease by infectious agent that results in infection ,  has material basis in gram - negative bacteria .
a disease by infectious agent that results in infection ,  has material basis in gram - positive bacteria .
a infectious disease caused by a virus of the family herpesviridae .
infection where the agent is a herpesvirus .
a infectious disease caused by a virus of the subfamily alphaherpesvirinae .
a disease caused by the herpes simplex virus .
herpes simplex virus 1 and 2  ( hsv - 1 and hsv - 2 )  ,  also known by their taxonomical names human alphaherpesvirus 1 and human alphaherpesvirus 2 ,  are two members of the human herpesviridae family ,  a set of viruses that produce viral infections in the majority of humans .
a disease caused by a chlamydial infection .
a calculation from zero or more input values  ( called operands )  to an output value .
a calculation that combines two elements  ( called operands )  to produce another element .
the quality of being unlike or dissimilar .
a measure of difference between the observed value of a variable and some other value ,  often that variable's mean .
a deviation from a rule or from what is regarded as normal ;  an outlier .
abnormalities of one's body either congenital or acquired .
a physical anomaly present at birth .
the alteration of a morphological feature .
an abnormal formation ,  especially an abnormal developmental feature .
any malformation or condition related to malformation which is present at birth ,  regardless of cause .
any malformation that is a part of or affects the urogenital system .
malformations of the genital system  ( genitals ,  gonads ,  etc . ) 
malformations of the urinary system or any of its constituent parts .
malformation of parts of the genital system that are considered female .
malformation of parts of the genital system that are considered male .
malformations of the uterus or any of its constituent parts .
malformations of the vagina or any of its constituent parts .
malformations of the ovary or any of its constituent parts .
malformations of the testicle or any of its constituent parts .
malformations of the penis or any of its constituent parts .
malformations of the scrotum or any of its constituent parts .
alteration of pitch ,  the perceived frequency of a sound or note .
malformations of any part or the entirety of the urinary and / or genital system which are present at birth .
malformations of any part or the entirety of the urinary system which are present at birth .
malformations of any part or the entirety of the genital system which are present at birth .
a person 10 to 13 years of age ;  alternatively defined as being between 9 and 14 years of age .
an encyclopedia accessible through the internet .
any document with audio and / or video components ,  such as a film .
video priarily offered over the internet .
a film that dramatizes the life of a non - fictional or historically - based person or people .
a film that has an erotic quality that causes the creation of sexual feelings ,  as well as a philosophical contemplation concerning the aesthetics of sexual desire ,  sensuality and romantic love .
a film whose elements are nonfictional .
a nonfictional motion picture intended to document some aspect of reality ,  primarily for the purposes of instruction ,  education ,  or maintaining a historical record .
a sex film which does not usually claim any artistic merit .
a film about or otherwise related to a particular subculture or subcultures .
a film with no synchronized recorded sound  ( and in particular ,  no audible dialogue )  .
film pertaining especially to lgbtq persons and / or culture .
film pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
film pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
film pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
film pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
film pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
film pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
a sex film involving gay men which does not usually claim any artistic merit .
a sex film involving lesbians which does not usually claim any artistic merit .
a film focusing on gay men that has an erotic quality that causes the creation of sexual feelings ,  as well as a philosophical contemplation concerning the aesthetics of sexual desire ,  sensuality and romantic love .
a film focusing on lesbians that has an erotic quality that causes the creation of sexual feelings ,  as well as a philosophical contemplation concerning the aesthetics of sexual desire ,  sensuality and romantic love .
romantic love stories recorded in visual media for broadcast in theaters and on tv that focus on passion ,  emotion ,  and the affectionate romantic involvement of the main characters and the journey that their genuinely strong ,  true and pure romantic love takes them through dating ,  courtship or marriage .
a television program that has an erotic quality that causes the creation of sexual feelings ,  as well as a philosophical contemplation concerning the aesthetics of sexual desire ,  sensuality and romantic love .
a television program in which pictures are manipulated to appear as moving images .
a television program whose elements are nonfictional .
a nonfictional television program intended to document some aspect of reality ,  primarily for the purposes of instruction ,  education ,  or maintaining a historical record .
a sex television program which does not usually claim any artistic merit .
television programs in which the main emphasis is on humor .
a television program about or otherwise related to a particular subculture or subcultures .
television programs pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
television programs pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
television programs pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
television programs pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
television programs pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
television programs pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
television programs pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or transgender culture .
films that are intended to impart knowledge and information ,  including those for classroom viewing .
films that use a structured format to teach or train the audience .
any motion picture not long enough to be considered a feature film .
a short film that integrates a song with imagery ,  and is produced for promotional or artistic purposes .
works that consist of more than one volume .
a journalistic publication which primarily reports some facet or facets of the news .
a journal about or otherwise related to a particular subculture or subcultures .
journal pertaining especially to lgbtq persons and / or culture .
journal pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
journal pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
journal pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
journal pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
journal pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
journal pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
a magazine about or otherwise related to a particular subculture or subcultures .
a newspaper about or otherwise related to a particular subculture or subcultures .
magazine pertaining especially to lgbtq persons and / or culture .
newspapers pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
magazine pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
magazine pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
magazine pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
magazine pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
magazine pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
magazine pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
magazine pertaining especially to transfeminine persons and / or culture .
magazine pertaining especially to transmasculine persons and / or culture .
a periodical devoted to literature in a broad sense .
magazine pertaining especially to people who cross - dress and / or cross dressing culture .
magazine pertaining especially to young persons and / or youth culture .
magazines aimed at teenage readers .
magazines dealing primarily with culture and / or aspects relating to culture .
a category of disorders related to menses .
an article appearing in a magazine .
work consisting of a news item appearing in a general - interest newspaper or other general news periodical .
an article appearing on the internet ,  usually on the world wide web .
a case report is a detailed report of the symptoms ,  signs ,  diagnosis ,  treatment ,  and follow - up of an individual patient .
a report issued by a state ,  nation ,  or other governing body .
law reports or reporters are series of books that contain judicial opinions from a selection of case law decided by courts .
a resource published by a governing body .
a set of standards for the writing ,  formatting and design of documents .
manuals relating to medical topics .
style guides related to academic writing ,  behavior ,  and communities .
a style guide providing a legal citation system .
a style guide for writing in media .
collection of preserved web pages .
a disorder that affects the fallopian tube .
any of various disorders affecting the process of ovulation .
works consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during a lgbtqia +  person's life .
works consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during an asexual person's life .
works consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during a bisexual person's life .
works consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during a gay man's life .
works consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during a lesbian's life .
works consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during a transgender person's life .
works consisting of an account of the events ,  works ,  and achievements ,  personal and professional ,  during an intersex person's life .
a dictionary that is accessible via the internet .
a thesis prepared as a requirement for a doctoral degree .
puberty as observed in animals .
puberty as observed in vertebrates .
puberty as observed in mammals .
puberty as observed in primates .
puberty as observed in humans .
unusually late sexual maturity .
isolated breast development prior to the normal age of pubertal onset in females .
a reclaimed or reappropriated word is a word that was at one time pejorative but has been brought back into acceptable usage ,  usually starting within its original target ,  i .e .
a special use of email that allows for widespread distribution of information to many internet users .
a email list in which any subscriber may post .
a research design that involves repeated observations of the same variables  ( e .g . ,  people )  over short or long periods of time  ( i .e . ,  uses longitudinal data )  .
a particular form of longitudinal survey that samples a cohort  ( a group of people who share a defining characteristic ,  typically those who experienced a common event in a selected period ,  such as birth or graduation )  ,  performing a cross - section at intervals through time .
the condition of being allosexual  ( in any of its many senses )  .
a sexuality that involves attraction to only one sex: generally ,  homosexuality or heterosexuality .
the state of being sexually and romantically attracted to members of more than one gender .
the state of being sexually attracted to members of female and male sexes  ( in non - human animals )  .
the state of being sexually and romantically attracted primarily or exclusively to persons of a gender identity the same as one's own .
the state of being sexually and romantically attracted primarily or exclusively to persons of a gender identity different than one's own .
homosexuality as observed in male organisms .
homosexuality as observed in female organisms .
an interaction between two or more individuals or populations in a society .
polysexuality is sexual attraction to multiple ,  but not all ,  genders .
the spectrum between asexuality and sexuality .
sexual attraction after close emotional connections have been formed .
the reciprocal interaction of two or more persons .
the interactions between individuals of different generations .
the reciprocal interaction of two or more professional individuals .
connectedness between entities and / or interactions representing their relatedness or influence .
the connectedness between entities as related by their position .
any relationship which includes a temporal or time - based component .
infrequent or irregular ovulation  ( usually defined as cycles of ≥36 days or  < 8 cycles a year )  .
the effect that a pair of organisms living together in a community have on each other .
a phenomenon whereby an observed phenotype ,  qualitative or quantative ,  is not explainable by the simple additive effects of the individual gene pertubations alone .
relationship between molecular entities ,  based on contacts ,  direct or indirect .
a family relationship between persons linked through descent from a common ancestor .
a family relationship between persons linked through marraige or adoption .
a biological family relationship between persons whoe are not linked through a direct line of descent .
a biological family relationship between persons linked through a direct line of descent .
a lineal family relationship from a person to their biological parent .
a lineal family relationship between two persons with at least one shared parent .
an interpersonal relationship that involves physical or emotional intimacy .
an interaction between two individuals .
an interaction between three individuals .
procedures by which a group of individuals approach and solve their common objectives .
the absence of ovulation .
bisexuality as observed in animals .
bisexuality as observed in vertebrates .
bisexuality as observed in mammals .
bisexuality as observed in primates .
bisexuality as observed in humans .
heterosexuality as observed in animals .
heterosexuality as observed in vertebrates .
heterosexuality as observed in mammals .
heterosexuality as observed in primates .
heterosexuality as observed in humans .
homosexuality as observed in animals .
homosexuality as observed in vertebrates .
homosexuality as observed in mammals .
homosexuality as observed in primates .
homosexuality as observed in humans .
homosexuality as observed in women .
homosexuality as observed in men .
homosexuality as observed in birds .
a single ,  continuous molecule of nucleic acid or protein .
the sequence of events involved in the process of reproduction .
any social interaction related directly or indirectly to sexual behavior .
sexual interaction between at least two organisms which involves contact and is expected to culminate in orgasm or orgasms for one or all of the parties involved .
sexual activity that usually does not include sexual penetration .
insertion of a body part or other object into a bodily orifice for the purposes of sexual pleasure .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is inserted into the armpit .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is stimulated by the breasts .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is stimulated by the buttocks without penetration of the anus .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is inserted into the anus .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is inserted into the mouth .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is inserted into the vagina .
sexual intercourse in which the penis is inserted into the anus .
sexual intercourse in which the penis is inserted into the vagina .
sexual intercourse in which the hand is inserted into the anus .
sexual intercourse in which an object ,  typically a sex toy ,  is inserted into the anus .
sexual intercourse in which the finger is inserted into the anus .
sexual intercourse in which the tongue is inserted into the anus .
sexual intercourse in which the penis is inserted into the mouth .
stimulation of the penis using the buttocks ,  often used as a form of mutual masturbation .
a sex act ,  performed as either foreplay or as non - penetrative sex ,  that involves the stimulation of a person's penis by another person's breasts and vice versa .
a form of sexual intercourse where the penis is inserted in the other person's armpit .
sexual intercourse in which the finger is inserted into the vagina .
sexual intercourse in which the hand is inserted into the vagina .
any of various penetrative and non - penetrative sex acts involving the finger or multiple fingers .
a sex act ,  performed as either foreplay or as non - penetrative sex ,  that involves the manual stimulation of a person's penis or scrotum by another person to induce an erection for sexual pleasure ,  sexual arousal and sometimes resulting in orgasm and ejaculation .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is stimulated by the feet .
a non - penetrative sexual practice with the feet that involves one's feet being rubbed on a partner in order to induce sexual excitement ,  stimulation or orgasm .
the insertion of a body part or other object into a body orifice ,  such as the vagina ,  anus or mouth ,  as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a body part or other object into the anus as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a body part or other object into the vagina as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a body part or other object into the mouth as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of the penis into the vagina as part of sexual behavior .
the first moment of initial entry of the erect penis into the vagina .
sexual intercourse in which an object  ( usually a kind a sex toy )  is inserted into the vagina .
any of various physical configurations that the human body can take .
positions which people may adopt during or for the purpose of sexual intercourse or other sexual activities .
sex positions involving exactly two participants .
sex positions involving more than two participants .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is stimulated by the thighs .
intercourse in which the penis is stimulated by placing it between another individual's thighs .
sex positions involving three persons .
sex positions involving four persons .
a sex position which can only be penetrative in nature .
a sex position which may or may not be penetrative in nature .
a sex position which can only be non - penetrative in nature .
a sex position in which the receptive vaginal partner lies on their back and the penetrating partner lies on top of them so that they are facing each other when engaging in vaginal intercourse .
sex positions which involve oral intercourse .
sex positions which involve vaginal intercourse .
sex positions which involve anal intercourse .
positive modulation of the execution of a process .
negative modulation of the execution of a process .
any stimulus  ( including bodily contact )  that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
any stimulus involving physical contact that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
any stimulus involving physical contact with the genitals that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
any stimulus involving physical contact with areas other than the genitals that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
any stimulus involving physical contact of the genitals with another's mouth that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
oral stimulation of the clitoris primarily using the tongue and lips .
oral stimulation of the penis primarily using the tongue and lips .
the insertion of a finger or fingers into an orifice  ( for example ,  the vagina or anus )  as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a finger or fingers into the anus as part of sexual behavior .
a relationship involving some kind of sexual intimacy .
a relationship of mutual affection between people which includes a stronger form of interpersonal bond than an association .
a very close but typically non - sexual relationship between friends ,  often involving a degree of physical closeness beyond that which is common in a given societal structure .
any of various disorders affecting the length of the menstrual cycle .
an interpersonal relationship based upon a mutually agreed - upon commitment to one another involving love ,  trust ,  honesty ,  openness ,  or some other behavior .
an interpersonal relationship which is considered ,  subjectively ,  long term .
an interpersonal relationship involving simultaneous or alternating emotions of love and hate—something particularly common when emotions are intense .
a relationship led by a woman .
a relationship led by a man .
a relationship based on mutual romantic love .
a close relationship which is non - sexual and non - romantic .
an interpersonal relationship in which the parties involved live together .
a person with whom one shares a living facility such as a room or dormitory typically without being family or romantically involved .
a person of the same sex / gender  ( a man living with a man or a woman living with a woman )  with whom one shares living quarters .
a person of the "opposite" sex  ( a man living with a woman or a woman living with a man )  with whom one shares living quarters .
coitus and / or sexual intercourse occurring between a married person and someone other their spouse .
coitus and / or sexual intercourse practiced by persons who are married to one another .
coitus and / or sexual intercourse practiced by persons before they are married .
an arrangement where parties ,  known as partners ,  agree to cooperate to advance their mutual interests .
an interpersonal relationship between two individuals who live together and share a common domestic life ,  but are not married  ( to each other or to anyone else )  .
a partnership which includes sexual activity between its constituents .
multiple sexual partnerships which overlap in time .
a sexual relationship ,  romantic friendship ,  or passionate attachment between two people without the attached person's significant other knowing .
an affair outside of the context of a marital relationship ;  cheating .
relationships outside of marriage where an illicit romantic or sexual relationship or a romantic friendship or passionate attachment occurs .
an affair which involves computer - mediated communication such as texting ,  social media connections ,  and instant messaging ,  among other things .
a relationship between persons of the same sex and can take many forms ,  from romantic and sexual ,  to non - romantic homosocially - close relationships .
a non - romantic and non - sexual relationship between persons of the same sex .
a relationship based on mutual romantic love between persons of the same sex .
a relationship involving some kind of sexual intimacy between persons of the same sex .
a relationship between persons of different sex and can take many forms ,  from romantic and sexual ,  to non - romantic homosocially - close relationships .
a relationship between two persons who are male .
a relationship between two persons who are female .
a relationship between a person who is male and a person who is female .
a relationship involving some kind of sexual intimacy between persons of different sex .
a relationship based on mutual romantic love between persons of different sex .
a non - romantic and non - sexual relationship between persons of different sex .
a relationship involving some kind of sexual intimacy between at least two lesbians .
a relationship involving some kind of sexual intimacy between at least two gay men .
a sexual relationship between a man and a woman .
a friendship between a man and a woman .
a relationship of mutual affection between two women which includes a stronger form of interpersonal bond than an association .
a relationship of mutual affection between two men which includes a stronger form of interpersonal bond than an association .
a physical and emotional relationship between two people who may have casual sex or a near - sexual relationship without necessarily demanding or expecting the extra commitments of a more formal romantic relationship .
interpersonal relationships which attains some form of internal or external significance  ( such as a marriage or civil union )  .
a significant relationship considered to have formally begun with a legal marriage ,  religious marriage ceremony ,  or some other cultural equivalent .
a pattern in which a group or groups of organisms are structured in relation to sexual behavior .
a pattern in which a group or groups of animals are structured in relation to sexual behavior .
a pattern in which a group or groups of plants are structured in relation to sexual behavior .
mating systems as observed in vertebrates .
mating systems as observed in mammals .
mating systems as observed in primates .
mating systems as observed in humans .
a form of relationship or pairing in which an individual has only one partner during their lifetime or ,  alternately ,  only one partner at any one time .
an umbrella term for any mating system which is not monogamous .
any form of multiple mating .
a form of polygamy in which one male has an exclusive relationship with two or more females .
a form of polygamy in which one female has an exclusive relationship with two or more males .
a form of polygamy in which two or more males have an exclusive relationship with two or more females .
a form of mating system in which organisms within the social group mates with any member of another sex classification .
a relationship in which a pair of organisms share a social living arrangement ,  such as shared use of territory or proximity between the pair )  .
an exclusive sexual relationship based on observations of sexual interactions .
a relationship where dna analyses can confirm that a pair of organisms reproduce exclusively with each other .
a mating practice in which individuals may engage in sequential monogamous pairings .
a form of monogamy which is both socially monogamous and sexually monogamous .
a form of monogamy which is both socially monogamous and genetically monogamous .
a form of relationship in which an individual person has only one partner during their lifetime or ,  alternately ,  only one partner at any one time .
an umbrella term for every human practice or philosophy of intimate relationship that does not strictly hew to the standards of monogamy ,  particularly that of having only one person with whom to exchange sex ,  love ,  and affection .
promiscuity and / or promiscuous behavior as observed in humans .
polygamy as observed in humans .
bigamy as observed in humans .
polyandry as observed in humans .
polygyny as observed in humans .
polygynandry as observed in humans .
a form of polyandry in which a female copulates with multiple males and males raise their progeny without any female parental role .
a form of polyandry in which inferior males potentially share paternity and offspring care with a dominant male .
a form of polyandry in which female organisms mate with multiple males to avoid coercive breeding harassment from those males .
non - monogamy in which partners mutually agree to form relationships with others .
non - monogamy in which participating parties are treated equally and respectifully ,  and ethusiastically consent to the non - monogamous arrangement .
an intimate relationship that is sexually non - monogamous ;  or ,  a sexual relationship ,  monogamous or otherwise ,  which is open to additional sexual connections .
polyandry in which one female mates and produces offspring with multiple males .
polygyny in which females choose a territorial male based on the male's available resources ,  such as territorial boundaries .
polygyny in which male animals gather in competitive displays and the "winner" or "winners" mate with multiple females .
any of the various mechanisms by which the fusion of two gametes to form a zygote occurs .
the state of conjugating gametes that are different in size ,  structure and function ;  anisogamy .
a form of sexual reproduction involving gametes of similar morphology .
a form of anisogamy  ( heterogamy )  in which the female gamete  ( e .g .
biological processes involved in maintaining ,  expressing ,  and transmitting from one organism to another ,  genetically encoded traits .
the process of cumulative change over successive generations through which organisms acquire their distinguishing morphological and physiological characteristics .
processes involved in the phenomenon of biological evolution .
the differential survival and reproduction of individuals due to differences in phenotype .
a mode of natural selection where members of one biological sex choose mates of the other sex to mate with  ( intersexual selection )  ,  and compete with members of the same sex for access to members of the opposite sex  ( intrasexual selection )  .
a mode of sexual selection in which members of one biological sex choose mates of the other sex to mate with .
a mode of sexual selection in which members of one biological sex compete with members of the same sex for access to members of the opposite sex .
an individual's production of offspring per breeding event or lifetime .
a feeling of affection shared between two or more organisms .
a feeling of close familiarity and mutual affection shared between two or more organisms .
a perception of mutual closeness that allows for sharing of personal feelings and demonstration of caring .
an expression of mutual affection which includes sensual proximity .
heightened urges of sexual desires in preparation for sexual behavior .
the sentiment of desiring feminine breasts .
the alleged unconscious desire of a woman to possess a penis .
the theoretic counterpart to penis envy ;  the alleged unconscious desire of a man to possess a vagina .
the alleged unconscious desire of a man to possess a womb .
what some organ ,  tissue ,  cell or biomolecule does or the reason why some process or system evolved in the context of selective pressures .
a psychological function .
intellectual processes which allow for knowledge acquisition .
conflict between persons with some kind of interpersonal relationship .
hostilities between different groups either inter - group or intra - group in nature .
the struggle for agency or power in society .
conflict between two or more members of the same group or team .
deliberate and planned acts of unlawful behavior engaged in by aggrieved segments of the population in seeking social change .
a form of violent crowd behavior which expresses the emotional release of resentments and prejudices ,  usually relevant to grievances toward the social system .
conflict within a marriage ;  conflict between married partners .
the struggle for agency or power in society between multiple cultures .
the struggle for agency or power in society between persons of differing ethnicities or ethnic groups .
the struggle for agency or power in society between different generations .
the struggle for agency or power in society between different roles .
acts of violence committed by or against political constituencies .
riots in which race played a major factor .
a refusal of obedience or order .
riots related to the lgbtqia +  community and lgbtqia +  people .
a social behavior that involves the coordinated behavior of large groups of similar animals as well as emergent properties of these groups .
collective behavior is a type of social behavior that occurs in crowds or masses .
large public gatherings ,  marches ,  etc . ,  organized for non - violent protest or affirmation ,  even though incidental disturbances or incipient rioting may occur .
large public gatherings ,  marches ,  etc . ,  organized for non - violent protest or affirmation in support of civil rights issues .
large public gatherings ,  marches ,  etc . ,  organized for non - violent protest or affirmation in support of lgbtq civil rights issues .
events pertaining to or about the lgbtq community .
events specific to the bisexual community and bisexual people .
events specific to the lesbian community and lesbians .
events specific to the gay male community and gay men .
events specific to the transgender community and transgender people .
events specific to the intersex community and intersex people .
events specific to the asexual community and asexual people .
meetings ,  protests ,  parties ,  etc . ,  organized by a group of people for a particular purpose .
when two or more people come together to discuss one or more topics ,  often in a formal or business setting ,  but meetings also occur in a variety of other environments .
an event for researchers  ( not necessarily academics )  to present and discuss their work .
an event of ritual significance ,  performed on a special occasion .
the ceremony during which graduation occurs .
conferences pertaining primarily to medical topics .
planned events usually involving large groups of persons ,  oftentimes arranged by organizations .
a debate is an event wherein opposing arguments are put forward to argue for opposing viewpoints as a formalized type of discussion .
a gathering of people who have been invited by a host for the purposes of socializing ,  conversation ,  recreation ,  or as part of a festival or other commemoration of a special occasion .
a procession of people ,  usually organized along a street ,  often in costume ,  and often accompanied by marching bands ,  floats ,  or sometimes large balloons .
any of various events related to aspects of culture  ( museum exhibitions ,  fashion shows ,  etc .
conferences primarily focused on cultural topics .
an event ordinarily celebrated by a community and centering on some characteristic aspect of that community and its religion or cultures .
events pertaining to given aspects of the arts .
events pertaining to given aspects of music .
events pertaining to given aspects of sexuality ,  sexuality in general ,  gender identity ,  and / or gender expression .
events pertaining to or focused on gender identity .
events pertaining to or focused on men .
events pertaining to or focused on women .
festivals focused on lgbtq culture .
conferences specific to the lgbtq community and lgbtq people .
parades specific to the lgbtq community and lgbtq people .
parties specific to the lgbtq community and lgbtq people .
an organized ,  extended presentation of films in one or more cinemas or screening venues ,  usually in a single city or region .
events which occur in a fiction .
events pertaining to or focused on gender expression .
events pertaining to or focused on cross - dressing .
events pertaining to or focused on sexuality or some aspect of sexuality .
events pertaining to or focused on sexual orientation or on the sexual orientations of its participants .
events pertaining to or focused on some sexual fetish or fetishes .
events specific to the nonbinary community and nonbinary people .
events specific to the transfeminine community and transfeminine people .
events specific to the transmasculine community and transmasculine people .
a protest demonstration which takes the form of a parade .
a march which addresses lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  transgender and queer  ( lgbtq )  rights ,  builds community ,  and creates lgbtq visibility .
a march which addresses transgender rights ,  builds community ,  and creates transgender visibility .
conferences specific to the transgender community and transgender people .
conferences specific to the bisexual community and bisexual people .
festivals specific to the bisexual community and bisexual people .
events pertaining to or focused on drag .
an annual graduation conducted at some universities to honor lgbtqia +  students and acknowledge their accomplishments and contributions .
a march which addresses lesbian rights ,  builds community ,  and creates lesbian visibility .
a dyke march is a lesbian visibility and protest march ,  much like the original lgbtq pride parades and lgbtq rights demonstrations .
commemorative events specific to the lgbtq community and lgbtq people .
the promotion of the self - affirmation ,  dignity ,  equality ,  and increased visibility of lgbtqia +  people as a social group .
a parade celebrating lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  transgender and queer  ( lgbtq )  social and self - acceptance ,  achievements ,  legal rights and pride .
awareness events specific to the lgbtq community and lgbtq people .
any of various ethnic groups located primarily on the continent of africa .
any of various ethnic groups located primarily on the continent of europe .
any of various ethnic groups located primarily on either of the americas .
any of various ethnic groups located primarily in oceania .
any of various ethnic groups located primarily on the continent of north america .
any of various ethnic groups located primarily on the continent of south america .
any of various ethnic groups located primarily on the continent of asia .
any of various ethnic groups located primarily in china .
an east asian ethnic group and nation native to china .
an ethnic group inhabiting the arab world .
a romance ethnic group native to spain .
an indo - aryan ethnic group native to the bengal region in south asia ,  specifically in the eastern part of the indian subcontinent ,  presently divided between bangladesh and the indian states of west bengal ,  tripura ,  assam's barak valley ,  who speak bengali ,  a language from the indo - aryan language family .
an east slavic ethnic group and nation native to european russia and other parts of eastern europe  ( some territories of the former tsardom of russia and russian empire )  ,  the most numerous ethnic group in europe .
a germanic ethnic group native to central europe ,  who share a common german ancestry ,  culture and history .
an east asian ethnic group native to korea and southwestern manchuria .
a romance ethnic group native to the italian peninsula and its neighbouring insular territories .
an ethnic group of americans with total or partial ancestry from any of the black racial groups of africa .
a small ethnic group of approximately 95 , 000 located in the southern nations ,  nationalities ,  and people's region at the border between north and south omo of ethiopia .
lgbtqia +  cultures on the continent of africa .
lgbtqia +  cultures on the continent of asia .
lgbtqia +  cultures on the continent of north america .
lgbtqia +  cultures on the continent of south america .
lgbtqia +  cultures on the continent of oceania .
lgbtqia +  cultures on the continent of europe .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of egypt .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of kenya .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of nigeria .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of south africa .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of the democratic republic of the congo .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of bangladesh .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of china .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of india .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of indonesia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of israel .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of japan .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of nepal .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of oman .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of pakistan .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the sovereign island city - state of singapore .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of south korea .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the state of taiwan .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of thailand .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of the philippines .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of albania .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of austria .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of belarus .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of bulgaria .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of croatia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of denmark .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of finland .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of france .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of germany .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of hungary .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of italy .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of latvia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of montenegro .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of norway .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of poland .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of portugal .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of romania .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of russia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of serbia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of spain .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of sweden .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of switzerland .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of the czech republic .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of the netherlands .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of the united kingdom .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of turkey .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of england .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of scotland .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of wales .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of northern ireland .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of the republic of ireland .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of australia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the subregion of micronesia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of new zealand .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the subregion of polynesia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the overseas collectivity of the french republic ,  french polynesia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the society islands ,  part of french polynesia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of hawaii .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of samoa .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the self - governing island country of the cook islands .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the polynesian sovereign state and archipelago of tonga .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . unincorporated territory guam .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . commonwealth of the northern mariana islands .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of argentina .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of brazil .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of chile .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of colombia .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of peru .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of canada .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of cuba .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the autonomous territory of denmark ,  greenland .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of mexico .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the country of the united states .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of arizona .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of california .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of colorado .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of connecticut .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of florida .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of georgia .
any of various disorders affecting menstrual uterine bleeding .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of illinois .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of indiana .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of louisiana .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of maryland .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of massachusetts .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of michigan .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of minnesota .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of mississippi .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of new jersey .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of new york .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of north carolina .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of oklahoma .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of oregon .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of pennsylvania .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of tennessee .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of texas .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of utah .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of washington .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the capital of the united states ,  washington ,  d .c .
lgbtqia +  cultures in the u .s . state of wisconsin .
the absence of menses at reproductive age .
infrequent menses  ( less than 6 per year or more than 35 days between cycles )  .
a group whose gender identity ,  gender expression or gender role differ from the majority of the surrounding society .
a group whose sexual identity ,  orientation or practices differ from the majority of the surrounding society .
men who belong to any of variou sexual minority groups .
women who belong to any of variou sexual minority groups .
communities characterized as belong to any of various sexual minority groups .
parties considered explicitly or implicitly erotic .
a formalized dance party .
a drag event in which people "walk"  ( i .e . ,  compete )  for trophies ,  prizes ,  and glory .
a social gathering where dancing is the primary activity .
a usually female - only gathering where participants learn about and buy sex toys .
a party where the participants are required to be nude .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the black lgbtq community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the african - american lgbtq community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the african - american gay male community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the african - american lesbian community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the african - american transgender community .
a person who is not asexual ;  a person who experiences sexual attraction .
people who do have any of various diseases .
a person who has any of various infections .
a person who is infected with hiv .
the insertion of a tongue into the anus as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a penis into the anus as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a finger or fingers into the vagina as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a tongue into the vagina as part of sexual behavior .
the first moment of initial entry of the erect penis into the anus .
any stimulus involving physical contact of an area other than the genitals with another's mouth that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
oral stimulation of the anus primarily using the tongue and lips .
oral stimulation of one's own clitoris primarily using the tongue and lips .
oral stimulation of one's own penis primarily using the tongue and lips .
one who is politically active in the role of a citizen ;  especially ,  one who campaigns for change .
a person who advocates for people's health and access to health care .
a person who advocates for people's access to and quality of medical care .
a person who advocates for the health of people with hiv / aids and their access to health care .
a person who supports others to make their voices heard ,  or ideally for them to speak up for themselves ,  in the arena of health and health care .
a person who supports others to make their voices heard ,  or ideally for them to speak up for themselves ,  in relationship to a particular ideology or ideologies .
an advocate of feminism ;  a person who believes in bringing about the equality of the sexes  ( of women and men )  in all aspects of public and private life .
a person who follows any of various sub - ideologies within radical feminism .
radical feminists who exclude transgender women in their spaces and / or ideologies .
radical feminists who include transgender women in their spaces and / or ideologies .
radical feminists who exclude female sex workers in their spaces and / or ideologies .
radical feminists who include female sex workers in their spaces and / or ideologies .
radical feminists who do not exclude persons ,  such as transgender women or female sex workers ,  from their spaces and / or ideologies .
festivals pertaining to or focused on women .
a community event oriented towards live performances of singing and instrument playing that is often presented with a theme such as musical genre  ( e .g . ,  blues ,  folk ,  jazz ,  classical music )  ,  nationality ,  or locality of musicians ,  or holiday .
a person who is not intersex .
any social behavior related to fighting .
frequent menses ;  menstrual cycles lasting less than 21 days .
human or non - human animal activity through which the exchange or transmission of thoughts ,  messages ,  or information is accomplished .
behaviors where entities interact in groups .
the tendency for a group to make decisions that are more extreme than the initial inclination of its members .
a psychological phenomenon that occurs within a group of people in which the desire for harmony or conformity in the group results in an irrational or dysfunctional decision - making outcome .
improvement in individual performance when working with other people rather than alone .
any action or conflict which can stop or interrupt another person's activity .
behaviors related to the way in which individuals change their behavior to meet the demands of a social environment .
play in which individuals interact with one another in either a structured or unstructured way .
behavior associated with interactions which resemble sexual behavior but do not lead to copulation .
behaviors related to interpersonal attractions .
behavior related to having a generally positive attitude toward another person .
a behavior that occurs between two individuals ,  such as parent and child ,  and involves an emotional attachment that implies a special and focused relationship .
the attraction between people which leads to the development of relationships or which results in a kind of positive attitude or evaluation regarding a particular person .
attraction that makes people desire sexual contact or shows sexual interest in another person or persons .
a concept in which a strong sexual attraction may develop between close blood relatives who first meet as adults .
attraction in which someone appreciates the appearance ,  beauty ,  or aesthetics of another person or persons ,  disconnected from sexual or romantic attraction .
the desire to get to know someone ,  often as a result of their personality instead of their physicality .
the desire to engage with another in an intellectual manner .
an interpersonal attraction which leads to the development of platonic relationships ,  usually friendships .
attraction that makes people desire romantic contact or interaction with another person or persons .
the desire to interact with others in a tactile ,  non - sexual manner ,  such as through hugging or cuddling .
relationships that are not romantic in nature ,  but involve very close emotional connections that are often deeper or more intense than traditional friendship .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the aromantic community .
interpersonal attractions between members of different genders .
interpersonal attractions between members of the same gender  ( or sex ,  depending on the organism in question )  .
amenorrhea following childbirth .
mainstream and socially accepted sexual interests ,  such as teleiophilia .
primary amenorrhea can be diagnosed in children by age 14 if no secondary sex characteristics ,  such as enlarged breasts and body hair ,  are present .
secondary amenorrhea's most common and most easily diagnosable causes are pregnancy ,  thyroid disease ,  and hyperprolactinemia .
sexual behavior considered conventional in the sense of a societal norm .
sexual behavior considered unconventional in the sense of a societal norm .
a sexual interest considered culturally or socially conventional in a given context .
a sexual interest considered culturally or socially unconventional in a given context .
any of various disorders which primarily affect sexual intercourse ,  sexuality ,  or have other sexual components or symptoms .
a sexual disorder considered psychological in origin ,  wherein pathological and physiological causes have been ruled out .
unconventional sexual behavior resulting from an individual's paraphilic interest .
sexual relations between a person and an animal as the result of zoophilic interests .
a paraphilia involving a sexual fixation on non - human animals .
sexual attraction to corpses .
sexual arousal and pleasure from feces .
any of various disorders primarily characterized by voyeurism .
any of various disorders primarily characterized by exhibitionism .
any of various disorders primarily characterized by frotteurism .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors involving the act  ( real ,  not simulated )  of being humiliated ,  beaten ,  bound ,  or otherwise made to suffer .
a disorder characterized by recurrent sexual urges ,  fantasies ,  or behaviors involving acts  ( real ,  not simulated )  in which the psychological or physical suffering of a victim is sexually exciting to the individual .
any of various disorders primarily characterized by pedophilia .
undinism ,  a fetish for or sexual dependency on either the smell and / or taste of urine ,  or the sight and sound of someone urinating .
sexual behavior involving feces .
a form of amenorrhea and chronic anovulation and is one of the most common types of secondary amenorrhea .
aberration in the release of an ovum from a rupturing graafian follicle ,  normally regulated by a surge in luteinizing hormone .
any sort of abnormal menstruation or menstrual process considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
the discharged blood from the uterus during the reproductive years .
spermatozoa with very small cranial ends devoid of any nuclear material ,  that is ,  lacking a typical sperm head .
uterine bleeding during menstruation .
prolonged and excessive menses at regular intervals in excess of 80 ml or lasting longer than 7 days .
bleeding from the uterus that is abnormally frequent ,  last excessively long ,  is more than normal ,  or is irregular .
bleeding in pregnancy that occurs before ,  during ,  or after childbirth .
bleeding before 24 weeks of gestational age .
an abnormal bleeding through the vagina that occurs during the last trimester of pregnancy .
extremely light menstrual blood flow .
prolonged / excessive menses and bleeding at irregular intervals .
uterine bleeding that occurs during a time not associated with the normal menstrual period .
the enjoyment of receiving pain or humiliation .
sexual pleasure derived from being physically or psychologically abused ,  whether inflicted by oneself or by others .
a condition in which there is a derivation of pleasure from inflicting pain ,  discomfort or humiliation on another person or persons .
achievement of sexual gratification by inflicting pain or humiliation on others ,  or watching pain or humiliation inflicted on others .
sadism and masochism: the enjoyment by one person of both inflicting and receiving pain .
sexual sadism and masochism: the sexual enjoyment by one person of both inflicting and receiving pain .
sexual practices or activities involving bondage ,  discipline ,  sadism ,  masochism ,  or acts of domination and submission .
a set of various sadomasochistic behaviors or activities involving a restrained partner or partners who is disciplined ,  either verbally ,  physically ,  or psychologically by another partner or partners .
a set of behaviours ,  customs ,  and rituals involving the submission of one person to another in an erotic episode or lifestyle .
the practice of consensually tying ,  binding ,  or restraining a partner for erotic ,  aesthetic ,  or somatosensory stimulation .
the practice where the dominant sets rules for the submissive that they are expected to obey .
undertaking or practicing the submissive role in bdsm activities .
the sexual attraction to specific parts of the body .
a sexual fetish that revolves around a fixation upon a particular article or type of clothing ,  a particular fashion or uniform ,  or a person dressed in such a style .
a sexual fetish focused on boots .
a fetishistic attraction to people wearing prescription glasses ,  or a partner wearing prescription glasses ,  sunglasses ,  or cosmetic contact lenses ,  or the fetishists themselves wearing any of these glasses .
a sexual fetishism where an individual is sexually stimulated ,  often to the point of obsession ,  by another person or oneself wearing gloves on their hands .
the fetishistic attraction to people wearing shiny clothes made of the synthetic plastic polyvinyl chloride  ( pvc )  or ,  in certain cases ,  to the garments themselves .
the fetishistic attraction to people wearing latex clothing or ,  in certain cases ,  to the garments themselves .
a fetishistic attraction to people wearing form fitting stretch fabrics or to the wearing of items of clothing made of such material .
a sexual fetishism relating to undergarments ,  and refers to preoccupation with the sexual excitement of certain types of underwear ,  including panties ,  stockings ,  pantyhose ,  bras ,  or other items .
a particular type of clothing fetishism in which an individual is sexually aroused by uniforms .
a partialism in which a person sees hair  ( most commonly ,  head hair )  as particularly sexually arousing .
a condition wherein the buttocks becomes a primary focus of sexual attention .
a pronounced sexual interest in eyes ,  the eyeballs ,  or activities involving them .
a paraphilia involving sexual attraction to the nose or nostrils .
a highly atypical sexual interest focused on female breasts .
a partialism in which an individual is sexually attracted to armpits .
the sexual fetish for hands .
a partialism in which an individual is attracted to the human navel .
alvinolagnia or belly fetish or stomach fetish is a partialism in which an individual is sexually attracted to the stomach or belly .
deviations from the normal process of menstruation ;  e .g .
the paraphilic practice of licking eyeballs for erotic gratification .
sexual arousal occuring after one has their head hair cut or shaved ,  after cutting the hair of another ,  after watching someone getting a haircut ,  or after seeing someone with a shaved head or very short hair .
sexual arousal from pubic hair .
a person who is wearing or wears clothing .
a person who wears clothing which society considers appropriate only for members of a different sex .
a bondage technique which involves the tying of rope around a woman's breasts in a visually intricate and decorative pattern .
the use of rope to restrict movement ,  wrap ,  suspend ,  or restrain a person ,  as part of bdsm activities .
bondage involving the use of metal apparatus to restrain a submissive as part of bdsm activities .
the use of restraints on oneself for erotic pleasure .
any of various techniques used to apply control to the head of the subject .
a bondage technique which involves the tying of rope around a person's elbows .
bdsm activities where the dominant partner is female .
bdsm activities where the dominant partner is male .
a situation in bdsm and other sexual activities in which the submissive partner is male .
a situation in bdsm and other sexual activities in which the submissive partner is female .
the practice of dressing a submissive partner as a woman and / or encouraging or training them to act in a feminine or exaggeratedly feminine  ( "hyperfeminine" )  manner .
menstruation that is painful in nature .
play in which one takes on a role and enacts or plays that role out .
roleplay that has a strong erotic element .
a form of roleplaying in which an individual acts or treats another as if they were a different age .
a form of roleplay where at least one participant plays the part of a non - human animal .
any sexual activity involving the use of fear to create sexual arousal .
a subjective term for activity  ( sexual or mentally manipulative )  that may challenge the conventional s .s .c .
a form of consensual bdsm edgeplay involving knives ,  daggers ,  and swords as a source of physical and mental stimulation .
sexual activity in which a participant is deliberately cut so as to release blood .
a form of bdsm sensual play where objects and substances are used to stimulate the body's neuroreceptors for heat and cold for sensual effect .
a form of temperature play that involves using flame on or very close to ,  the skin .
a form of temperature play practiced in a bdsm context .
a form of temperature play that usually involves running pieces of ice across a person's naked skin .
any of a number of sexual fetishes involving objects ,  practices ,  environments ,  and situations of a medical or clinical nature .
the attribution of attractive sexual qualities to shoes or other footwear as a matter of sexual preference ,  or an alternative or complement to a relationship with a partner .
a specific clothing fetishism in which a person has a sexual attraction to socks .
the act of wearing items of clothing and other accountrements commonly associated with the "opposite"  ( hence ,  "cross" )  gender within a particular society .
occurrence in penile - vaginal intercourse when the muscles in the vagina clamp down on the penis much more firmly than usual ,  making it impossible for the penis to withdraw from the vagina .
pain related to the process of menstruation .
coitus reservatus is a form of sexual intercourse in which the penetrative partner does not attempt to ejaculate within the receptive partner ,  but instead attempts to remain at the plateau phase of intercourse for as long as possible avoiding the seminal emission .
a diagnostic or treatment procedure performed by manual and / or instrumental means ,  often involving an incision and the removal or replacement of a diseased organ or tissue ;  of or relating to or involving or used in surgery or requiring or amenable to treatment by surgery .
an action or administration of therapeutic agents to produce an effect that is intended to alter or stop a pathologic process .
methods pertaining to the generation of new individuals ,  including techniques used in selective breeding ,  cloning  ( cloning ,  organism )  ,  and assisted reproduction .
sexual arousal to a part or parts of one's own body .
the sexual fetish for legs .
a fetish in which a person is aroused by sexual fantasies and behaviors involving the use of blood ,  with and / or in the absence of a partner .
the promotion of the self - affirmation ,  dignity ,  equality ,  and increased visibility of transgender persons as a social group .
film festivals focused on lgbtq culture and / or persons .
film festivals focused on transgender culture and / or persons .
an entertainment event which is performed by drag artists .
any sexuality considered not heterosexual .
heterosexual practices that are controversially called queer .
social monogamy ,  as observed in mammals .
the fertilization of two separate ova from the same father ,  leading to fraternal twins .
a form of atypical twinning ,  genetically ,  the twins are half siblings .
penetration of the anus with two anatomical parts  ( typically penises )  or objects .
any of various chromosomal disorders primarily affecting a sex chromosome or chromosomes .
any of various chromosomal disorders primarily affecting a non - sex chromosome or chromosomes .
persons who advocate for any of various social changes and / or movements .
stimulation of one's own genitalia .
sexual stimulation or gratification of the self .
masturbation performed mentally ,  i .e .
curiosity of a sexual nature or curiousity about sexual topics .
curiousity about sexual intercourse of other experiences with persons of a gender that would constitute a person's implied sexuality being bisexual  ( for example ,  a gay man being curious about sex with a woman or a heterosexual woman being curious about sex with another woman )  .
a person who is cisgender and heterosexual .
dysmenorrhea that occurs without an associated underlying condition .
any of various kinds of cross - dressing or construction of queerness within the context of performance .
dysmenorrhea that has a specific underlying cause ,  typically a condition that affects the uterus or other reproductive organs .
a state in which life expectancy between populations is equalized as much as possible despite differences in demographics ,  such as gender ,  race ,  ethnicity ,  and socioeconomic status .
the state of being unequal ;  difference .
an adult person who is transgender .
a transgender person who is a veteran .
a transgender person who is part of and / or is employed by the military .
the time of life between childhood and maturity .
a young person belonging to any of various minority groups .
a young person belonging to any of various ethnic minority groups .
a young person belonging to any of various gender and / or sexual minority groups .
a young person who is part of the lgbtqia +  community or has an identity or identities considered lgbtqia +  .
a young person who is a lesbian .
a young man who is gay .
a young person who is bisexual .
transgender youth are children and adolescents who are transgender and / or transsexual .
a young person who is transgender or otherwise gender nonconforming .
an adolescent person belonging to any of various minority groups .
an adolescent person belonging to any of various ethnic minority groups .
an adolescent person belonging to any of various gender and / or sexual minority groups .
an adolescent person who is transgender or otherwise gender nonconforming .
an adolescent person who is part of the lgbtqia +  community or has an identity or identities considered lgbtqia +  .
an adolescent person who is transgender .
an adolescent person who is bisexual .
an adolescent man who is gay .
an adolescent person who is a lesbian .
an adolescent person who is nonbinary .
an adolescent person who is transmasculine .
an adolescent person who is transfeminine .
an adult person belonging to any of various minority groups .
an adult person belonging to any of various ethnic minority groups .
an adult person belonging to any of various gender and / or sexual minority groups .
an adult person who is part of the lgbtqia +  community or has an identity or identities considered lgbtqia +  .
a transgender person of color who is female .
a transgender woman who is black .
a medical patient who is transgender .
a young adult who is transgender .
an adult person who is transmasculine ,  usually a transgender man .
a sovereign state established by the acts of union 1800 ,  which merged the kingdoms of great britain and ireland .
a state established in 1922 under the anglo - irish treaty of december 1921 .
a sovereign state in western europe from 1 may 1707 to 1 january 1801 .
a client state of england and then of great britain that existed from 1542 until 1800 .
a sovereign state on the island of great britain from 927 ,  when it emerged from various anglo - saxon kingdoms until 1707 ,  when it united with scotland to form the kingdom of great britain .
a sovereign state in northwest europe traditionally said to have been founded in 843 .
a country in southeast europe ,  created from the two remaining federal republics of yugoslavia after its breakup in 1992 .
a short - lived state which controlled ,  de jure ,  the territory of the former russian empire after its proclamation by the russian provisional government on 1 september  ( 14 september ,  n .s . ) 
an independent state from 1917 to 1922 ,  and afterwards the largest ,  most populous and most economically developed of the 15 soviet socialist republics of the soviet union  ( ussr )  from 1922 to 1990 ,  then a sovereign part of the soviet union with priority of russian laws over union - level legislation in 1990 and 1991 ,  during the last two years of the existence of the ussr .
upon defeat of nazi germany in world war ii ,  the victorious allies asserted joint authority and sovereignty over 'germany as a whole' ,  defined as all territories of the former german reich west of the oder–neisse line ,  having declared the destruction of nazi germany at the death of adolf hitler .
the common english name for germany between 1933 and 1945 ,  when adolf hitler and his nazi party  ( nsdap )  controlled the country through a dictatorship .
an unofficial historical designation for the german state from 1918 to 1933 .
the german nation state that existed from the unification of germany in 1871 until the abdication of kaiser wilhelm ii in 1918 .
the german federal state which existed from july 1867 to december 1870 .
a central european multinational great power from 1804 to 1867 ,  created by proclamation out of the realms of the habsburgs .
any of various conditions ,  states ,  or statuses considered intersex .
an external genital phenotype that is not clearly assignable to a single sex ,  i .e .
sex defined as indeterminate based on predecided criteria .
a health difference that adversely affects disadvantaged populations .
any of various conditions or statuses related to anatomical features or entities .
any of various conditions affecting the reproductive organs or tissues .
condition of possessing both male and female reproductive organs .
a type of hermaphroditism that occurs in many fish ,  gastropods ,  and plants .
hermaphroditism in which an adult organism has functional male and female sexual organs at the same time ;  often this allows for self - fertilization .
sequential hermaphroditism in which the animal develops as male ,  but can later reproduce as female .
sequential hermaphroditism in which the animal develops as female ,  but can later reproduce as male .
sequential hermaphroditism in which the animal develops as female ,  but can later become hermaphroditic .
sequential hermaphroditism in which the animal develops as male ,  but can later become hermaphroditic .
sequential hermaphroditism as it occurs in animals .
sequential hermaphroditism as it occurs in plants .
a syndrome with an underlying cause related to some aspect of chromosomal mechanisms .
a syndrome with an underlying cause related to the autosome or some part of the autosome .
a syndrome with an underlying cause related to the allosome or some part of the allosome .
any of various intersex conditions determined principally by chromosomal variations ,  especially those which have karyotypes other than 46 , xx or 46 , xy .
a chromosomal syndrome caused by the presence of an extra x chromosome in the male karyotype .
a genetic condition characterized by a sex chromosome aneuploidy ,  where males have two extra x chromosomes .
a sex chromosome anomaly in which males have an extra x and y chromosome .
an extremely rare aneuploidic sex chromosomal abnormality .
klinefelter syndrome variants which result from an anomaly early in fetal development which results in two cell lines within the body ;  mosaic klinefelter syndromes may be less severe than other non - mosaic variants .
a mosaic variant of klinefelter syndrome in which there is a mosaic 47 , xxy / 46 , xx constitutional karyotype .
a mosaic variant of klinefelter syndrome in which there is a mosaic 47 , xxy / 46 , xy constitutional karyotype and varying degrees of spermatogenic failure .
an abnormal organ development during embryonic growth and development .
gonadal dysgenesis with non - mosaic karyotypes ,  such as 46 , xx or 46 , xy .
gonadal dysgenesis with a karyotype of 46 , xx .
gonadal dysgenesis with a karyotype of 46 , xy .
a type of gonadal dysgenesis resulting from 45 , x / 46 , xy mosaicism .
any of various conditions which feature dysgenetic ovaries .
a type of hypogonadism in a person whose karyotype is 46 , xy .
gonadal dysgenesis with a karyotype of 46 , xy with an etiology related to the gene sry .
any form of gonadal dysgenesis with a karyotype of 46 , xy with an etiology related to the gene dhh .
any form of gonadal dysgenesis with a karyotype of 46 , xy which presents with or without adrenal failure .
gonadal dysgenesis with a karyotype of 46 , xy with an etiology related to the gene cbx2 .
any form of gonadal dysgenesis with a karyotype of 46 , xy with an etiology related to the deletion of 9p24 .3 .
deletion of 9p24 .3 which can often result in some form of gonadal dysgenesis .
a disorder of the endocrine gonads .
a condition that results in a mild impairment of the cell's ability to respond to androgens .
any of various intersex conditions determined principally by hormonal variations .
any of various intersex conditions determined principally by anatomical variations .
a lack or shortage of a functional entity ,  by less than normal or necessary supply or function .
deficiency of 5 - alpha - reductase type 2 in genital tissues resulting in reduced local concentration of dihydrotestosterone  ( dht )  .
any of various intersex conditions determined principally by genetic variations .
absence of an organ or tissue coupled with persistence of the organ / tissue primordium ,  which fails to develop completely .
a rare condition characterized by the absence of a vagina .
a syndrome characterized by the presence of uterine abnormalities .
mayer - rokitansky - küster - hauser  ( mrkh )  syndrome describes a spectrum of mullerian duct anomalies characterized by congenital aplasia of the uterus and upper 2 / 3 of the vagina in otherwise phenotypically normal females .
failure of the cervix to develop .
a disorder which primarily affects a particular tissue or tissues .
a disorder which is trophic in nature ;  that is ,  it involves some issue with tissue growth .
an abnormal enlargement of the clitoris that is mostly congenital or acquired ,  though deliberately induced clitoris enlargement as a form of female genital body modification is achieved through various uses of anabolic steroids ,  including testosterone .
developmental hypoplasia of the adrenal glands .
a type of adrenal hypoplasia with congenital onset .
a x - linked condition characterized by underdevelopment of the adrenal gland and adrenal insufficiency caused by mutation ( s )  in the nr0b1 gene ,  resulting in decreased activity of the nuclear receptor protein dax1 ,  which may be associated with hypogonadotropic hypogonadism .
location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis .
a severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum .
hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region .
hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the scrotum .
a mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis .
the most common form of hypospadias ,  wherein the opening of the urethra is found near the head of the penis .
location of the urethral opening on the penile mid - shaft .
hypospadias in which the urethral opening is below its normal location in the glans .
hypospadias in which the opening of the urethra is located on the head of the penis ,  but not at its tip .
penile hypospadias which is inherited  ( familial )  ,  not acquired .
hypospadias in which the location of the urethral opening is on the penile shaft .
location of the urethral opening on the distal penile shaft .
location of the urethral opening on the proximal penile shaft .
hypospadias in which the opening of the urethra is located just below the head of the penis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the penis .
hypoplasia of the penis .
a penis at birth less than 2 .0 to 2 .5 cm in length ,  stretched from pubic tubercle to the tip of the penis )  .
a condition marked by the length of the penile being more than 2 standard deviations below the mean for age ,  accompanied by hypospadias .
a function of the urogenital system .
any of various functions related to sexual activities or sex - related organs .
the processes of anatomical ,  psychological ,  and physiological changes related to sexual or reproductive functions during the life span of an animal ,  from fertilization to death .
the establishment of the sex of a female organism by physical differentiation .
an aspect of the process of sexual differentiation by which a potential female - specific structure ,  function ,  or behavior is changed by one of the processes of male development .
the establishment of the sex of a male organism by physical differentiation .
development of male sex characteristics based on drug presence in an organism's system .
feminization of the testicles based on the inaction of androgens ,  and subsequent aromatization of testosterone into estrogen .
virilization induced by maternal use of androgens or high doses of certain weakly androgenic synthetic progestogens  ( progestins )  structurally related to testosterone can masculinize  ( virilize )  the external genitalia of a female fetus during susceptible times in pregnancy .
any of various intersex conditions experienced by persons with a 46 , xx karyotype .
any of various intersex conditions experienced by persons with a 46 , xy karyotype .
the state of a male whose body ,  especially the genitalia ,  shows evidence of below - normal prenatal  ( less commonly pubertal )  androgen effects .
historically ,  bisexual referred to attraction to persons of two gender identities ,  typically ,  but not always ,  defined as male and female .
sexual attraction between two or more people of the same gender or the same gender - area  ( for example ,  a man being attracted to a transmasculine person )  ,  especially between two men .
sexually attracted to a person defined as being of the "opposite" sex  ( i .e .
a gender identity in question or in the process of being questioned .
female persons who engage in sexual activity with men ,  regardless of how they identify themselves .
male persons who engage in sexual activity with women ,  regardless of how they identify themselves .
men who are engage in sexual activities with transgender women .
a woman who engages in sexual activity with transgender men .
a term used primarily ,  but not exclusively ,  in the united states to describe any person who is not considered white .
persons who are female and of color .
persons who are male and of color .
transgender persons employed as sex workers or otherwise engaged in sex work .
transgender persons engaged in street prostitution and / or street sex work .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the trunk .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the thorax .
any of various surgical procedures by which a transgender person's physical appearance and function of their existing sexual characteristics are altered to resemble that socially associated with their identified gender .
any of various surgeries for those expressing intersex conditions or variations .
any of a variety of surgical procedures that alter anatomical traits to provide physical traits more comfortable to the transfeminine person's gender identity and functioning .
any of a variety of surgical procedures that alter anatomical traits to provide physical traits more comfortable to the transmasculine person's gender identity and functioning .
any of various facial surgeries used as treatment for transfeminine persons in alleviation of gender dysphoria .
any of various facial surgeries used as treatment for transmasculine persons in alleviation of gender dysphoria .
any of various genital surgeries used as treatment for transmasculine persons in alleviation of gender dysphoria .
any of various genital surgeries used as treatment for transfeminine persons in alleviation of gender dysphoria .
differences in access to or availability of medical facilities and services .
a mental health difference that adversely affects disadvantaged populations .
surgery during which an ovotestis or ovotestes are excised .
any of various genital surgeries used as treatment for transgender persons in alleviation of gender dysphoria .
any of various chest surgeries used as treatment for transgender persons in alleviation of gender dysphoria .
any disease affecting the adrenal gland .
a grouping of disorders caused by abnormal levels of steroid hormones expressed by the gonads or the adrenal glands .
an adrenogenital disorder which is congenital in nature .
an adrenogenital disorder which is present at birth and which is associated with an enzyme deficiency .
abnormal sex differentiation or congenital intersex conditions caused by abnormal levels of steroid hormones expressed by the gonads or the adrenal glands ,  such as in congenital adrenal hyperplasia and adrenal cortex neoplasms .
an instance of adrenogenital syndrome that is acquired during the lifetime of the individual .
an instance of adrenogenital syndrome that is congenital .
occurence of adrenarche at a later than normal age .
first period after the age of 15 years .
later than normal development of the breasts .
various medical interventions organized by type or intended result .
any of various medical interventions for those expressing intersex conditions or variations .
any of various surgeries aiming to masculinize intersex anatomical variations .
any of various surgeries aiming to feminize intersex anatomical variations .
any of various intersex - related surgeries performed on the genitalia .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the male genital system .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the testes .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the penis .
surgery to move an undescended  ( cryptorchid )  testicle into the scrotum and permanently fix it there .
surgical procedures performed on the urethra .
surgery in which the urethra is repaired .
surgery in which hypospadias is repaired .
surgery in which epispadias is repaired .
construction of a penis following damage to it or its destruction .
creation of a new penis where one was previously absent .
surgical repair of the testicle .
surgical removal of the testes .
a surgical procedure in which one or both testicles are removed  ( bilateral orchiectomy )  .
a health difference that adversely affects lgbtqia +  populations .
a surgery during which part of a testicle is removed .
a surgery during which one of both testicles are removed ,  along with the spermatic cord .
a surgery during which one or both testicles are removed .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the labia .
medical procedures performed for the purposes of castration or otherwise causing castration .
surgical removal of the gonads ,  usually the ovaries or the testes .
chemical castration of the gonads ,  usually the ovaries or the testes ,  by usage of any of various pharmaceutical agents .
partial or complete removal of one or both of the ovaries .
the removal of one or both ovaries and their associated fallopian tube or tubes .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the ovary .
surgical removal of the ovary .
surgery in which the condition of chordee is released .
surgical repair of the penis .
any malformation or condition related to a gastrointestinal malformation which is present at birth ,  regardless of cause .
a bladder exstrophy - epispadias - cloacal exstrophy complex that is characterized by a defect in the urethra ,  bladder and bowel .
malformations of any part or the entirety of the bladder which are present at birth .
a congenital anomaly that involves the protrusion of the exstrophied bladder through the abdominal wall .
malformations of any part or the entirety of the penis which are present at birth .
any malformation or condition related to intestinal malformation which is present at birth ,  regardless of cause .
the construction or reconstruction of a penis ,  or the artificial modification of the penis by surgery .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the uterus .
surgical removal of the uterus .
a surgical procedure to remove the uterine body  ( partial hysterectomy )  or the uterine body and cervix  ( total hysterectomy )  .
insertion of a testicular prosthesis .
an artificial replacement for a testicle that has been lost either through surgery or injury .
insertion of a penile prosthesis .
a growth or enlargement of some part of an organism's morphology .
morphological enlargement present at birth .
morphological enlargement acquired after birth .
any technique aimed to increase the size of a human penis .
any of various surgical techniques aimed at increasing the size of the penis .
a syndrome characterized by the presence of penile abnormalities .
a syndrome in which there is a scarcity of penile shaft skin ,  resulting in a short penile shaft .
a condition in which the penis is covered by excess skin the pubic area .
a condition in which the penis is covered by excess skin the pubic area at any point in life after birth .
a condition in which the penis is covered by excess skin the pubic area at birth .
surgery in which the condition of buried penis is repaired .
the deliberate altering of the human anatomy or human physical appearance .
augmentation of one's body or any of its various parts .
cutting off or injury to a body part of a person so that the part of the body is permanently damaged ,  detached or disfigured .
any of various forms of ornamentation of the body or parts of the body .
the practice of puncturing or cutting a part of the human body ,  creating an opening in which jewelry may be worn ,  or where an implant could be inserted .
the art or process of making tattoos .
augmentation of one's body or any of its various parts through surgical means .
cutting off or injury to the genitals of a person so that the part of the body is permanently damaged ,  detached or disfigured .
surgical removal or artificial destruction of gonads .
the ritual cutting or removal of some or all of the external male genitalia .
the ritual cutting or removal of some or all of the external female genitalia .
a general term encompassing several types of excision of the external genitalia .
circumcision is a surgical procedure to remove the foreskin ,  the skin that covers the tip of the penis .
a general term encompassing three types of excision of the external female genitalia: sunna ,  clitoridectomy ,  and infibulation .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the clitoris .
the surgical removal ,  reduction ,  or partial removal of the clitoris .
the surgical creation of a clitoris in transgender women  ( as part of gender confirmation surgery )  ,  restoration in the case of procedures reversing the damage caused by female genital cutting ,  or surgery to change clitoral size for women and girls with congenital adrenal hyperplasia .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the vagina .
surgical repair of the vagina .
any surgical procedure that results in the construction or reconstruction of the vagina .
creation of a new vagina where one was previously absent .
construction of a vagina following damage to it or its destruction .
vaginoplasty which uses a section of the intestine to create the vagina .
vaginoplasty which uses a section of the colon to create the vagina .
vaginoplasty which uses a section of the ileocecal intestine to create the vagina .
vaginoplasty which uses a section of the ileum to create the vagina .
vaginoplasty which uses a section of the cecum to create the vagina .
vaginoplasty which uses a section of the sigmoid colon to create the vagina .
vaginoplasty which uses a section of the rectosigmoid colon to create the vagina .
vaginoplasty which utilizes peritoneum flaps to line a portion of the vaginal canal .
vaginoplasty using the buccal mucosa lining the mouth .
vaginoplasty in which the vaginal canal is constructed from part of the rectal cavity .
vaginoplasty in which the skin from outside the penis is removed and used to create the lining of the vagina .
vaginoplasty which uses a penile skin graft and scrotal flaps .
vaginoplasty using penile skin and a urethral flap .
vaginoplasty in which the vagina is lined with a skin graft which is placed on a vaginal mold and then placed into the space that is opened to become the vagina .
a surgical procedure that repairs a defect in the wall of the vagina .
a surgical procedure that repairs a defect in the wall of the neovagina .
neocolporrhaphy using part of the rectosigmoid colon .
surgical creation of a feminized vulva without a vagina .
phalloplasty using a pedicled flap .
phalloplasty using skin grafts with intact blood vessels and nerves .
phalloplasty with tissue completely removed from the forearm with blood vessels and nerves intact .
phalloplasty in which the tissue is separated from the blood vessels and nerves of the anterior lateral thigh .
phalloplasty using a suprapubic abdominal flap .
phalloplasty in which donor tissue is taken from the back muscles underneath the arm .
phalloplasty utilizing any of various skin flaps which lack significant bias in their vascular patterns .
phalloplasty using an osteocutaneous radial forearm free flap .
phalloplasty using a lateral arm flap .
phalloplasty using a fibula free flap .
phalloplasty using an osteocutaneous fibula free flap .
phalloplasty using a skin graft from the anterolateral thigh .
phalloplasty using a free scapular flap .
phalloplasty in which donor tissue is taken from the back muscles underneath the arm and re - innervated .
phalloplasty using a tensor fascia lata  ( tfl )  flap .
phalloplasty using conjoined bilateral pedicled groin flaps .
phalloplasty using a bipedicled infraumbilical skin flap .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the vulva .
not desiring or experiencing romantic attraction to others .
romantic attraction to men and women .
the surgical creation of a labia minora and majora in transgender women  ( as part of gender confirmation surgery )  ,  restoration in the case of procedures reversing the damage caused by female genital cutting ,  or surgery to change labial size for women and girls in conditions such as vaginal atresia and müllerian agenesis .
a full set of all personal names by which an individual is known and that can be recited as a word - group ,  with the understanding that ,  taken together ,  they all relate to that one individual .
a given name that can be used by a person regardless of their gender .
a surname formed from a person's grandfather's name .
a surname formed from a person's mother's name .
a surname formed from a person's father's name .
performance artists ,  almost always male ,  who dress in women's clothing and often act with exaggerated femininity and in feminine gender roles with a primarily entertaining purpose .
mostly female performance artists who dress in masculine drag and personify male gender stereotypes as part of an individual or group routine .
a person who performs drag artistry .
cross - dressing for the purposes of entertainment or other performance .
cross - dressing during times of war for various motives .
usage of cross - dressing or non - typical / unexpected gender expression in order to confuse ,  avoid ,  or trick others .
a theatrical performance or role in which a character is portrayed by a person of the "opposite" gender  ( i .e .
a transgender woman who is latina .
creation of new labia minora and majora where they were previously absent .
clitoroplasty in which the clitoris is formed from the corona of the glans penis .
reconstruction of the chest ,  typically following mastectomy ,  which gives the chest a more masculine appearance .
a transgender person of color who is male .
a woman who identifies as queer .
a man who identifies as queer .
a person who identifies as queer in terms of gender identity and / or sexual orientation .
young men who engage in sexual activities with men .
a young adult who is part of the lgbtqia +  community or has an identity or identities considered lgbtqia +  .
a child who is transgender .
services for the diagnosis and treatment of disease and the maintenance of health .
the use of drugs to prevent disease in people who have not yet been exposed to a disease - causing agent ,  usually a virus .
one of a number of hiv prevention strategies for people who are hiv negative but who also have higher - than - average risk of contracting hiv ,  including sexually active adults at increased risk of hiv  ( e .g .
any of various facial surgeries used as treatment for transgender persons in alleviation of gender dysphoria .
a man of color who is gay .
a latino man who is gay .
a black man who is gay .
a person of color who is a lesbian .
a black person who is a lesbian .
a young person who is a transgender woman or otherwise transfeminine .
a young person who is a transgender man or otherwise transmasculine .
black men who engage in sexual activities with men .
a love of men ;  sexual attraction to men ;  male - oriented teleiophilia .
the love of women ;  a sexual attraction to women ,  in general ;  female - oriented teleiophilia .
teleiophilic attraction to both men and women .
male persons who engage in sexual activity with men and women ,  regardless of how they identify themselves .
a medical symptom primarily covered under the realm of psychiatry .
any of various abnormal behaviors observed in animals .
note that abnormal behavior is usually a sign or symptom indicative of one of many psychiatric disorders ,  making it ostensibly different than behavior deemed unusual .
behavior that is considered out of the ordinary ,  uncommon ,  or unexpected from a person or nonhuman animal given their previous patterns of behavior .
the observable ,  measurable ,  and often pathological activity of an organism that portrays its inability to overcome a habit resulting in an insatiable craving for a substance or for performing certain acts .
persistent deficits in social interaction and communication and interaction as well as a markedly restricted repertoire of activity and interest as well as repetitive patterns of behavior .
an intersex person who is a medical patient .
a limitation on a person's mental functioning or intellectual capacity .
a limitation on a person's physical functioning ,  mobility ,  dexterity or stamina .
a chromosomal dysgenesis syndrome resulting from a triplication or translocation of chromosome 21 .
refers to a person's state of physical ,  mental and social well - being ;  usually it refers specifically to the state of being in good health ,  a state of complete physical ,  mental and social well - being ,  and does not consist only of the absence of disease or infirmity .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by members of gender and sexual minorities ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by members of gender minorities ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by members of sexual minorities ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by transgender people ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
sound produced by vibration of the vocal cords during an expiration of air .
voice which is socially read as belonging to an individual of a constructed gender role .
voice which is socially read as belonging to an individual of a constructed female gender role .
voice which is socially read as belonging to an individual of a constructed male gender role .
voice as utilizing by transgender persons ,  typically in order to pass or be socially accepted as their identified gender .
voice as utilizing by transfeminine persons ,  typically in order to pass or be socially accepted as their identified feminine gender .
voice as utilizing by transmasculine persons ,  typically in order to pass or be socially accepted as their identified masculine gender .
persons ,  usually in the united states ,  who identify as latina ;  broadly ,  all latin american women .
persons ,  usually in the united states ,  who identify as latino ;  broadly ,  all latin american men .
a black person who is female .
a person who has any of various addictions .
a person who has an addiction to alcohol .
a person who has an addiction to cocaine .
a transgender person who is allosexual .
a transgender person who is asexual .
a transgender person who is gay .
a transgender person who is heterosexual .
a transgender person who is bisexual .
a transgender person who is pansexual .
surgical procedures performed on the chest wall .
surgery in which the chest wall is repaired .
decreased libido considered nonnormative or unhealthy .
any sort of libido change considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
increased libido considered nonnormative or unhealthy .
libido considered within healthy boundaries or expected boundaries as defined within a particular context .
the state of not having sex drive or libido .
any sort of libido considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
high libido considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
low libido considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
more frequent libido considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
less frequent libido considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
loss of libido considered nonnormative or unhealthy in a sudden period or over a longer period of time as the result of already decreasing libido .
sexual behavior considered excessive .
sexual behavior considered below what is expected .
any sexual disorder characterized by abnormal presence or absence of sexual desire .
the tendency or instinct of animals to engage in sexual activity .
any sort of sexual drive considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
any sort of sexual drive change considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
high sexual drive considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
loss of sexual drive considered nonnormative or unhealthy in a sudden period or over a longer period of time as the result of already decreasing sexual drive .
the state of not having sexual drive .
any of various disorders affecting libido .
a disorder characterized by sexual hyperactivity .
a disorder characterized by sexual hypoactivity ,  marked by sudden lack in sexual interest despite desire for sexual stimulation .
any of various sexual disorders with primarily physiological causes .
a condition in which one has difficulty reaching the orgasm phase of sexual intercourse or reaching such a phase is considered not possible .
a disorder characterized by recurrent or persistent extreme aversion to ,  and avoidance of ,  all genital contact with a sexual partner .
sexual arousal disorder is characterized by a lack or absence of sexual fantasies and desire for sexual activity in a situation that would normally produce sexual arousal ,  or the inability to attain or maintain typical responses to sexual arousal .
any of various syndromes primarily affecting the neurological system of the body .
a disorder characterized by sexual hyperactivity which is paraphilic in nature .
a disorder characterized by sexual hyperactivity which is not paraphilic in nature .
behavior considered of an abnormal sexual nature and therefore likely clinically significant .
initiation of actions without forethought as to the cost ,  results or consequences .
the behavior of performing an act persistently and repetitively without it leading to reward or pleasure .
compulsive behaviors considered sexual in nature .
compulsive behaviors performed in quick succession ritualistically .
compulsive sexual behavior that is paraphilic in nature .
compulsive sexual behavior that is not paraphilic in nature .
masturbatory behavior that is compulsive .
nonparaphilic sexual behavior considered excessive .
paraphilic sexual behavior considered excessive .
any of various disorders affecting genital arousal .
spontaneous ,  persistent ,  unwanted and uncontrollable genital arousal in the absence of sexual stimulation or sexual desire ,  and is typically not relieved by orgasm .
difficulty experienced by an individual or a couple during any stage of a normal sexual activity ,  including physical pleasure ,  desire ,  preference ,  arousal or orgasm .
sexual dysfunction with a primarily non - physiological cause .
sexual dysfunction with a primarily physiological cause .
a dysfunction involving erection .
a dysfunction involving ejaculation .
low sexual drive considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
a dysfunction involving orgasm .
any sexual disorder which causes persistent pain relating specifically to sexual intercourse or other sexual activity .
a dysfunction of the urogenital system .
recurrent or persistent involuntary spasm of the outer muscles of the vagina ,  occurring during vaginal penetration .
sexual relationship disorder is a disorder where a person has difficulties in forming or maintaining a sexual relationship because of their gender identity and / or sexual orientation .
developmental disorders with primarily psychosexual symptoms .
sexual maturation disorder is a disorder of anxiety or depression related to an uncertainty about one's gender identity and / or sexual orientation .
behavior patterns of persons using contraception or in their specific use of contraception .
any of various attributes of an organism or other biological material .
physical or behavioral traits of an organism  ( typically of a sexually dimorphic organism )  which are often ,  but not always ,  indicative of its biological sex  ( i .e .
sex characteristics that are congenital .
sex characteristics that are acquired after birth ,  typically during puberty or related processes .
the state in which a secondary sex characteristic or characteristics doesn't develop .
a physiological phenomenon in which the erectile tissue  ( the penis or the clitoris )  becomes enlarged and firm .
the expulsion of fluid from the genital area .
a physiological phenomenon where the clitoris becomes enlarged and firm .
a spontaneous erection of the clitoris during sleep or when waking up .
a spontaneous erection of the penis during sleep or when waking up .
an expulsion of fluid from or near the vagina during or before an orgasm .
the second stage of ejaculation during which orgasm occurs and the bulbospongiosus muscle squeezes strongly continuously ,  forcing semen to move from the ejaculatory ducts into the urethra .
any sort of ejaculatory behavior or process considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
inability to ejaculate ,  usually for pathological reasons .
a condition in which ejaculation is painful .
any of various disorders affecting ejaculation .
pain related to any of various forms of sexual function  ( not just sexual intercourse )  .
pain related to the process of ejaculation .
any sort of erectile behavior or process considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
a condition in which erection is painful .
ejaculation during which the semen enters the bladder instead of the penis .
squeezing of the urethra at the base of the penis during coitus immediately prior to ejaculation in order to induce retrograde ejaculation as a form of rudimentary contraception .
ejaculatory behavior or activity considered within healthy boundaries .
any sort of ejaculatory behavior or process change considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
ejaculation in which total ejaculate volume is increased below what is considered normal and / or healthy .
ejaculation in which total ejaculate volume is decreased below what is considered normal and / or healthy .
spontaneity of erection considered nonnormative ,  unhealthy ,  or inappropriate .
ejaculation in the absence of sexual stimulation for any of various reasons .
a condition in which ejaculation happens in a shorter period of time than that typically considered normal or healthy .
any of various disorders which display premature ejaculation as a symptom .
any sort of erectile behavior or process change considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
increased frequency of erection considered nonnormative or unhealthy .
decreased frequency of erection considered nonnormative or unhealthy .
increased duration of erection considered nonnormative or unhealthy .
a condition in which ejaculation takes a prolonged period of time typically considered unnormal or unhealthy .
a transgender person who is monosexual .
a transgender person who is polysexual .
a transgender person who is gynephilic .
a transgender person who is androphilic .
an emission of biological material .
an emission produced by the penis .
an involuntary penile emission which takes place during sleep .
an emission of seminal fluid .
a penile emission which mimics seminal emission .
a member of one's extended family ,  i .e .
a member of one's immediate family ,  such as one's spouse ,  parents ,  siblings ,  and children .
a child of one of a parent's siblings or their descendents .
a child of a child .
a parent of a parent .
a child of a sibling .
a sibling of a parent .
construction of the chest wall following damage to it or its destruction .
a caretaker and / or immediate progenitor of a child .
a spouse or other person with whom one shares a domestic ,  romantic or sexual bond .
a person who shares a parent .
surgical procedures used to reconstruct ,  restore ,  or improve defective ,  damaged ,  or missing structures .
plastic surgery to shape any of various areas of the body .
a child whose parents are in a heterosexual relationship or who are of different sexes and married to one another .
a child whose parents are in a gay relationship or who are of the same sex and married to one another .
individual who is unable to live safely with his or her family ,  usually due to abuse or neglect in the family home .
a child legally belonging to particular parents who may or may not be biological parents .
individual who becomes a child of a family by means of legal action .
a child born to their parents ,  being genetically related to them and / or birthed by them .
a child born to someone via the process of surrogacy .
the offspring of one's spouse ,  but not one's own offspring ,  neither biological nor through adoption .
a partner in marriage .
a person who is not one's biological sibling ,  but was legally and socially raised as if they were .
a sibling through being in foster care of the same parent or parents .
a sibling ,  usually either biological or adoptive ,  who is legally considered as such .
the child of one's stepparent from another relationship .
a person with whom someone has had sex ;  a sex partner .
a person who is the partner of a bisexual person .
a person who is the partner of a gay person .
the romantic and / or sexual partner of a transgender person .
the romantic and / or sexual partner of a cisgender person .
a person who is the partner of a heterosexual person .
a person whose partner is a transmasculine person .
a person whose partner is a transfeminine person .
a person whose partner is a nonbinary person .
a person whose partner is a transgender woman .
a person whose partner is a transgender man .
a person who has adopted a child ,  as opposed to a biological parent or parents .
a person from whom a child inherits one half of their dna .
an adult who cares for a child who has been placed in foster care .
a parent ,  usually either biological or adoptive ,  who is legally considered as such .
a parent who is the only guardian of offspring .
a person who provides biological material  ( egg and / or sperm )  ,  but not necessarily genetic material ,  or otherwise assists in the creation of a child  ( such as carrying the pregnancy to term for an egg / sperm combo that is not their own )  .
a romantic partner for life .
a partner who is asexual .
a partner through non - marital means or to whom one is not married .
relatives unrelated by birth and / or marriage ,  but with which one has an emotionally significant relationship similar to that of a family relationship .
an adult person who is transfeminine ,  usually a transgender woman .
a social behavior that benefits other people or society as a whole ,  such as helping ,  sharing ,  donating ,  co - operating ,  and volunteering .
a disorder diagnosed in childhood or adolescence age group characterized by aggressive behavior ,  deceitfulness ,  destruction of property or violation of rules that is persistent and repetitive ,  and within a one year period .
conduct disorder characterized by persistent dissocial or aggressive behavior .
a classification of disorders in the diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders  ( dsm )  that are usually diagnosed in infancy ,  childhood or adolescence and are characterized by an individual's inability to behave in a cooperative manner .
someone who advocates for human rights .
someone who advocates for minority rights .
someone who advocates for lgbtqia +  rights .
someone who advocates for gay rights .
someone who advocates for bisexual rights .
someone who advocates for transgender rights .
someone who advocates for intersex rights .
a person of a dominant or privileged racial ,  gender ,  sexual or other identity who support and seek to further the causes of those who lack such privilege  ( such as people of color or lgbtq people )  .
a straight ally or heterosexual ally is a heterosexual person who supports equal civil rights ,  gender equality ,  lgbtq social movements ,  and challenges homophobia ,  biphobia and transphobia .
one who advocates for lgbtqia +  people .
a person who advocates for protection of the natural environment .
someone who advocates for sex workers' rights .
someone who advocates for women's rights .
a person who promotes suffrage .
persons who utilize the internet in order to support any of various forms of activism .
persons who advocate for any of various political changes and / or reforms .
a patterned network of relationships constituting a coherent whole that exist between individuals ,  groups ,  and institutions .
social structures that establish the number of genders and their associated gender roles in society .
the gender binary is the classification of sex and gender into two distinct ,  opposite and disconnected forms of masculine and feminine .
application of gender binarism onto bodily anatomy ,  most notably genitalia .
a system which includes a category  ( a gender )  ,  present in societies which recognize three or more genders ,  which is neither male nor female ;  in some societies ,  the category may contain individuals who are intersex or androgynous ,  while other societies may categorize transgender people into it .
a system which includes a category  ( a gender )  ,  present in societies which recognize four or more genders ,  which is neither male nor female ;  in some societies ,  the category may contain individuals who are intersex or androgynous ,  while other societies may categorize transgender people into it .
a system which includes a category  ( a gender )  ,  present in societies which recognize five or more genders ,  which is neither male nor female ;  in some societies ,  the category may contain individuals who are intersex or androgynous ,  while other societies may categorize transgender people into it .
a person expressing and / or identifying with any of various genders .
an american indian person  ( native american or first nation )  who is gender variant ,  belonging to any of various cultural gender identities or modern constructions classified as lgbtqia +  .
an ojibwe or manitoba saulteaux person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a southern piegan person who belongs to a traditional non - binary gender role and who ,  in modern times ,  might be assigned male at birth .
plastic surgery to shape the chest ,  usually the chest wall .
a bella coola person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a cree person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a crow person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an cheyenne person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
plastic surgery to masculinize the shape the chest ,  primarily for transgender men and transmasculine persons .
plastic surgery to shape the chest in cases of gynecomastia .
a person belonging to any of various zapotec cultures of oaxaca who is considered feminine  ( dressing and behaving in a way usually associated with femininity in those cultures )  and who ,  in modern times ,  would likely be assigned male at birth .
a mohave person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a yuit or alutiiq person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
any of various surgeries which aim to feminize the chest region .
a yup'ik ,  alutiiq ,  or chugach person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a cherokee person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities .
a gros ventre person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an aleut person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a zapotec person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a lakota person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
an atsugewi person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a deg hit'an person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a wailaki person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a salinan person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a luiseño person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a northern pomo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a cocopa person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a quechan person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a tlingit person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a mi'kmaq person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a chickasaw or choctaw person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a chickasaw or choctaw person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an cheyenne person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
an hopi person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an arapaho person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an kawaiisu person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a tübatulabal person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
augmentation mammaplasty performed for the purposes of feminization ,  especially for transgender women and transfeminine persons .
a mohave person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a sauk or meskwaki person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an illinois person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a wishram person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an illinois person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a maricopa gender categorization or role ;  persons are usually considered assigned male at birth and perform tasks and occupations generally associated with women .
a cree person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a cree person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a huchnom person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a tsimshian person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a zuni person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a quinault person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a laguna pueblo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an acoma pueblo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a pawnee person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a ktunaxa person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an arikara person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a quechan person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a tewa person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities .
a maricopa person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
an acjachemen person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a zuni person who takes on social and ceremonial roles usually performed by women in their culture and ,  in modern times ,  would likely be assigned male at birth .
a southern tiwa person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a yana person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a potawatomi person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a flathead or interior salish person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a tsimshian person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a mandan person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
the intentional infliction of physical or mental suffering upon an individual or individuals ,  including the torture of animals .
torture which is sexual in nature .
a kaw or otoe person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an omaha ,  osage ,  or ponca person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a hidatsa person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a karankawa or klamath person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
sexual torture involving the genitalia .
a navajo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities ,  regardless of sex assigned at birth  ( this category also includes intersex persons )  .
a cree person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a cree person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a mescalero or apache person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a deg hit'an person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a western shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
an ojibwe person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a southern maidu person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a miwok person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a patwin person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an incan person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a blackfoot or southern peigan person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a ho - chunk person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an inuit person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a sanpoil person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be considered intersex .
a maidu or southern maidu person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities .
a bella coola person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a southern pomo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a western mono or mono paiute person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a waksachi person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a western shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a western shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a quinault person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
an aleut person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a ktunaxa person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a yawdanchi or yokut person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an michahai person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an tachi person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an kocheyali person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a shoshone or northern shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a bannock or lemhi person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an goshute person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a southern ute person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a klamath person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a chugach person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a bdsm sexual activity involving the application of pain or constriction to the breasts .
a northern paiute person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a southern paiute person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an alutiiq or yuit person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a luiseño person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a bannock ,  lemhi ,  northern shoshone ,  or shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a nomlaki person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a kumeyaay or tipai person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a cocopah person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a miami person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a sahaptian person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
in yurok culture ,  a person who lives as a woman ,  particularly as a shaman ,  that ,  in modern times ,  would likely be assigned male at birth .
an akimel o'odham or tohono o'odham person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a two - spirit ;  a male - bodied person who has a feminine or third - gender / bigender gender role .
a two - spirit ;  a male - bodied person who has a feminine gender role .
a two - spirit ;  a male - bodied person who has a feminine or third - gender / bigender gender role and is regarded as having special spiritual talents .
a wappo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be referred to as intersex today .
a tlingit person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a person assigned male at birth who occupies a feminine gender role in takelma society .
a two - spirit ;  a person assigned male at birth who perform tasks usually associated with women in atsugewi culture .
a two - spirit or cultural gender identity ;  such persons are typically considered assigned female at birth but occupy mostly masculine roles .
a group of culturally related native american tribes in the southwestern united states ,  which include the chiricahua ,  jicarilla ,  lipan ,  mescalero ,  salinero ,  plains and western apache .
a native american people originally occupying what is now the southeastern united states  ( modern - day alabama ,  florida ,  mississippi and louisiana )  .
a related group of indigenous peoples of the southeastern woodlands .
groups of native american tribes and first nations peoples in north america .
a term used in the eastern polynesian language cook islands māori ;  sometimes translated as "behave ( s )  like a woman" .
a gender or social role observed among the lugbara ;  the word translates literally as "like men" and is used to refer to infertile ,  prepubertal and postmenopausal women as well as those who do not engage in sexual intercourse with their husbands or other men .
a sexual activity involving application of pain or constriction to the penis and / or testicles .
a gender category observed among the maale people of ethiopia .
primary or exclusive sexual attraction toward members of a specific age group ,  as with pedophilia or gerontophilia .
sexual attraction based on attraction to partners or potential partners of a different age group .
a fetish involving or derived from sexual attraction to those of a certain age group or behaviors characteristic of said group ,  usually in the context of sexual role play .
sexual attraction toward the elderly .
sexual attraction to adults .
primary or exclusive sexual attraction to prepubescent and pubescent children by an adult .
any of various disorders primarily characterized by pedohebephilia .
the primary sexual attraction of adults to very young children  ( defined by various studies as 0–4 )  .
adult sexual attraction primarily towards pubescent children .
primary adult sexual attraction towards late pubescent or postpubescent adolescents .
a sexual preference for middle - aged adults .
homosexual relations in which partners are of different ages ,  usually in which one partner is an adolescent and the other is an adult ,  although this is not always the case .
homosexual relations in which each partner plays a different gender role  ( exemplified ,  for instance ,  in stereotypical north american lesbian butch / femme relationships )  .
homosexual relations in which age bears no relevance and both partners play the same socially - accepted sex role as heterosexual persons of their own sex .
erotic love ,  sexually expressed or chaste ,  between a man and an adolescent boy .
pederasty in ancient greece was a socially acknowledged romantic relationship between an adult male  ( the erastes )  and a younger male  ( the eromenos )  usually in his teens .
athenian pederasty entailed a formal bond between an adult man and an adolescent boy outside his immediate family ,  consisting of loving and often sexual relations .
cretan pederasty was an archaic form of pederasty that involved the ritual kidnapping  ( harpagmos )  of a noble boy by an adult male of the aristocratic class ,  with the consent of the boy's father .
a bdsm sexual activity involving the application of pain or pressure to a vulva or vagina ,  typically in the context of sadomasochism .
a filipino identity which is considered nonnormative in terms of gender and / or sexuality .
a woman who is accorded the status of a man without disrupting the patriarchal status quo .
women who take a vow of chastity and wear male clothing in order to live as men in patriarchal balkan society .
women who take a vow of chastity and wear male clothing in order to live as men in patriarchal northern albanian society .
women who take a vow of chastity and wear male clothing in order to live as men in patriarchal montenegrin society .
persons who cross - dress for the purposes of performance .
persons who cross - dress for cultural reasons or purposes .
persons who cross - dress for the purposes of disguise .
persons who cross - dress during wartime under various circumstances and for various motives .
race is a characteristic of an individual defined by some culturally - defined combination of heritable phenotypic characteristics ,  geographic ancestry ,  physical appearance ,  ethnicity ,  and social status .
coitus by circumstance or location .
sexual intercourse in water or underwater .
types of coitus in relation to the given partners' marital status .
sexual intercourse which takes place on horseback or ,  rarely ,  sexual intercourse in which one partner acts out the role of a horse .
an erotic or relational context is entirely defined by the people involved and by their mood and interests at the time of play .
role play in which at least one of the participants dresses to resemble and assumes the mannerisms and character of an equine animal .
sexual role play in which one of the participants acts out canine mannerisms and behaviors ,  which are sometimes associated with leather culture .
sexual role play in which a person dresses to resemble and assumes the mannerisms and character of a kitten or cat ,  a characteristic of which is that it keeps some independence and ,  as part of the fantasy ,  might retaliate against the partner trying to tame / train them .
the introduction of polymeric organic silicon based material via injection .
vaginal intercourse in which the vaginal partner assumes a knee - chest position and the penile partner kneels behind them ,  entering the vagina from the rear .
any of various sex positions in which the penile partner enters the vagina from the rear .
extramarital coitus that is considered objectionable on social ,  religious ,  moral ,  or legal grounds .
the state of voluntarily being unmarried ,  sexually abstinent ,  or both ,  usually for religious reasons .
not engaging in sexual intercourse or other activities by one's own will .
not engaging in sexual intercourse or other activities against one's own volition .
the state of refraining from premarital and extramarital sex ,  for primarily religious and / or cultural reasons .
a type of prosthetic created for the purpose of simulating an intact human hymen .
refraining from sexual intercourse in the postpartum period .
primarily sexual frustration experienced by those who label themselves as "incels"  ( involuntary celibates )  .
a shift ,  alteration ,  modification ,  or evolution of human behavior and culture ,  which over time ,  results in measurable consequences on societal values and norms .
a social movement is a type of group action .
a type of movement or political ideology which seeks to increase the acceptability of individual characteristics of one's identity  ( such as race ,  ethnic group ,  gender ,  and sexual orientation )  .
collection of normative beliefs and values that an individual or group holds for other than purely epistemic reasons .
an ethical set of ideals ,  principles ,  doctrines ,  myths ,  or symbols of a social movement ,  institution ,  class ,  or large group that explains how society should work ,  and offers some political and cultural blueprint for a certain social order .
a political ideology focused upon a particular collective or group identity or identities .
a political ideology based upon a person's belonging to a particular age group .
a political ideology based upon a person's belonging to a particular gender category .
feminism is a range of political movements ,  ideologies ,  and social movements that share a common goal: to define ,  establish ,  and achieve political ,  economic ,  personal ,  and social equality of sexes .
masculism or masculinism may variously refer to advocacy of the rights or needs of men and boys ;  and the adherence to or promotion of attributes  ( opinions ,  values ,  attitudes ,  habits )  regarded as typical of men and boys .
a political ideology based upon a person's belonging to a particular ethnic group .
a political ideology based upon a person's belonging to a particular religious group .
a political ideology based upon a person's belonging to any of various lgbtqia +  identities .
social movements that advocate for lgbtqia +  people in society .
organizations and political strategies utilized by gay men and lesbians prior to the gay liberation movement of the late 1960s .
a social and political movement of the late 1960s through the mid - 1980s that urged lesbians and gay men to engage in radical direct action ,  and to counter societal shame with gay pride .
lgbtq movements advocating for civil and / or human rights .
gay and lesbian movements advocating for civil and / or human rights .
the transgender rights movement is a movement to promote transgender rights and to eliminate discrimination and violence against transgender people regarding housing ,  employment ,  public accommodations ,  education ,  and health care .
a series of political campaigns for reforms on issues such as reproductive rights ,  domestic violence ,  maternity leave ,  equal pay ,  women's suffrage ,  sexual harassment ,  and sexual violence ,  all of which fall under the label of feminism and the feminist movement .
feminisms which put women into the perspectives of 18th and 19th century liberal political philosophies ,  marxism ,  and the 20th century anti - colonial political ideologies .
feminisms which aimed at the microinequities experienced by women in everyday life and the secondary places they were assigned in society in the 1970s ,  specifically .
feminisms of the 1980s and 1990s which attack the ideas of social order and its various categories and hierarchies .
feminist ideology which takes into account the development of the global economy and globalization as a whole .
an individualistic form of feminist theory ,  which focuses on women's ability to maintain their equality through their own actions and choices .
a philosophical variant of feminism .
a branch of feminism which rose in the 1960s and 1970s as an offshoot of the feminist movement and new left that focuses upon the interconnectivity of the patriarchy and capitalism .
lesbian feminism ,  much like feminism ,  lesbian and gay studies ,  and queer theory ,  is characterized by the ideas of contestation and revision .
feminism based in the tradition ,  theory ,  or ideas posed by psychoanalytic theory .
a perspective within feminism that calls for a radical reordering of society in which male supremacy is eliminated in all social and economic contexts .
a theory that feminist social science should be practiced from the standpoint of women or particular groups of women ,  as some scholars  ( such as patricia hill collins and dorothy smith )  say that they are better equipped to understand some aspects of the world .
any of many feminisms which study men and masculinity with a critical lens ;  alternatively ,  men involved in feminism or who are feminists .
feminist ideologies which incorporate ideas based on structurally intertwined relationships of gender and ethnicity .
a mix of post structuralism ,  postmodernism ,  and french feminism .
a framework which approaches aspects of culture from the viewpoint of socially constructured queerness ,  i .e .
feminism which analyzes the structure of a gender system as a whole in relationship to the organization of society .
a social movement consisting of groups and organizations of men and their allies who focus on gender issues and whose activities range from self - help and support to lobbying and activism .
a type of movement or political ideology which seeks to increase the acceptability of characteristics of one's gender identity .
a loose grouping of ideologies associated with indigenous peoples .
nationalism is a political ,  social ,  and economic system characterized by the promotion of the interests of a particular nation ,  especially with the aim of gaining and maintaining sovereignty  ( self - governance )  over the homeland .
the relationship of nationalism to a particular religious belief ,  dogma ,  or affiliation .
christianity - affiliated religious nationalism .christian nationalists primarily focus on internal politics ,  such as passing laws that reflect their view of christianity and its role in political and social life .
a form of nationalism wherein the nation is defined in terms of ethnicity .
nationalism that is affected and impacted by gender .
an ideology that favors state interventionism over other market mechanisms ,  with policies such as domestic control of the economy ,  labor ,  and capital formation ,  even if this requires the imposition of tariffs and other restrictions on the movement of labor ,  goods and capital .
an ideology that advocates a racial definition of national identity .
black nationalism is a type of nationalism which espouses the belief that black people are a nation and seeks to develop and maintain a black identity .
white nationalism is a type of nationalism or pan - nationalism that holds the belief that white people are a race and seeks to develop and maintain a white national identity .
a form of nationalism based on the belief that all inhabitants of a particular territory should share a common national identity ,  regardless of their ethnic ,  linguistic ,  religious ,  cultural and other differences .
a form of nationalism based on the belief that all inhabitants of a particular distinctive sub - sovereign region should share a common national identity ,  regardless of their ethnic ,  linguistic ,  religious ,  cultural and other differences .
nationalism based upon lgbtqia +  identities .
queer nationalism is a phenomenon related both to the gay and lesbian liberation movement and nationalism .
homonationalism is the favorable association between a nationalist ideology and lgbtq people or their rights .
a form of nationalism in which the nation is defined by a shared culture .
an aggressive radical form of nationalism or ethnic nationalism that incorporates autonomous ,  heightened ethnic consciousness and patriotic sentiments with atavistic fears and hatreds focused on "other" or foreign peoples ,  framing a belief in expansion or recovery of formerly owned territories through militaristic means .
an ideology of extending a country's rule over foreign nations ,  often by military force or by gaining political and economic control of other areas .
a form of extreme patriotism and nationalism and a belief in national superiority and glory .
an aggressive or fanatical patriotism ,  particularly during time of war ,  in support of one's own nation  ( e .g . ,  government ,  culture ,  etc . ) 
a term used for the political notion that welfare benefits should be restricted to certain groups ,  particularly to the natives of a country as opposed to immigrants .
chauvinism which believes in the superiority of a gender category over another .
male chauvinism is the belief that men are superior to women .
female chauvinism is the belief that women are superior to men .
an extreme form of nationalism that promotes absolute devotion to the interests of one's own state or people above all others .
fascism is a form of radical authoritarian ultranationalism ,  characterized by dictatorial power ,  forcible suppression of opposition and strong regimentation of society and of the economy ,  which came to prominence in early 20th - century europe .
former state in north central germany .
a country in central europe that existed from 1947 to 1989 ,  and the predecessor of the modern democratic republic of poland .
a political ideology that combines the political and economic doctrines of fascism and clericalism .
a theoretical political ideology in which an authoritarian government would require individuals to put environmental issues above all other interests .
a post - world war ii political ideology which usually includes various fascist elements such as ultranationalism ,  racial supremacy ,  populism ,  authoritarianism ,  nativism ,  and xenophobia .
a political ideology most often associated with the nazi party  ( the national socialist german workers' party )  in nazi germany and other far - right groups expressing similar goals and desires .
post - world war ii political ideologies seeking to implement the ideas of nazism .
the racist belief that white people are superior to people of other races and therefore should be dominant over them .
a racial supremacist belief which maintains that black people are superior to people of other races .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the african - american pansexual community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the african - american bisexual community .
a term used in some aboriginal australian and torres strait islander communities to refer to transgender men or other persons assigned female at birth who live their lives as male ,  irrespective of their medical or surgical path .
a term used in some aboriginal australian and torres strait islander communities to refer to transgender women or other persons assigned male at birth who live their lives as female ,  irrespective of their medical or surgical path .
a gender role and / or identity that is part of samoan culture .
tongan persons assigned male at birth who are characterized as feminine .
a gender role observed for centuries as part of neapolitan society ;  the identity may be characterized as overlapping with the feminine cisgender gay identity or the transgender female identity ,  but is usually considered separate .
a gender role or category in thailand ,  which often overlaps significantly with being a transgender woman or a feminine gay man .
an alternative gender role or categorization referred to in oman and some parts of the arabian peninsula .
an extinct gender designation or category historically observed among the kamchadals ,  especially the itelmens .
an equivalent identity to kothi observed in kolkata .
an equivalent identity to kothi observed in cochin .
an equivalent identity to kothi observed in nepal .
an equivalent identity to kothi observed in pakistan .
a gender designation offered by the government of nepal in addition to male and female .
the introduction of polymeric organic silicon based material through the skin ,  as for breast augmentation or reconstruction .
administration of a drug through the skin .
a culturally specific gender identity in kanaka maoli  ( native hawaiian )  and maohi  ( tahitian )  cultures .
a gender role and category in the chamorro culture of the northern marianas islands ,  including guam .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the integumentary system .
a member of indonesia's traditional transfeminine third gender category .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the skin and subcutaneous tissue .
having an identity considered nonbinary or as falling under the nonbinary umbrella .
having a gender identity which fluctuates or switches  ( such as being male sometimes and female other times )  .
having a multiple gender identities simultaneously .
having a gender identity that is genderless or having no gender identity whatsoever .
having a gender identity which overlaps somewhat with other gender identities but not in their entirety .
having a gender identity which includes part of another gender identity ,  but not all of it  ( for example ,  identifying somewhat with female ,  but not entirely )  .
having a gender identity which is neutral ,  placed between other gender identities ,  such as between male and female .
having a gender identity which overlaps with other gender identities ,  but doesn't necessarily fit into them .
having two gender identities .
having three gender identities .
having more than three gender identities ;  more broadly ,  having more than one gender identity .
having a gender identity which varies over time ,  usually between male or female ,  although not always .
having a gender identity which partially overlaps with a particular gender identity ,  such as feeling partially female but not entirely .
a gender identity  ( or lack thereof )  which may be described as lacking gender ,  genderless ,  gender neutral ,  neutrois ,  or unknown gender ,  among other descriptions .
a branch of knowledge .
fields of inquiry in human constructs and concerns as opposed to natural processes and social relations .
the view that every entity has a set of attributes that are necessary to its identity and function .
a group of one or more populations of an organism or organisms seen by taxonomists to form a unit .
a system that is composed of non - physical objects ,  i .e .
a contemplative and rational type of abstract or generalizing thinking about a phenomenon ,  or the results of such thinking .
a set of beliefs that explains or accounts for a general philosophy or specific branch of philosophy .
philosophical theories falling under the scope of the field of metaphysics .
analytical frameworks ,  or paradigms ,  that are used to study and interpret social phenomena .
statements of how and why particular facts about the social world are related .
perspectives in sociology and social psychology that emphasize a materialist interpretation of history ,  dialectical method of analysis ,  a critical stance toward existing social arrangements ,  and political program of revolution or ,  at least ,  reform .
the reflective assessment and critique of society and culture by applying knowledge from the social sciences and the humanities .
an explanation of an aspect of the natural world that can be repeatedly tested and verified in accordance with the scientific method ,  using accepted protocols of observation ,  measurement ,  and evaluation of results .
scientific theories falling under the scope of the field of biology .
any of various theories in the realm of biology which are considered defunct ,  disproven ,  and / or obsolete .
a set of beliefs and practices that aim to improve the genetic quality of a human population by excluding  ( through a variety of morally criticized means )  certain genetic groups judged to be inferior ,  and promoting other genetic groups judged to be superior .
the hypothesis that an organism can pass on characteristics that it has acquired through use or disuse during its lifetime to its offspring .
a widely influential concept at the interface of the social and biological sciences in the 19th century which theorized that civilization might be in decline and that the causes of decline lay in biological change .
a theory of biological evolution developed by the english naturalist charles darwin  ( 1809–1882 )  and others ,  stating that all species of organisms arise and develop through the natural selection of small ,  inherited variations that increase the individual's ability to compete ,  survive ,  and reproduce .
any of various scientific theories addressing parts of the phenomenon known as biological evolution .
the extension of feminism into theoretical ,  fictional ,  or philosophical discourse .
the systematic study of the nature of literature and of the methods for analyzing literature .
a branch of critical theory that focuses on human–object interactions in literature and culture .
humanities fields that form the basis of humanities studies ;  i .e .
humanities fields that apply knowledge in specific contexts .
studies or areas of the humanities which utilize specialized knowledge from multiple domains .
a field of interdisciplinary study covering multiple areas under the umbrellas of gender and sexuality .
gender studies is a field for interdisciplinary study devoted to gender identity and gendered representation as central categories of analysis .
an interdisciplinary academic field devoted to topics concerning men ,  masculinity ,  feminism ,  gender ,  and politics .
the academic field which examines topics concerning women ,  feminism ,  and the relationship of gender and politics .
an interdisciplinary academic field of study that is focused on girlhood and girls' culture that combines advocacy and the direct perspectives and thoughts of girls themselves .
an interdisciplinary academic field of study that is focused on boyhood and boys' culture .
an interdisciplinary field of study analyzing the cultural ,  historical ,  and interpersonal impact of the lesbian experience on society .
the study of issues relating to sexual orientation ,  sexual fetishes ,  kink ,  and other aspects of sexuality and sexual diversity .
the study of issues relating to sexual orientation and gender identity usually focusing on lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  transgender ,  gender dysphoria ,  asexual ,  queer ,  questioning ,  intersex people and cultures .
an interdisciplinary field of study analyzing the cultural ,  historical ,  and interpersonal impact of the gay and lesbian experience on society .
the subfield of queer studies dealing specifically with transgender people .
an interdisciplinary field of study analyzing the cultural ,  historical ,  and interpersonal impact of gay men's experiences on society .
an interdisciplinary field of study analyzing the cultural ,  historical ,  and interpersonal impact of the bisexual experience on society .
an umbrella term for analyzing lesbian ,  gay ,  and bisexual experiences .
an interdisciplinary field of study analyzing the cultural ,  historical ,  and interpersonal impact of the intersex experience on society .
an adolescent woman who is bisexual .
an adolescent man who is bisexual .
a field of history that looks at the lived experience of the past .
a branch of social history which studies instances of lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  and transgender behavior and peoples throughout different cultures ,  with special regard to the persecution of such people .
structured data elements used to describe other data .
a morpheme  ( the elementary unit of morphosyntax )  that can appear only as part of a larger expression .
a morpheme that can stand alone .
a morpheme that is attached to a word stem to form a new word or word form .
an affix which is placed before the stem of a word .
an affix which is placed after the stem of a word .
a type of bound morpheme that cannot be assigned an independent meaning or grammatical function ,  but nonetheless serves to distinguish one word from another .
a morpheme that ,  when combined with a root ,  change the semantic meaning or the part of speech of the affected word .
morphemes modify the tense ,  aspect ,  mood ,  person ,  or number of a verb ,  or the number ,  gender ,  or case of a noun ,  adjective ,  or pronoun ,  without affecting the word's meaning or class  ( part of speech )  .
any of various classes of lexical items or units  ( such as words or phrases )  .
a set of words that have similar formal properties .
a category of words  ( or ,  more generally ,  of lexical items )  that have similar grammatical properties .
a word that functions as the name of some specific thing or set of things ,  such as living creatures ,  objects ,  places ,  actions ,  qualities ,  states of existence ,  or ideas .
a type of function word or expression that stands in for  ( expresses the same content as )  another word ,  phrase ,  clause or sentence where the meaning is recoverable from the context .
a word that substitutes for a noun or noun phrase .
a pronoun that is associated primarily with a particular grammatical person – first person  ( as i )  ,  second person  ( as you )  ,  or third person  ( as he ,  she ,  it ,  they )  .
a pronoun which indicates a relationship of possession in a broad sense .
an anaphoric pronoun that must be coreferential with another nominal  ( its antecedent )  within the same clause .
a pronoun which marks a type of subordinate clause called a relative clause while also modifying the referent in the main clause of a sentence .
a word used to indicate which entities are being referred to and to distinguish those entities from others .
any of various classes of linguistic items or items related to language .
a property of items within the grammar of a language .
a type of syntactic unit that theories of syntax assume .
a specific form of noun class system in which the division of noun classes forms an agreement system with another aspect of the language ,  such as adjectives ,  articles ,  pronouns ,  or verbs .
a grammatical gender which is neutral ,  usually in comparison to masculine and feminine .
a grammatical gender indicating animacy .
a grammatical gender indicating inanimacy .
a word class that commonly accepts the addition of new words .
a word class to which new words are very rarely added .
a word or expression that occurs as an utterance on its own and expresses a spontaneous feeling or reaction .
the class of syntactic words that are fundamentally relation inducing .
a word whose main role is to modify /  describe a noun or noun phrase .
a word  ( part of speech )  that in syntax conveys an action  ( bring ,  read ,  walk ,  run ,  learn )  ,  an occurrence  ( happen ,  become )  ,  or a state of being  ( be ,  exist ,  stand )  .
a word ,  phrase ,  or affix that occurs together with a noun or noun phrase and serves to express the reference of that noun or noun phrase in the context .
an article used to refer to a particular member of a group or class .
an article that indicates that its noun is not a particular one identifiable to the listener .
a type of graft surgery involving the transplantation of skin .
a personal pronoun that is used as the subject of a verb .
a personal pronoun that is used typically as a grammatical object: the direct or indirect object of a verb ,  or the object of a preposition .
a surgical technique that removes hair follicles from one part of the body ,  called the donor site ,  to a bald or balding part of the body known as the recipient site .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the head and / or neck .
a pronoun which is associated with or otherwise related to a particular grammatical gender and / or personal gender  ( the gender of a person )  .
a pronoun which is associated with a particular grammatical gender or personal gender  ( the gender of a person )  .
a pronoun which is not associated with a particular grammatical gender or personal gender  ( the gender of a person )  .
a pronoun which is associated with either the masculine grammatical gender or a masculine personal gender  ( the gender of a person )  .
a pronoun which is associated with either the feminine grammatical gender or a feminine personal gender  ( the gender of a person )  .
a grammatical gender which is epicene .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the head .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the neck .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the forehead .
a gender - neutral pronoun that was utilized historically .
a gender - neutral pronoun that is specific to a certain dialect of a language .
a gender - neutral pronoun that was invented recently or it otherwise considered a neologism .
a pronoun which is associated with either the neuter grammatical gender or a neutral personal gender  ( the gender of a person )  .
a pronoun which is associated with either the epicene grammatical gender or an epicene personal gender  ( the gender of a person )  .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by michael spivak in 1983 .
any of various variations upon michael spivak's neologistic pronouns ,  especially those created in 1991 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by christine m . elverson in 1975 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by charles crozat converse in 1884 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 1982 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 1979 .
a set of neologistic pronouns utilized by kate bornstein .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 2000 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 1997 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created around 1973 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created around 1980 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created around 2012 by an internet user "dicebox" .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 2017 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by mary orovan in 1970 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by peter david .
construction of the forehead following damage to it or its destruction .
a set of neologistic pronouns which includes "he'er" ,  "him'er" ,  "his'er" ,  and "his'ers" .
the branch of medical science that treats disease or injury by operative procedures .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by james rogers in january 1890 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 1920 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 1977 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 1977 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created in 1980 .
branches of surgery organized by specialty ;  a specialty in surgery is a branch of surgical practice that is focused on a defined group of patients ,  diseases ,  skills ,  or philosophy .
the branch of surgery concerned with therapeutic or cosmetic reformation of tissue .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by john w . dozier around 1874 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by francis h . williams in 1884 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by edgar alfred stevens in 1884 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by josiah w . leeds .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by george winslow pierce in 1890 .
the branch of surgery concerned with procedures involving the head and neck .
a branch of medicine dealing with the use of surgery to treat diseases of the chest and lungs .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by buwei yang chao .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by frank colby in 1951 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by june arnold in 1973 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by william cowan in 1973 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by donald k . darnell in 1976 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by werner low in 1977 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by jeffrey j . smith in 1977 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by aline hoffman in 1979 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by jerome ch'en in 1979 .
a set of neologistic pronouns created by steven schaufele in 1984 .
a transgender woman who is heterosexual ,  i .e .
a transgender man who is heterosexual ,  i .e .
a man who is cisgender and heterosexual .
a woman who is cisgender and heterosexual .
an ethnic group native to england who speak the english language .
a romance ethnic group who are identified with the country of france .
a surgical specialty concerned with surgical treatment of the diseases of the urinary tract and urogenital system .
a dialect employed by a population for public communications ,  or as the dialect of a language that has undergone codification of grammar and usage .
a dialect that has not historically benefited from the institutional support or sanction that a standard dialect has .
the variety of english that has undergone regularization and is associated with formal schooling ,  language assessment ,  and official print publications ,  such as public - service announcements and newspapers of record ,  etc .
dialects organized by the language they belong to .
any of various dialects of the english language .
the set of varieties of the english language native to great britain .
the set of varieties of the english language native to the united states .
any of various dialects of english spoken primarily in north america .
any of various dialects of english spoken primarily in europe .
the set of varieties of the english language native to canada .
any of various dialects of english spoken primarily in oceania .
the set of varieties of the english language native to australia .
any of various dialects of english spoken primarily in asia .
the regional variety of the english language spoken in the republic of india ,  and among the indian diaspora elsewhere in the world .
a bangladeshi variety of english heavily influenced by bengali .
a variety of english principally used in nepal that is heavily influenced by nepalese .
the group of english language varieties spoken and written in pakistan .
the variety of the english language as it is spoken in sri lanka .
any of various dialects of english spoken primarily in africa .
the set of english dialects native to south africans .
a dialect of english spoken in nigeria .
any variety of english native to the philippines ,  including those used by the media and the vast majority of educated filipinos .
the set of varieties of the english language native to scotland .
the set of varieties of the english language native to wales .
the variant of the english language spoken and written by most english - speaking new zealanders .
the variety of the english language spoken in singapore ,  of which there are two main forms ,  standard singapore english and singapore colloquial english  ( better known as singlish )  .
any of various dialects of american english specific to particular ethnic groups or racial categories .
the set of english dialects primarily spoken by most black people in the united states .
the variety of english natively spoken ,  particularly in urban communities ,  by most working -  and middle - class african americans and some black canadians .
the variety of american english that has undergone regularization and is associated with formal schooling ,  language assessment ,  and official print publications ,  such as public - service announcements and newspapers of record ,  etc .
any of various regional dialects of american english .
a regional dialect or collection of dialects of american english spoken throughout the southern united states ,  though increasingly in more rural areas and primarily by white southerners .
discrimination against person's of a given ethnicity or ethnicities .
discrimination based on age .
unfair treatment of an individual based solely on their use of language .
treating of a person or group differently because of the particular beliefs which they hold about a religion .
discrimination against a person or persons based on socially constructed racial categories .
a form of institutional discrimination against individuals of a given group which has the effect of restricting their opportunities .
discrimination against persons' based on their gender role ,  identity ,  and / or expression .
discrimination based on a person's sex or gender .
stereotyping and discrimination against individuals or groups on the basis of their age .
discrimination relating to social class .
discrimination or prejudice that is based on social class .
discrimination against persons based on their disability status .
discrimination and social prejudice against people with disabilities or who are perceived to have disabilities .
systematic discrimination against young persons .
the discrimination against older people in favor of younger persons .
the social practice of visually underrepresenting older people or misrepresenting them in a prejudiced way .
the prejudices faced by older adults in the digital world .
a form of racism expressed in the practice of social and political institutions .
pseudoscientific belief that empirical evidence exists to support or justify racism  ( racial discrimination )  ,  racial inferiority ,  or racial superiority .
discrimination related to a person or persons' caste .
discrimination based on a person's caste .
discrimination based on one's sexual orientation .
the belief that one set of sexual behaviors is intrinsically superior to another set of sexual behaviors ,  or prejudice and discrimination based on that belief .
the hatred of ,  contempt for ,  or prejudice against men or boys in general .
the hatred of ,  contempt for ,  or prejudice against women or girls .
dislike or hatred of oneself ,  or being angry at or even prejudiced against oneself .
the general hatred ,  dislike ,  distrust or contempt of the human species or human nature .
an intense dislike or disgust of oneself .
the condition of being uninformed or uneducated .
a psychological construct ,  a mental and emotional entity that inheres in ,  or characterizes a person .
bias is disproportionate weight in favor of or against an idea or thing ,  usually in a way that is closed - minded ,  prejudicial ,  or unfair .
the attitude that something is the case or true .
a systematic pattern of deviation from norm or rationality in judgment .
biases which occur when a person is influenced by extraneous information .
the phenomenon of interpreting and judging phenomena by standards inherent to one's own culture .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the thyroid cartilage .
bias against lgbtqia +  people based on their identities ,  namely sexual orientation identity and gender identity .
bias against one based on their race .
discrimination against persons based on their physical appearance or physicality .
prejudice or discrimination on the grounds of a person's appearance .
exaggeration or preference of a person's features or appearance in relationship to political office .
bias against one based on their physical appearance .
bias against one based on their ethnicity .
bias against one based on their gender .
bias against gay people ,  in particular gay men .
bias against transgender people .
discrimination against a person or group on the basis of their sexual orientation or sexual behavior .
biases based on one's caste .
an affective feeling towards a person based on that person's perceived group membership .
discrimination based on one's mental health status or related conditions .
a system of attitudes ,  bias ,  and discrimination in favor of opposite - sex sexuality and relationships .
discrimination against non - cisgender  ( transgender )  persons .
discrimination against persons not adhering to binary gender norms ,  typically nonbinary persons .
discrimination against lgbtq persons .
a form of oppression that occurs due to race and gender .
the discrimination and subordination of a particular sex in academic institutions ,  particularly universities ,  due to the ideologies ,  practices and reinforcements that privilege one sex over another .
the internalization of assumptions ,  negative attitudes and stigma regarding homosexuality by individuals whom do not identify within the heteronormative spectrum and / or are categorized as sexual minorities to varying degrees .
sexism that occurs on an individual level .
the act of identifying as a man and discriminating against oneself and one's masculinity .
the act of identifying as a woman and discriminating against oneself and one's femininity .
the hatred of ,  contempt for ,  or prejudice against transgender women in general .
any discriminatory practices ,  statements ,  actions ,  etc . ,  based on a person's gender and / or sex that are present or occur in a place of employment .
prejudice based on one's status as lgbtqia +  .
a surgical procedure in which the thyroid cartilage is enlarged and masculinized to enhance the laryngeal prominence  ( the adam's apple )  .
a surgical procedure in which the thyroid cartilage is feminized ,  typically by reducing the size of the laryngeal prominence  ( the adam's apple )  .
a surgical procedure in which the thyroid cartilage is reduced in size by shaving down the cartilage through an incision in the throat ,  generally to aid those who are uncomfortable with the girth of their laryngeal prominence  ( adam's apple )  .
a specific phobia that involves a fear caused by the presence or thought of a specific animal that poses little or no danger at all .
any specific phobia involving some negative experience or experiences ,  such as the fear of the dark or the fear of small confined spaces .
a specific phobia involving some aspect of the environment ,  such as the fear of heights or the fear of water .
a range of negative attitudes and feelings toward homosexuality .
fear of ,  dislike of or prejudice against trans* people .
an aversion toward bisexuality and toward bisexual people as a social group or as individuals .
various forms of negativity towards lesbians as individuals ,  as couples ,  or as a social group .
homophobia against oneself supposedly caused by one's own repressed homosexuality .
surgery performed on the ear and its parts ,  the nose and nasal cavity ,  or the throat ,  including surgery of the adenoids ,  tonsils ,  pharynx ,  and trachea .
transphobia against oneself supposedly caused by one's own repressed transgender identity .
transphobia within neopagan communities ,  related closely to radical feminist transphobia .
transphobia which makes exceptions for transgender people deemed "trans enough" or who have had mostly successful outward transitions in terms of "expected" gender presentation .
fear ,  dislike ,  or hatred of asexual people and / or human asexuality .
discrimination based on one's sexual behavior ,  sexuality ,  or other sexual characteristics .
discrimination against ,  opposition of ,  or hostility towards any or all sexual behavior and sexuality .
prejudice based on one's sexuality .
acceptance of homosexuality as long as it remains a private issue .
prejudice based on one's ethnicity .
prejudice based on one's race .
prejudice based on one's religious status .
bias against one based on their status as obese .
prejudice based on one's status as a foreigner ;  as a person from another land ,  state ,  or country .
discrimination based on body weight .
discrimination on the grounds of fatness .
misogyny directed towards black women where race and gender both play roles in bias .
hatred of ,  contempt for ,  or prejudice against black trans women .
discrimination based on species membership or relationship .
a form of unjustified discrimination based on species membership .
discrimination based on a person's size .
discrimination based on one's marital status .
discrimination against and negative perception of single people .
a fear or hatred of religion ,  religious faith ,  religious people or religious organizations .
fear or hatred of atheism or atheists .
a process in which persons improve their awareness and identity ,  evelop talents and potential ,  build human capital and facilitate employability ,  enhance the quality of life and contribute to the realization of dreams and aspirations .
the lifelong process of managing learning ,  work ,  leisure ,  and transitions in order to move toward a personally determined and evolving preferred future .
progression upward over the course of an individual's career .
a situation in which a person has reached the highest level of their career possible .
a metaphor used to represent an invisible barrier that keeps a given demographic  ( typically applied to minorities )  from rising beyond a certain level in a hierarchy .
a metaphor used to describe the combination of individual ,  cultural ,  and organizational factors that impede asian americans' career progress inside organizations .
a metaphor for the underrepresentation of women in hiring and employment in hollywood .
an informal  ( and often unacknowledged )  barrier to promotion or advancement ,  in employment and elsewhere ,  for middle - aged and elderly people .
an informal  ( and often unacknowledged )  barrier to promotion or advancement for younger people ,  as a result of older people continuing to work instead of retiring .
an informal  ( and often unacknowledged )  barrier to promotion or advancement ,  in employment and elsewhere ,  for lgbtq people .
an unwritten ,  uncodified barrier to promotion or progression for women in law enforcement or the military .
the assumption that everyone is monosexual  ( i .e .
discrimination based on one's rank or ranks in given hierarchies .
abusive ,  discriminatory ,  or exploitative behavior towards people because of their rank in a particular hierarchy .
discrimination based on the language a person uses .
fear or hatred of islam or muslims .
an irrational fear or hatred of jews .
fear of or aversion to hinduism .
a prejudiced attitude about human height that often results in discrimination ,  based on the belief that unusually short or tall people are inferior and undesirable .
discrimination based on qualities associated with one's head hair .
a form of discrimination in which persons are targeted based on their hair color .
a form of discrimination in which persons ,  typically persons with afro - textured hair ,  are targeted based on their hair texture .
prejudice or discrimination against people with red hair .
prejudice based on one's physical appearance .
fear and dislike of obese people and / or obesity .
prejudice based on one's gender .
fear or hatred of cisgender persons .
fear or resentment of heterosexuals or heterosexuality .
the notion that one is superior based on one's ability to hear or behave in the manner of one who hears .
the sexual functions ,  activities ,  attitudes ,  and orientations of an individual woman .
the sexual functions ,  activities ,  attitudes ,  and orientations of an individual man .
discrimination against persons with albinism .
discrimination against persons who have autism .
prejudice based on one's social class .
a strong antipathy ,  aversion or hatred toward poverty or poor people .
prejudice based on one's age .
an irrational fear of adolescent people .
abnormal and persistent fear of elderly individuals or people ;  aversion or hatred towards elderly people .
an irrational ,  obsessive fear or dislike of children .
discrimination based on religious sect .
prejudice based on one's diet .
vegaphobia is an aversion to vegetarian and vegan people .
discrimination against persons based on their drug usage ,  either previously or contemporaneously .
an ideological focus on males and men ,  and issues affecting them ,  possibly to the detriment of non - males .
an ideological focus on females ,  and issues affecting them ,  possibly to the detriment of non - females .
an ideology which expresses perspectives on the way an economy should run and to what end .
any of various ideologies with primarily social components .
a social ideology focused upon a particular collective or group identity or identities .
the ideology that the phallus ,  primarily associated with being the male sexual organ  ( although not all persons with such organs are male )  ,  is the central element around which society is organized .
any of various social ideologies which focus upon gender - specific identities .
any of various social ideologies which focus upon age - specific identities .
the tendency to customarily view the adult perspective as superior to the youth perspective .
a social ideology which posits that cisgender persons are superior to persons who are not cisgender .
any of various social ideologies which focus upon ethnicity - specific identities .
the tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of one's own traditional ,  deferred ,  or adoptive ethnic culture .
any of various social ideologies which focus upon sexuality - specific identities .
a social ideology which posits that heterosexual persons are superior to persons who are not heterosexual .
the tendency to focus on the procreation and rearing of children in society .
any of various social ideologies which focus upon species - specific identities .
a social ideology which posits that humans are the most important entity in the universe .
any of various social ideologies which focus upon religion - specific identities .
a social ideology which posits that a person's own religion is more important or is superior to the religions of others .
any of various conditions or states in the field of mathematics .
the quality of being the same in quantity or measure or value or status .
the condition of not being equal .
inequality which occurs when resources in a given society are distributed unevenly ,  typically through norms of allocation ,  that engender specific patterns along lines of socially defined categories of persons .
inequality based upon age .
inequality based upon economic status ;  distribution of income ,  distribution of wealth ,  etc .
the unequal distribution of academic resources ,  including but not limited to ;  school funding ,  qualified and experienced teachers ,  books ,  and technologies to socially excluded communities .
gender inequality is the state of unequal ease of access to resources and opportunities based on ,  or otherwise related to ,  gender ,  including economic participation and decision - making .
inequality based upon race .
the use of scientific studies and pseudo - evidence in effort to legitimize homophobic beliefs and rhetoric .
a special ,  unearned advantage or entitlement ,  used to one's own benefit or to the detriment of others ;  often ,  the groups that benefit from it are unaware of it .
privilege based on one's race .
privilege based on one's sexuality and / or sexual orientation .
heterosexual privilege confers unearned and unchallenged advantages and rewards on heterosexuals solely as a result of their sexual orientation .
the societal privilege that benefits white people over non - white people ,  particularly if they are otherwise under the same social ,  political ,  or economic circumstances .
privilege based on one's gender .
a concept within sociology for examining social ,  economic ,  and political advantages or rights that are available to men solely on the basis of their gender .
privilege based on one's ethnicity ,  ethnic group ,  and / or ethnic heritage .
privilege based on one's religious status .
privilege based on one's social class .
any of several advantages bestowed upon christians in some societies .
a concept used to examine the economic ,  social ,  and political advantages or benefits that are made to both men and women solely based on their physical appearance .
social privilege based on one's identity as cisgender or being non - transgender .
privileges based on multiple intersecting identities .
any unearned advantages accrued by an individual by virtue of being a national of a first world country .
discrimination against and negative perception of people based on how their voices sound .
privilege based on one's spoken and / or written language ,  dialect ,  or accent .
privilege based on one's quality ,  tone ,  or other aspects of voice .
the social privilege gained by those with a deep voice .
ideas and / or beliefs about how persons of particular gender roles ,  identities ,  and / or expressions should behave and act .
any of various social norms reflecting sexuality and what "normal" sexuality looks like in regards to certain sex acts ,  sexual criteria ,  social roles ,  socioeconomic status ,  etc .
the idea that heterosexuality is normative or default and that sexual and marital relationships "fit" between men and women .
the idea that being cisgender is normal ;  i .e .
any of various social norms reflecting romantic feelings and what "normal" romantic feeling looks like in regards to certain romantic acts ,  romantic criteria ,  social roles ,  socioeconomic status ,  etc .
the idea that romance is tied to traditional ideas of sexual activity ,  monogamy ,  and / or marriage and that romantic love is not possible outside of these traditional boundaries .
any of various social norms based on age .
the idea or belief that adult work ,  opinions ,  and experiences matter ,  while those of children and adolescents are less prioritized or entirely discounted .
any of various surgical procedures performed on the larynx .
the assumption that romantic and sexual relationships can only occur ,  or are only normal ,  between two monogamous partners .
violence or other abuse by one person against another in a domestic setting ,  such as in marriage or cohabitation .
physical ,  sexual ,  and / or psychological maltreatment or neglect of a child or children ,  especially by a parent or a caregiver .
domestic violence by a current or former spouse or partner in an intimate relationship against the other spouse or partner .
the perpetration or threat of an act of violence by at least one member of an married couple on the other member in the context of marriage .
the perpetration or threat of an act of violence by at least one member of an unmarried couple on the other member in the context of dating or courtship .
a single ,  or repeated act ,  or lack of appropriate action ,  occurring within any relationship where there is an expectation of trust ,  which causes harm or distress to an older person .
the physical ,  sexual ,  or psychological / emotional abuse  ( or violence )  within a dating relationship among adolescents .
a form of child abuse in which an adult or older adolescent abuses a child for sexual stimulation .
any sexual act or attempt to obtain a sexual act by violence or coercion ,  acts to traffic a person or acts directed against a person's sexuality ,  regardless of the relationship to the victim .
individual or group aggressive behavior which is socially non - acceptable ,  turbulent ,  and often destructive .
violence inflicted on an individual through physical contact .
violent actions committed upon oneself .
any kind of violence committed by larger groups of persons or political / social entities .
a form of violence wherein some social structure or social institution may harm people by preventing them from meeting their basic needs ;  more broadly ,  any type of violence involving any kind of social structure or social institution .
a type of violence committed by individuals or groups preying on economically disadvantaged individuals .
violence against individual persons .
the use or threatened use of force or violence against persons or property in violation of criminal laws for purposes of intimidation ,  coercion ,  or ransom ,  in support of political or social objectives .
a state of armed conflict between states ,  governments ,  societies and informal paramilitary groups ,  such as mercenaries ,  insurgents and militias .
violence or other hostile behavior arising when an ethnic group either feels itself under threat ,  or where it seeks to assert its superiority or dominance over other groups .
the term used to denote harm inflicted upon individuals and groups that is connected to normative understandings of their gender .
a term that covers phenomena where religion is either the subject or the object of violent behavior .
violence between different cultures or among different aspects of cultures  ( art ,  ideology ,  language ,  etc .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group by another individual or group .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their ethnic group or ethnicity .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their statuses as lgbtqia +  .
violence against lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  and trangender people  ( as well as other sexual and gender minorities )  motivated by hateful attitudes towards their existence .
acts of violence committed against gay men .
violent acts committed against transgender people .
acts of violence committed against lesbians .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their religious beliefs or affiliations or lack thereof .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their sexual identities ,  orientations ,  or sexualities in a broad sense .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their neurological condition or conditions .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their race or racial heritage .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their status as autistic .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their physical appearances .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their albinism .
the physical ,  psychological ,  or sexual abuse of one sibling by another .
spurning ,  terrorizing ,  isolating ,  exploiting ,  corrupting ,  denying emotional responsiveness ,  or neglect or a repeated pattern of caregiver behavior or extreme incident ( s )  that convey to children that they are worthless ,  flawed ,  unloved ,  unwanted ,  endangered ,  or only of value in meeting another's needs .
types of violence organized by location where violent event takes place .
violence that occurs in prison either between inmates ,  between inmates and guards ,  or that is self - inflicted by an inmate .
violence encompassing physical violence ,  including student - on - student fighting and corporal punishment ;  psychological violence ,  including verbal abuse ;  sexual violence ,  including rape and sexual harassment ;  many forms of bullying ,  including cyberbullying ;  and carrying weapons in school .
violence encompassing physical violence ,  including student - on - student fighting and corporal punishment ;  psychological violence ,  including verbal abuse ;  sexual violence ,  including rape and sexual harassment ;  many forms of bullying ,  including cyberbullying ;  and carrying weapons in institutions of higher learning such as colleges and universities .
violence that occurs in prison upon transgender persons ,  whether inflicted by other inmates ,  inflicted by guards ,  or inflicted upon the person themselves  ( potentially due to increased gender dysphoria in prison settings ,  for example )  .
types of violence organized by kind of weapon utilized by the abuser or inciter of such violence .
violence committed with the use of a gun  ( firearm or small arm )  .
the act of inflicting physical harm upon a person or ,  in some specific legal definitions ,  a threat or attempt to commit such an action .
an act in which a person intentionally sexually touches another person without that person's consent ,  or coerces or physically forces a person to engage in a sexual act against their will .
a form of abuse and / or violence ,  characterized by a person subjecting or exposing another person to behavior that may result in psychological trauma ,  including anxiety ,  chronic depression ,  or post - traumatic stress disorder .
a type of sexual assault usually involving sexual intercourse or other forms of sexual penetration carried out against a person without that person's consent .
rape that is perpetrated by a person who knows the victim .
rape involving defloration rituals .
a hate crime in which one or more people are raped because of their perceived sexual orientation .
rape perpetrated by a person employed by the state in a supervisory or custodial position ,  such as a police officer ,  public servant or jail or hospital employee .
rape occurring as the result of bargaining or solidarity - displaying among men .
rape involving at least two or more violators  ( typically at least three )  .
sex in which at least one participant's consent status is unclear .
rape in nonhuman animals .
a form of rape specific to certain cultures ,  particularly the pacific islands .
rape used to punish or discipline .
multiple ,  consecutive rapes committed by a single victim .
rape resulting from differences in hierarchy or social class .
rape that happens when a woman or man is abducted ,  in most cases to be used as a slave or a prostitute .
sexual experience that meets the legal requirements of rape ,  but is not labeled as rape by the victim .
rape that occurs during wartime or amidst war .
a hate crime in which one or more people are raped because of their perceived sexual orientation ,  gender identity ,  and / or gender expression .
a hate crime in which one or more lesbians are raped because of their perceived sexual orientation .
a hate crime in which one or more people are raped because of their perceived gender identity and / or gender expression .
rape occurring in prison .
rape of a student or students while attending an institution of higher learning ,  such as a college or university .
a form of acquaintance rape and dating violence .
the act of sexual intercourse with one's marital partner without the partner's consent .
nonforcible sexual activity in which one of the individuals is below the age of consent  ( the age required to legally consent to the behavior )  .
rape classified by types of rape by the sex and / or gender of both the rapist and the victim .
rape of persons fulfilling a female gender role ,  having a female gender identity ,  or expressing female gender .
rape of persons fulfilling a male gender role ,  having a male gender identity ,  or expressing male gender .
rape of persons fulfilling a female gender role ,  having a female gender identity ,  or expressing female gender by a male person .
rape of persons fulfilling a female gender role ,  having a female gender identity ,  or expressing female gender by another such female .
rape of persons fulfilling a male gender role ,  having a male gender identity ,  or expressing male gender by another such male .
rape of persons fulfilling a male gender role ,  having a male gender identity ,  or expressing male gender by a female person .
acts of violence committed against men .
acts of violence committed against women .
acts of violence committed against transgender women .
acts of violence committed against indigenous women .
acts of violence committed against transgender men .
acts of violence committed against bisexual people .
acts of violence committed against persons who are nonbinary .
acts of violence committed against asexual people .
an action or series of actions which constitute a potential rape or intent to rape .
a branch of philosophy that involves systematizing ,  defending ,  and recommending concepts of right and wrong conduct .
behaviors and / or ideas of what a given society believes is moral and / or ethical .
the state of being responsible ,  accountable ,  or answerable .
an ethical framework and suggests that an entity ,  be it an organization or individual ,  has an obligation to act for the benefit of society at large .
the status of morally deserving praise ,  blame ,  reward ,  or punishment for an act or omission performed or neglected in accordance with one's moral obligations .
a person who is asexual and aromantic .
active involvement in the political process including promoting ,  impeding or raising awareness of a certain issue or set of issues .
philosophy fields that form the basis of philosophy ;  i .e .
philosophy that apply knowledge in specific contexts .
studies or areas of philosophy which utilize specialized knowledge from multiple domains .
the study of questions about social behavior and interpretations of society and social institutions in terms of ethical values rather than empirical relations .
the study of topics such as politics ,  liberty ,  justice ,  property ,  rights ,  law ,  and the enforcement of laws by authority: what they are ,  if they are needed ,  what makes a government legitimate ,  what rights and freedoms it should protect ,  what form it should take ,  what the law is ,  and what duties citizens owe to a legitimate government ,  if any ,  and when it may be legitimately overthrown ,  if ever .
political philosophies consisting of efforts to promote ,  impede ,  direct ,  or intervene in social ,  political ,  economic ,  or environmental reform with the desire to make changes in society .
the age at which a person is considered to be legally competent to consent to sexual acts .
a person who experiences any of various kinds of diversity in their mental health state or has issues or problems of varying levels with their mental health .
a person who falls on the autism spectrum .
racism against black persons .
prejudice ,  discrimination ,  hostility or political or religious opposition directed against ethnic or religious jews or against judaism .
discrimination against a person or persons based on their culture or cultural heritage .
aversion to or discrimination against jews as a whole based on religious beliefs ,  false claims against judaism and religious antisemitic canards .
people who feel romantic attraction .
people who do not experience romantic attraction
any of various interactions between two or more cultures .
a sharing or taking of information ,  usually cultural in nature ,  with another culture for the purposes of improving understanding or for one's own cultural benefit .
the process in which a minority group or culture comes to resemble a dominant group or assume the values ,  behaviors ,  and beliefs of another group .
the process in which persons  ( usually children )  learn to interact with others in social situations .
the process of internalizing the norms and ideologies of society .
the learning of behavior and attitudes considered appropriate for a given societal gender role .
any of a group of psychiatric conditions originating in childhood .
any of various neurodevelopmental conditions marked by difficulties in social communication and interaction as well as repetitive patterns of behaviors ,  interests ,  or activities .
a developmental condition characterized by difficulties with social interaction and communication ,  and by restricted and repetitive behavior .
autism as experienced as an infant .
autism as experienced in adulthood .
a female person who is on the autism spectrum .
a male person who is on the autism spectrum .
a transgender person who is on the autism spectrum .
a nonbinary person who is on the autism spectrum .
services and space and equipment provided for a particular purpose ;  a building or place that provides a particular service or is used for a particular industry .
a facility for recreation ,  an activity or activities of leisure .
a venue which provides some form or multiple forms of entertainment .
any of various commercial venues expressly for engaging in public sex ,  as opposed to spaces such as parks which may be used for sexual behavior but are intended for general public use .
any of various commercial venues expressly for men engaging in public sex with other men ,  as opposed to spaces such as parks which may be used for sexual behavior but are intended for general public use .
a commercial space for men to have sex with other men .
types of violence organized by kind of abuser or inciter of such violence .
one of several forms of police misconduct which involves undue violence by police members .
a visit by police or other law - enforcement officers  -  often in the early morning or late at night ,  with the aim of using the element of surprise in an attempt to arrest suspects believed to be likely to hide evidence ,  resist arrest ,  be politically sensitive ,  or simply be elsewhere during the day .
a visit of a primarily lgbtqia +  residence  ( such as a gay bar )  by police or other law - enforcement officers ,  often in the early morning or late at night ,  with the aim of using the element of surprise in an attempt to arrest suspects believed to be likely to hide evidence ,  resist arrest ,  be politically sensitive ,  or simply be elsewhere during the day .
a surgical procedure in which the anteroir thyroid cartilage is removed in order to collapse the laryngeal diameter and shorten the vocal folds ;  this acts to raise and feminize vocal pitch .
the body of law that relates to crime .
a branch of the law which ,  in common law legal systems such as england and wales ,  the law of pakistan and the law of the united states ,  refers to non - criminal law .
law which defines rights and responsibilities .
law which defines crimes and punishments .
written law passed by a body of legislature ,  as opposed to oral law ,  customary law ,  regulatory law  ( pruduced by an executive )  ,  or common law  ( produced by a judiciary )  .
ethical and moral codes taught by any of various religious traditions .
any of various laws created by a governing body that is political in nature .
a body of law which defines the role ,  powers ,  and structure of different entities within a state ,  namely ,  the executive ,  the parliament or legislature ,  and the judiciary ;  as well as the basic rights of citizens and ,  in federal countries such as the united states and canada ,  the relationship between the central government and state ,  provincial ,  or territorial governments .
the body of law derived from the judiciary ,  i .e .
law which governs the relation between individuals and the goverment ,  and those relationships between individuals which are of direct concern to society .
a surgical procedure in which the vocal fold contours are medially augmented with the injection of silastic implants .
the body of law that governs the activities of administrative agencies of government .
the rules by which a court hears and determines what happens in civil ,  lawsuit ,  criminal or administrative proceedings .
an area of legal study which deals with the constitutional ,  common - law ,  statutory ,  tax treaty ,  and regulatory rules that constitute the law applicable to taxation .
the body of law that applies to the rights ,  relations ,  and conduct of persons and businesses engaged in commerce ,  merchandising ,  trade ,  and sales .
a collective term describing the network of treaties ,  statutes ,  etc . ,  addressing the effects of human activity on the natural environment .
an area of the law that deals with family matters and domestic relations .
the area of law that governs the various forms of ownership and tenancy in real property  ( land as distinct from personal or movable possessions )  and in personal property ,  within the common law legal system .
the body of law that sets out the rules and standards that courts follow when adjudicating civil lawsuits  ( as opposed to procedures in criminal law matters )  .
laws associated with the various procedures following criminal investigation and / or charges ;  the mechanisms by which substantive criminal law is enforced .
laws regarding the practice of adoption .
any of various laws relating to the process of divorce .
laws related to the legal requirements that determine the validity of a marriage ,  and which vary considerably among countries .
laws that deal with persons who are not considered ,  in a legal sense ,  adults .
laws related to the propagation of civil rights .
laws designed to promote human rights on social ,  regional ,  and domestic levels .
laws related to socio - economic human rights ,  such as the right to education ,  right to housing ,  right to adequate standard of living ,  right to health ,  victims' rights and the right to science and culture .
laws related to economic human rights and economic freedom .
laws lated to social human rights  ( such as the right to education ,  right to housing ,  etc .
laws related to the right to freely participate in culture .
laws related to the propagation of free and ,  in many cases ,  compulsory education .
laws related to the economic ,  social and cultural right to adequate housing and shelter .
laws related to the legal rights afforded to victims of crime .
laws related to individual rights ,  the rights of an individual .
laws which refer to the rights of a group or collective of persons .
laws which protect against or aim to combat discrimination .
laws permitting ,  prohibiting ,  restricting ,  or otherwise regulating the availability of and types of abortion services .
any and all criminal laws regarding sex ,  sexual acts ,  sexual practices ,  sexual paraphernalia ,  and the results of these things .
laws regarding particular types of sexual activity .
the use or threatened use of force or violence against persons based on their gender identity ,  role ,  and / or expression in violation of criminal laws for purposes of intimidation ,  coercion ,  or ransom ,  in support of political or social objectives .
any of various processes which act to feminize the voice .
laws regarding the legality of pornography in terms of its distribution and consumption ,  and the types of pronography which can be utilized .
laws regarding various practices classified as sex work or prostitution and their legality .
any of various laws regarding utterances or acts that strongly offend prevalent moral standards at a given time in a given societal context .
laws regarding the legality of child pornography in terms of its distribution and consumption .
laws regarding incest ,  including various forms of sexual activity between family members or close relatives .
laws regarding human trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation ,  including sexual slavery .
laws regarding rape ,  and more broadly ,  sexual assault ,  including its classification ,  the victims' rights ,  and the criminal proceedings ,  among other things .
laws regarding child sex work and child prostitution ,  including its legality and criminal treatment .
laws regarding the transmission of or exposure to sexually transmitted infections  ( stis )  .
laws regarding exposure to ,  or transmission of ,  the human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  .
laws regarding the classification of sexual harassment ,  its criminal treatment ,  and other aspects surrounding its occurrence .
laws related to lgbtqia +  rights .
laws related to transgender rights .
laws which discriminate against particular groups or collectives of individuals .
laws which infringe upon the rights of ,  or discriminate against ,  lgbtqia +  persons .
laws which infringe upon the rights of ,  or discriminate against ,  transgender persons .
laws which infringe upon the rights of ,  or discriminate against ,  gay persons .
the common name for legislation or a statute that defines access to public toilets by gender  ( restrooms ) —or transgender individual .
sexual intercourse with the use of precautions to prevent conception or the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases .
sexual intercourse without the use of precautions to prevent conception or the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases .
human penile - vaginal penetration in which no viable contraceptive methods are in place .
human penile - vaginal penetration in which a viable contraceptive method or methods are in place .
human penile - vaginal penetration in which a condom is used .
sexual intercourse in which at least one participant utilizes a condom .
any type of penetrative intercourse in which a condom is not used .
a concept used to examine the attribution of fixed ,  intrinsic ,  innate qualities to women and men .
belief that some part of human nature or some personal characteristic  ( such as intelligence ,  homosexuality ,  gender presentation ,  etc . ) 
activities concerned with governmental policies ,  functions ,  etc .
an intersectional field between human biology and politics .
slang that has a connotative or denotative gender .
a word or group of words expressing a negative connotation or a low opinion of someone or something ,  showing a lack of respect for someone or something .
a pejorative which implies a particular gender or is directed primarily at a given gender .
a pejorative referring to a particular ethnic group .
a pejorative which implies sexuality or is directed primarily at a given sexual activity or participants in such an activity .
a pejorative which implies a male gender or is directed primarily at men .
a pejorative which implies a female gender or is directed primarily at women .
a pejorative referring to lgbtqia +  people .
a pejorative referring to transgender persons .
a pejorative referring to gay persons ,  particularly gay men .
a pejorative referring to lesbians .
a pejorative referring to bisexual persons .
a pejorative referring to asexual persons .
the capacity of an individual to influence the conduct  ( behavior )  of others .
the legitimate right to exercise social and political power ,  which a civil state usually makes formal by way of a judicial branch and an executive branch of government ;  in a theocratic state ,  authority is realized with a charismatic ,  ecclesiastical government .
the full right and power of a governing body over itself ,  without any interference from outside sources or bodies .
the capacity to make an informed ,  uncoerced decision .
the inviolability of the physical body and emphasizes the importance of personal autonomy and the self - determination of human beings over their own bodies .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the bdsm community .
any concisely written or spoken expression that is especially memorable because of its meaning or style .
a maxim: a phrase meant to formally summarize the general motivation or intention of an individual ,  family ,  social group or organization .
a memorable motto or phrase used in a clan ,  political ,  commercial ,  religious ,  and other context as a repetitive expression of an idea or purpose ,  with the goal of persuading members of the public or a more defined target group .
a memorable motto or phrase used for political purposes with the goal of persuading members of the public or a more defined target group .
a slogan related to the lgbtqia +  community .
a slogan which is pro - lgbtqia +  .
a slogan which is anti - lgbtqia +  .
the anus ,  as it occurs in vertebrates .
the anus ,  as it occurs in mammals .
the anus ,  as it occurs in primates .
the anus ,  as it occurs in humans .
a proposition or value that is a guide for behavior or evaluation .
principles which provide a framework within which ethical dilemmas and other problems may be analyzed .
in its broadest context ,  includes both the attainment of that which is just and the philosophical discussion of that which is just .
any of various processes which act to masculinize or virilize the voice .
a trait or quality that is deemed to be morally good and thus is valued as a foundation of principle and good moral being .
the choice and willingness to confront agony ,  pain ,  danger ,  uncertainty ,  or intimidation .
social justice is a concept of fair and just relations between the individual and society .
the hatred of ,  contempt for ,  or prejudice against transgender men in general .
a pejorative which is directed primarily at transgender women .
a pejorative which is directed primarily at transgender men .
a deviation from accuracy or correctness .
use of invalid or otherwise faulty reasoning ,  or "wrong moves" in the construction of an argument .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea that is widely held .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea that pertains to some aspect of culture or cultural behavior or is otherwise held within a particular culture .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to science or scientific knowledge .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to medicine or medical knowledge .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to a particular group of persons .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to lgbtq individuals .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to transgender individuals .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to gay men .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to lesbians .
a group of people related either by consanguinity  ( by recognized birth )  ,  affinity  ( by marriage or other relationship )  ,  or co - residence  ( as implied by the etymology of the english word "family" )  or some combination of these .
the group of people in an individual's life that satisfies the typical role of family as a support system .
eye movement ,  eye behavior ,  gaze ,  and eye - related nonverbal communication .
the act of seeing and the act of being seen .
the gaze of the male viewer .
the gaze of a gendered viewer or the gaze upon a gendered subject .
the gaze of the female viewer .
the gaze of a viewer that involves the political rebellion and resistance against the repression of an oppressed person's right to look .
the gaze of a viewer which places the colonized in the position of the other ,  shaping the viewer as the colonizer .
the gaze of the male tourist as a viewer and as the stereotypical image of tourism and tourists .
sexual attraction based on looking at objects and / or persons or being looked upon by others .
the gaze of a viewer within a particular occupation or upon a subject within that occupation .
the gaze of the medical professional upon a patient sometimes considered dehumanizing in its separation of the patient's body from the patient's person ;  also refers to how doctors modify their behavior toward patients .
sexual pleasure derived from exposing one's normatively considered private parts of their body  ( genitalia ,  breasts ,  buttocks ,  etc . ) 
the sexual interest in spying on people engaged in intimate behaviors ,  such as undressing ,  sexual activity ,  or other actions usually considered to be of a private nature .
the attainment of sexual pleasure from watching other people have sex .
the gaze of the cisgender viewer ,  specifically in regard to viewing transgender persons and blindness toward transgender issues .
the concept that being cisgender and heterosexual is the societal norm ;  the intersection of cisnormativity and heteronormativity .
the unique numerical identity of a person or being in the course of time .
the sum of a being's knowledge and understanding of their self .
one's identity in relationship to the groups within one interacts and participates and those they do not .
sexual identity is how one thinks of oneself in terms of to whom one is  sexually attracted .
the development of the distinct personality of an individual regarded as a persisting entity  ( known as personal continuity )  in a particular stage of life in which individual characteristics are possessed and by which a person is recognized or known  ( such as the establishment of a reputation )  .
the development of one's sexuality ,  including sexual orientation and interests ,  among other things .
development of one's self - concept of gender .
development of any of various interpersonal identities ,  or identities based on relationships with others  ( for example ,  sexual orientation identity )  .
legal ,  social ,  or ethical principles of freedom or entitlement ;  that is ,  rights are the fundamental normative rules about what is allowed of people or owed to people ,  according to some legal system ,  social convention ,  or ethical theory .
moral principles or norms that describe certain standards of human behaviour and are regularly protected as natural and legal rights in municipal and international law .
a class of rights that protect individuals' freedom from infringement by governments ,  social organizations ,  and private individuals .
the ability of an individual or group to seclude themselves ,  or information about themselves ,  and thereby express themselves selectively .
the condition or status of something being hidden .
the condition of concealing something about one's self .
the condition of concealing one's gender identity ,  as a transgender person before coming out or for any other reason .
the condition of concealing one's sexual identity ,  as a gay person who actively conceals their identity .
the condition of concealing one's racial identity actively ,  rather than passing as a member of a different race .
a legally recognized partnership which is arranged in a similar manner to a marriage .
a process of communication by which one person reveals information about their identity to another .
a process of communication by which one person reveals information about themself to another .
a process of communication by which one person reveals information about their gender identity to another .
a process of communication by which one person reveals information about their sexual identity to another .
behaviors considered sexually abusive .
sexual harassment includes a range of actions from mild transgressions to sexual abuse or sexual assault .
the surgical removal of all or part of the vagina .
an unlawful act or behavior punishable by a state or other authority .
a wide range of behaviors of an offensive nature .
a form of harassment using electronic means .
quarreling or upsetting people on the internet to distract and sow discord by posting inflammatory and digressive ,  extraneous ,  or off - topic messages in an online community  ( such as a newsgroup ,  forum ,  chat room ,  or blog )  with the intent of provoking readers into displaying emotional responses and normalizing tangential discussion ,  whether for the troll's amusement or a specific gain .
participating in debate posing as an actual or potential ally who has concerns that need to be addressed before becoming an ally .
methods of contraception in which physical ,  chemical ,  or biological means are used to prevent the sperm from reaching the fertilizable ovum .
contraception which utilizes any of various chemicals .
contraceptive methods that act on the endocrine system ,  usually using steroid hormones .
contraceptive techniques applied after sexual intercourse .
contraception provided surgically or as the result of a surgical process .
hormonal contraception taken orally .
hormonal contraception applied through the skin .
hormonal contraception injected into the skin .
any of various contraceptive techniques placed within the uterus .
intrauterine contraception techniques utilizing non - hormonal mechanisms .
intrauterine contraception techniques utilizing hormonal mechanisms .
contraceptive techniques applied before sexual intercourse .
contraceptive techniques applied during sexual intercourse .
contraception taken following the postpartum period .
contraceptive methods designed for men .
contraceptive methods designed for women .
contraceptive methods related to the penis .
contraceptive methods related to the vagina .
contraception provided in a medical manner ,  either hormonally or surgically .
surgical operations on the nose and nasal cavity .
contraception using non - medical methods .
contraception utilizing a sheath .
contraceptive methods which use chemicals to kill spermatozoa .
penile contraception utilizing non - medical methods .
barrier contraception which is placed in the vagina .
barrier contraception which is placed in the penis .
use of an animal's immune system to prevent it from fertilizing offspring .
contraceptive methods which are long - lasting ,  but not permanent ,  usually lasting years .
contraceptive methods which can be undone .
contraceptive methods which cannot be undone ,  or which cause permanent infertility .
a small ,  often t - shaped contraceptive device that is inserted into a person's uterus to prevent pregnancy .
a type of intrauterine device which contains copper .
an intrauterine device that releases the hormone levonorgestrel into the uterus .
a plastic surgical operation on the nose ,  either reconstructive ,  restorative ,  or cosmetic .
a form of contraceptive which is injected into the body ,  usually either in the muscle or under the skin .
a form of hormonal contraception and progestogen - only contraception that are administered by injection and providing long - lasting birth control .
a form of hormonal birth control .
a sheath - shaped barrier device ,  used during sexual intercourse to reduce the probability of pregnancy or a sexually transmitted infection  ( sti )  .
a condom that is rolled onto an erect penis before intercourse and works by forming a physical barrier which blocks semen from entering the body of a sexual partner .
a condom that is worn internally within the vagina to prevent exposure to ejaculated semen or other body fluids .
a device used for the purposes of barrier contraception .
construction of the urethra following damage to it or its destruction .
contraception revolving behaviors of at least one partner during ,  before ,  and / or after coitus .
contraception revolving behaviors of at least one partner during coitus .
contraception revolving behaviors of at least one partner before and / or after coitus .
a type of birth control that is designed to be taken orally .
contraceptive pills that contain only synthetic progestogens  ( progestins )  and do not contain estrogen .
a contraceptive administered via the surface of the skin ,  with minimal penetration of the skin layer .
a drug prescribed for gynecological use ;  that is ,  for an affected area or areas studied primarily in gynecology .
a contraceptive which is placed inside the uterus .
a contraceptive which is placed inside the vagina .
a contraceptive administered via the surface of the skin ,  with maximum penetration of the skin layer in efforts to exert effects on deeper tissues .
a device used for the purposes of hormonal contraception .
a polymeric drug delivery device designed to provide controlled release of drugs for intravaginal administration over extended periods of time .
consent to engage in sexual activity .
a branch of medicine dealing with the use of surgery to treat diseases of the breast .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the limbs .
surgical procedures performed on parts of lower extremities .
surgery in which the lower extremity is repaired .
the plastic surgery and the liposuction procedures for the correction of the congenital ,  traumatic ,  and acquired defects and deformities of the buttocks and the anatomy of the gluteal region ;  and for the aesthetic enhancement  ( by augmentation or by reduction )  of the contour of the buttocks .
the use of operant conditioning ,  including rewards and punishments ,  in assist a person in creating an atmosphere where he or she does not contribute to "painful" stimuli .
alteration or modification of an aspect of one's or one's entire sexual orientation identity .
alteration or modification of an aspect of one's or one's entire gender identity .
the pseudoscientific practice of trying to change an individual's sexual orientation from gay to straight / heterosexual using psychological and / or spiritual interventions .
the pseudoscientific practice of trying to change an individual's gender identity using psychological and / or spiritual interventions ;  any of various attempts to "make" someone cisgender .
the pseudoscientific practice of trying to change an individual's sexual orientation or gender identity using psychological and / or spiritual interventions .
alteration or modification of an aspect of one's or one's entire identity .
an intersectional theory that draws from queer theory and which considers disability as an essential part of identity , 
the adoption of elements of one culture by members of another culture .
a personal name entered onto a legal document ,  typically a birth register or birth certificate ,  around the period of one's birth .
a name that identifies a person for legal ,  administrative and other official purposes .
the augmentation of the buttock ,  typically utilizing a gluteal implant under each gluteus maximus muscle ;  lipoinjection ;  or by rearranging and enhancing muscle and fat tissues of the gluteal region .
to assign to someone a particular identity ,  usually based on visual appearances .
process in which gender is assigned to an individual without asking that person their gender identity .
any of various romantic orientations falling on the aromantic spectrum between alloromantic and aromantic .
romantically attracted to people only after forming deep emotional bonds .
the process of changing one's gender presentation and / or sex characteristics to accord with one's internal sense of gender identity .
cessation of gender transition for any reason .
transitioning after stopping gender transition for any reason .
cessation of a particular behavior or behaviors .
desistance from a gender identity considered transgender ;  i .e .
desistance from a sexual orientation identity which is nonheterosexual in nature ;  i .e .
fabric or other material used to cover the body .
clothing  ( such as a dress )  worn over one's underwear .
clothing worn over one's undergarments ,  typically or primarily indoors .
clothing  ( such as a rain jacket )  worn over one's clothes ,  to protect them  ( e .g .
a garment consisting of a skirt with an attached bodice  ( or a matching bodice giving the effect of a one - piece garment )  .
collective human activities involved in the production of goods and services ;  or the physical or mental exertion of individuals to produce or accomplish something .
the process of managing feelings and expressions to fulfill the emotional requirements of a job .
removal of all traces of something ;  obliteration .
a heteronormative cultural practice where queer people are erased from cultural narratives .
a cultural practice where asexual people are erased from cultural narratives .
the tendency to ignore ,  remove ,  falsify ,  or reexplain evidence of bisexuality in history ,  academia ,  the news media ,  and other primary sources .
a cultural practice where gay people ,  particular gay men ,  are erased from cultural narratives .
a cultural practice where intersex people are erased from cultural narratives .
a cultural practice where transgender people are erased from cultural narratives .
the tendency to ignore ,  remove ,  falsify ,  or reexplain evidence of lesbianism in history ,  academia ,  the news media ,  and other primary sources .
equality of persons or groups in the realm of politics .
a state of affairs in which all people within a specific society or isolated group have the same status in certain respects ,  possibly including civil rights ,  freedom of speech ,  property rights and equal access to certain social goods and social services .
a concept that applies concerns of justice and fairness to social policy .
a form of literature that uses aesthetic and rhythmic qualities of language—such as phonaesthetics ,  sound symbolism ,  and metre—to evoke meanings in addition to ,  or in place of ,  the prosaic ostensible meaning .
the specific mode of literature represented in performance: a play ,  opera ,  mime ,  ballet ,  etc . ,  performed in a theatre ,  or on radio or television .
any narrative consisting of imaginary people ,  events ,  or descriptions—in other words ,  a narrative not based strictly on history or fact .
a piece of writing that gives the author's own argument — but the definition is vague ,  overlapping with those of a paper ,  an article ,  a pamphlet ,  and a short story .
a term used in the book - trade for fictional works written with the intent of fitting into a specific literary genre ,  in order to appeal to readers and fans already familiar with that genre .
fictions which derive from other fictions ,  either being directly inspired by or continuations or alternate histories of .
a type of fictional text written by fans of any work of fiction where the author uses established characters ,  settings ,  and / or other intellectual properties from an original creator as a basis for their writing .
a prevailing negative reaction towards men who act in a feminine way .
the process by which a person or group of persons comes to be regarded or treated as lacking in human qualities .
the act of treating a person ,  or sometimes an animal ,  as an object or a thing .
the act of treating a person as a mere object of sexual desire .
the process by which someone or something is made the subject of sexual obsession .
a subculture composed of fans characterized by a feeling of empathy and camaraderie with others who share a common interest .
a subculture interested in anthropomorphic animal characters with human personalities and characteristics .
therapeutic ,  nutritional ,  environmental ,  social and / or behavioral interventions at the societal ,  community ,  organizational or individual levels to reduce ,  modify or stop the course of something .
preventing or hindering persons or other entities from accessing something ,  such as particular information or resources .
the controlling of access to health services ,  usually by primary care providers ;  often used in managed care settings to reduce utilization of expensive services and reduce referrals .
a business whose primary function is the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises .
a business serving mostly lgbtqia +  persons whose primary function is the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises .
material depicting sexual behavior .the sexual behavior involved may be explicit ,  implicit sexual behavior such as flirting ,  or include sexual language and euphemisms .
any literary or artistic work that deals substantively with subject matter that is erotically stimulating or sexually arousing but is not pornographic .
the portrayal of sexual subject matter for the exclusive purpose of sexual arousal .
erotica and pornography as discrete ,  collectable items ,  usually in published or printed form .
pornography containing lgbtqia +  content or persons or otherwise pertaining to the lgbtqia +  community .
pornography containing lesbian content or lesbians or otherwise pertaining to the lesbian community .
pornography containing gay male content or gay men or otherwise pertaining to the gay male community .
pornography containing transgender content or transgender persons or otherwise pertaining to the transgender community .
pornography containing bisexual content or persons or otherwise pertaining to the bisexual community .
erotica containing lgbtqia +  content or persons or otherwise pertaining to the lgbtqia +  community .
erotica containing gay male content or gay men or otherwise pertaining to the gay male community .
erotica containing lesbian content or lesbians or otherwise pertaining to the lesbian community .
erotica containing transgender content or persons or otherwise pertaining to the transgender community .
erotica containing bisexual content or persons or otherwise pertaining to the bisexual community .
a business which either directly or indirectly provides sex - related services .
the exchange of sexual services ,  performances ,  or products for material compensation
the business or practice of engaging in sexual activity in exchange for payment .
prostitution services with a primary purpose being the exchange of sexual intercourse for pay .
prostitution services without a primary purpose being the exchange of sexual intercourse for pay .
prostitution and / or sexual slavery that takes place as a result of coercion by a third party .
sexual rites consisting of sexual intercourse or other sexual activity performed in the context of religious worship ,  perhaps as a form of fertility rite or divine marriage  ( hieros gamos )  .
prostitution involving a child ,  and it is a form of commercial sexual exploitation of children .
prostitution involving an adolescent ,  and it is a form of commercial sexual exploitation of adolescents .
forced prostitution of individuals under the age of 18 .
types of prostitution organized by the gender of the clients and / or sex workers .
prostitution in which the sex worker or workers are female .
prostitution in which the sex worker or workers are male .
sex work services engaged in by students ,  particularly those in institutions of higher learning ,  for a variety of purposes ranging from drug addiction to financial instability arising from college loans .
prostitution in which the sex worker or workers are male and the client or clients are male .
prostitution in which the sex worker or workers are male and the client or clients are female .
prostitution in which the sex worker or workers are female and the client or clients are male .
prostitution in which the sex worker or workers are female and the client or clients are female .
direct prostitution in which clients are passively sought in outdoor public places ,  such as particular street corners .
direct prostitution in which clients are actively sought in venues such as clubs and hotels ;  alternatively prostitution in which clients actively seek out indoor areas where sex workers are present  ( such as brothels )  .
prostitution which takes place in a specified building for such practices ,  i .e .
prostitution in which sex workers are contacted  ( usually by phone )  by clients and travel to mutually agreed upon premises .
performance of sex work streamed or otherwise sent virtually via the internet in engage for money or other material items .
types of prostitution organized by age of those prostituted .
sex work engaged in via telephone ,  usually related to ,  but not limited to ,  simply describing sexual acts in great detail .
sex work taking place in places toted primarily as massage parlors .
sex work in which someone may sporadically engage in ,  when and if ,  a particular client could potentially become available .
sex work engaged in for the purposes of pornographic filming .
erotic dancing in close quarters which may or may not involve sexual contact ,  but usually at least implies some form of sexuality .
sex work engaged in where the client and the sex worker are separated by some physical boundary ,  i .e .
dancing that provides erotic entertainment and whose objective is the stimulation of erotic or sexual thoughts or actions in viewers .
a form of dancing engaged in for the purpose of crowd entertainment at nightclubs or other venues where music is played .
erotic dancing in which the performer or performers gradually undress ,  either partially or completely ,  in a sexually suggestive manner .
trips organized from within the tourism sector ,  or from outside this sector but using its structures and networks ,  with the primary purpose of effecting a commercial sexual relationship by the tourist with residents at the destination
sex tourism by men who travel intending to engage in sexual activities with one or more locals ,  usually female sex workers .
sex tourism by women who travel intending to engage in sexual activities with one or more locals ,  usually male sex workers .
tourism for the purpose of engaging in the prostitution of children ,  which is commercially facilitated child sexual abuse .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for human rights .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for civil rights .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for lgbtqia +  rights .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for gay rights .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for transgender rights .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for lesbian rights .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for bisexual rights .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for intersex rights .
organizations related to particular identities or identifications  ( ethnic groups ,  gender and sexual minorities ,  etc .
organizations related to lgbtqia +  people ,  whether in favor of them and their rights or opposed to them .
organizations which support and advocate for lgbtqia +  rights and / or people .
organizations opposed to lgbtqia +  rights and / or people .
anti - lgbtqia +  organizations opposed to providing basic human and / or civil rights to lgbtqia +  people .
organizations opposed to gay marriage .
lgbtqia +  organizations focused on advocacy of lgbtqia +  health .
an lgbtqia +  organization which aims to further a lgbtqia +  participation in a particular profession ,  the interests of lgbtqia +  individuals engaged in that profession ,  and the public interest of lgbtqia +  persons in such a profession .
a lgbtqia +  organization which has a religious affiliation and / or membership .
an lgbtqia +  organization which supports and advocates for lgbtqia +  youth .
an lgbtqia +  organization which supports and advocates for lgbtqia +  students .
lgbtqia +  organizations which support and advocate for lgbtqia +  sportspeople and participation of lgbtqia +  persons in sports .
lgbtqia +  organizations focused on advocacy for lgbtqia +  military service members and veterans .
lgbtqia +  organizations focused on curation of and advocacy of lgbtqia +  business owners .
lgbtqia +  organizations focused on curation of and advocacy for lgbtqia +  art .
pro - lgbtqia +  organizations organized by their focus and / or purpose .
pro - lgbtqia +  organizations organized by identity within the lgbtqia +  community .
organizations primarily for bisexual people or which otherwise support bisexual people .
organizations primarily for asexual people or which otherwise support asexual people .
organizations primarily for transgender people or which otherwise support transgender people .
organizations primarily for lesbians or which otherwise support lesbians .
organizations primarily for gay men or which otherwise support gay men .
organizations primarily for intersex people or which otherwise support intersex people .
lgbtqia +  organizations focused on advocacy of lgbtqia +  persons in medical care and research .
organizations which support or otherwise advocate for gay liberation .
any of various procedures that are part of the legal system .
an attempt to avoid criminal or civil liability following allegations in a criminal or civil proceeding .
an attempt to avoid criminal liability following allegations in a criminal proceeding .
a legal defense which provides an admission of guilt with justification that certain factors provide the defendant with lack of criminal intent .
an affirmative defense by excuse in a criminal case ,  arguing that the defendant is not responsible for his or her actions due to an episodic or persistent psychiatric condition at the time of the criminal act .
an affirmative defense by excuse in a criminal case ,  arguing that the defendant is not responsible for his or her actions due to a temporary insane state during the commission of a crime .
a temporary insanity defense involving a state of panic .
a panic defense applied in cases of assault ,  manslaughter ,  or murder of a transgender individual ,  with whom the assailant ( s )  engaged in sexual relations unaware that the victim is transgender until seeing them naked ,  or further into or after sexual activity .
a movement from within the queer communities described as a radical alternative to gay mainstreaming and directly posits an alternative view of gay pride events and activities which have become increasingly commercialized with corporate sponsors and "safer" agendas to avoid offending supporters and sponsors .
a student - led or community - based organization ,  found in middle schools and high schools as well as colleges and universities ,  primarily in the united states and canada ,  that is intended to provide a safe and supportive environment for lgbtqia +  children ,  teenagers ,  and youth as well as their cisgender heterosexual allies .
radical feminist ideologies based upon inclusionary or exclusionary identity criteria .
sexuality in which a person is principally attracted to themself .
radical feminist ideologies based upon inclusionary or exclusionary identity criteria regarding lesbians .
radical feminist ideologies based upon inclusionary or exclusionary identity criteria regarding transgender people ,  particularly transgender women .
a lesbian movement that challenges the status quo of heterosexuality and mainstream feminism .
radical feminist ideologies based upon inclusionary identity criteria regarding transgender people ,  specifically transgender women .
radical feminist ideologies based upon exclusionary identity criteria regarding transgender people ,  specifically transgender women .
a form of radical feminism which is based upon a critical reading or definition of what gender is or is seen to be ,  thus basing particular criteria on womanhood or what a "real" woman is .
a profound and persistent happiness related to one's gender .
the "bending"  ( or changing )  of expected gender roles ,  either in fiction or in real life .
gender nonconformity which seeks to subvert traditional notions of gender identity ,  expression ,  and role ;  often in a way that may be seen or viewed as offensive by some parties .
a person with a gender identity ,  expression ,  and / or role which is considered variant within the sociocultural understandings of gender within which that individual lives .
any form of language which utilizes a system of grammatical gender which may or may not be tied to forms of gender expression and identity in a given culture that utilizes said language .
gender - neutral language is language that avoids bias towards a particular sex or social gender .
any of various states provided to a person .
a position held by something or someone in regard to the law .
a formal acknowledgment of truth ,  validity ,  legality ,  or worthiness of consideration in a given legal system .
legal recognition of a person's gender identity and / or expression .
equitable representation of persons of different genders .
the state of equal ease of access to resources and opportunities regardless of gender ,  including economic participation and decision - making ;  and the state of valuing different behaviors ,  aspirations and needs equally ,  regardless of gender .
the quality of diverse or different cultures ,  as opposed to monoculture ,  the global monoculture ,  or a homogenization of cultures ,  akin to cultural decay .
a term used by some transgender women to refer to their intromittent organ ;  alternatively ,  any penile structure feminized due to estrogenic hormones .
a term used to refer to the penis in cisgender men ;  alternatively ,  any penile structure masculinized due to androgenic hormones .
a person who falls on the spectrum between asexuality and allosexuality  ( sexuality )  .
a person who does not experience sexual attraction to another unless they have formed a specific emotional connection with that person .
a person with a romantic orientation somewhere between aromantic and alloromantic .
a person who is demiromantic .
a collection of data or computer instructions that tell the computer how to work .
a collection of instructions that performs a specific task when executed by a computer .
a program that gives a computer instructions that provide the user with tools to accomplish a task .
a computer program or software application designed to run on a mobile device such as a phone ,  tablet ,  or watch .
an online dating service presented through a mobile phone application ,  often taking advantage of a smartphone's gps location capabilities ,  always on - hand presence ,  and easy access to digital photo galleries and mobile wallets to enhance the traditional nature of online dating .
a service provided online or by the internet .
a service for matchmaking between potential couples ,  with a view toward romance and / or marriage between them .
a company that provides specific mechanisms  ( generally websites or applications )  for online dating through the use of internet - connected personal computers or mobile devices .
online dating services primarily used for the purposes of heterosexual dating .
online dating services primarily used for the purposes of dating for gay persons .
an underground feminist punk movement that began in the early 1990s in washington state  ( particularly olympia )  and the greater pacific northwest .
a crime in which an offender or perpetrator uses or threatens to use force upon a victim .
unlawful sexual acts or behaviors .
a prejudice - motivated crime which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of their membership  ( or perceived membership )  in a certain group .
a prejudice - motivated crime which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of their membership  ( or perceived membership )  in the jewish community .
a prejudice - motivated crime which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of their membership  ( or perceived membership )  in a particular race .
a form of political violence expressly motivated by racial hatred and race conflict .
a form of political violence expressly motivated by hatred of black persons and race conflict aimed at black persons .
a prejudice - motivated crime which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of their membership  ( or perceived membership )  in the transgender community .
a prejudice - motivated crime which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of their membership  ( or perceived membership )  in the gay male community .
a prejudice - motivated crime which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of their membership  ( or perceived membership )  in the lesbian community .
hegemonic masculinity is a practice that legitimizes men's dominant position in society and justifies the subordination of women ,  and other marginalized ways of being a man .
a gendered society in which the masculine is considered dominant to the feminine .
a gendered society in which the masculine is considered submissive to the feminine .
a gendered society in which the feminine is considered dominant to the masculine .
a gendered society in which the feminine is considered submissive to the masculine .
female gender roles classified by power structure or roles .
male gender roles classified by power structure or roles .
male gender roles classified by the gender identity of the individual .
female gender roles classified by the gender identity of the individual .
traditional masculinity displayed by a person with a female gender identity .
traditional masculinity displayed by a person with a male gender identity .
traditional femininity displayed by a person with a male gender identity .
traditional femininity displayed by a person with a female gender identity .
male gender roles classified by sexuality .
female gender roles classified by sexuality .
the subculture of gay men who self - identify with what is considered to be traditional ,  heterosexual  ( male )  masculinity .
the subculture of gay women who self - identify with what is considered to be traditional ,  heterosexual  ( female )  femininity .
heterosexual women who self - identify with what is considered to be a traditional femininity .
heterosexual men who self - identify with what is considered to be a traditional masculinity .
stereotypically masculine gender roles that restrict the kinds of emotions allowable for boys and men to express ,  including social expectations that men seek to be dominant  ( the "alpha male" )  and limit their emotional range primarily to expressions of anger .
male gender roles classified by relative role importance in the individual .
female gender roles classified by relative role importance in the individual .
a psychological term for the absence of female stereotypical traits .
a psychological term for the exaggeration of female stereotypical behavior .
a psychological term for the exaggeration of male stereotypical behavior ,  such as an emphasis on physical strength ,  aggression ,  and sexuality .
a psychological term for the absence of male stereotypical traits .
the concept that transgender women are women trapped in men's bodies .
situational sexual behavior differs from that which the person normally exhibits ,  due to a social environment that in some way permits ,  encourages ,  or compels the behavior in question .
primarily heterosexual ,  but open to taking part in a limited amount of homosexual activity .
primarily homosexual ,  but with a limited amount of attraction to the opposite sex ,  or willingness to take part in a heterosexual activity .
the assumption that being queer means that that person is a gay man ;  also the privilege of gay men as normative within the queer community .
various treatment modalities that produce the desired therapeutic effect by means of change of hormone / hormones level .
any therapeutic procedure in which medications are given to replace an absence of a given hormone or hormones .
a form of hormone therapy in which androgens ,  often testosterone ,  are replaced .
a form of hormone therapy used to treat symptoms associated with female menopause .
a form of hormone therapy in which sex hormones and other hormonal medications are administered to transgender individuals for the purpose of more closely aligning their secondary sexual characteristics with their gender identity .
hormone replacement provided to individuals with any of various intersex conditions ,  typically hypogonadism ,  klinefelter syndrome ,  or turner syndrome .
transgender hormone therapy utilizing for the purpose of feminization .
transgender hormone therapy utilizing for the purpose of masculinization .
any therapeutic procedure in which hormone levels are intentionally deprived .
any therapeutic procedure utilized to suppress the effects of hormones .
hormone therapy provided for the purposes of delaying the onset of puberty and the development of secondary sexual characteristics .
hormone therapy provided to transgender youth for the purposes of delaying the onset of puberty and the development of secondary sexual characteristics .
political activities which openly acknowledge how aspects of sociopolitical identity discrimination overlap  ( for example ,  race and gender )  .
a political approach and analysis based on people prioritizing the concerns most relevant to their particular racial ,  religious ,  ethnic ,  sexual ,  social ,  cultural or other identity ,  and forming exclusive political alliances with others of this group ,  instead of engaging in more traditional ,  broad - based party politics .
political activities based upon cultural designations ,  groups ,  and / or relationships between said entities .
a relationship process in which one builds trust and accountability with members of a marginalized group or groups .
allyship which is fabricated ;  allyship which is simulated for any of various purposes  ( such as a political election or for a university's diversity rankings )  .
allyship in which diversity and inclusivity as practiced by the methodologies involved act only on a superficial level ;  allyship which fundamentally misunderstands issues and may actually make situations worse for marginalized peoples .
a state of harmony between internal needs and external demands and the processes used in achieving this condition .
psychological process that occurs when an individual adapts to a significant emotional event or stimulus .
damage to the mind that occurs as a result of a distressing event .
a theory which states that trauma can be transferred from the first generation of trauma survivors to the second and further generations of offspring of the survivors via complex post - traumatic stress disorder mechanisms .
the state of being subjugated ;  forced control by others .
oppression can refer to an authoritarian regime controlling its citizens via state control of politics ,  the monetary system ,  media ,  and the military ;  denying people any meaningful human or civil rights ;  and terrorizing the populace through harsh ,  unjust punishment ,  and a hidden network of obsequious informants reporting to a vicious secret police force .
social oppression is when a single group in society takes advantage of ,  and exercises power over ,  another group using dominance and subordination .
oppression based primarily upon racial categories .
oppression based primarily upon social class .
oppression based primarily upon gender roles ,  gender norms ,  gender identity ,  gender expression ,  or other manifestations of gender .
oppression based primarily upon age .
oppression based primarily upon sexuality .
oppression based primarily upon religion ,  religious sect ,  or particular religious beliefs .
oppression in which an oppressed group comes to use against itself the methods of the oppressor .
a form of internalized oppression in which a member of a given racial group consciously or unconsciously accepts another racial group's racist views ,  stereotypes ,  and biases toward their own racial group .
a qualitative analytic framework that identifies how interlocking systems of power affect those who are most marginalized in society .
the individual rights as applied to members of racial ,  ethnic ,  class ,  religious ,  linguistic or gender and sexual minorities ;  and also the collective rights accorded to minority groups .
rights affecting lgbtq people encompassing everything from the legal recognition of same - sex marriage to the death penalty for homosexuality .
a type of garment fetish in which a person derives pleasure from the diaper and / or use of it .
a sexual fetish that involves role - playing a regression to an infant - like state .
legal rights and freedoms relating to reproduction and reproductive health that vary amongst countries around the world .
the ability to do as one pleases .
the virtues recognized by plato and in the bible ,  old testament ,  classical antiquity and in traditional christian theology as prudence ,  courage ,  temperance ,  and justice .
the ability to govern and discipline oneself by the use of reason .
moderation or voluntary self - restraint .it is typically described in terms of what an individual voluntarily refrains from doing .
the traditional four classical cardinal virtues combined with the three theological virtues  ( faith ,  hope ,  and clarity )  adopted by the church fathers .
an interdisciplinary field of study analyzing the cultural ,  historical ,  and interpersonal impact of the asexual experience on society .
one of the seven heavenly virtues .
the ability to endure difficult circumstances such as perseverance in the face of delay ;  tolerance of provocation without responding in annoyance / anger ;  or forbearance when under strain ,  especially when faced with longer - term difficulties .
a behavior marked by ethical characteristics ,  a pleasant disposition ,  and concern and consideration for others .
the quality of being humble .
one of the seven virtues and is understood by thomas aquinas as "the friendship of man for god" ,  which "unites us to god" .
the rights of individuals to act and make decisions without external constraints .
personal guarantees and freedoms that the government cannot abridge ,  either by law or by judicial interpretation ,  without due process .
a movement aiming to free or liberate a particular group of persons from societal expectations ,  standards ,  bondage ,  or other various types of discriminatory behavior .
a political alignment of women and feminist intellectualism that emerged in the late 1960s and continued into the 1980s primarily in the industrialized nations of the western world ,  which affected great change  ( political ,  intellectual ,  cultural )  throughout the world .
the interests ,  opinions ,  behaviours ,  and behavioral orientations of an individual ,  group ,  or culture .
any change or disturbance in social interaction or ability to socially interact .
social rejection occurs when an individual is deliberately excluded from a social relationship or social interaction .
social exclusion is the process in which individuals are blocked from  ( or denied full access to )  various rights ,  opportunities and resources that are normally available to members of a different group ,  and which are fundamental to social integration and observance of human rights within that particular group .
the separation of individuals or groups resulting in the lack of or minimizing of social contact and / or communication .
when institutions give equal opportunity to people of all races .
social equality for lgbtqia +  persons .
the political status in which the marriages of same - sex couples and the marriages of opposite - sex couples are recognized as equal by the law .
male persons who engage in romantic and / or sexual activity with members of the same sex .
a transgender person who is muslim .
sexual intercourse involving penetration of the inguinal canal ,  typically practiced by transgender women .
the medical portion of gender transition .
the social portion of gender transition during which others are made aware of a person's gender identity .
envy rooted in the absence of a particular anatomical entity .
any of various sexual attractions relation to emotions or emotionality .
sexual attraction or arousal from jealousy .
sexual arousal derived from watching animals copulate .
a code word ,  series of code words or other signal used by a person to communicate their physical or emotional state ,  typically when approaching ,  or crossing ,  a physical ,  emotional ,  or moral boundary .
the use of electronic communication technologies such as social media ,  e - mail ,  and podcasts for various forms of activism to enable faster and more effective communication by citizen movements ,  the delivery of particular information to large and specific audiences as well as coordination .
social activism and advocacy of and for lgbtqia +  persons and communities .
social activism and advocacy for patients and their supporters in health care organizations and associated entities .
social activism and advocacy for patients and their supporters in medical organizations and associated entities .
social activism and advocacy for hiv / aids patients and their supporters in health care and medical organizations and associated entities involved in hiv / aids treatment and research .
the status of being a parent or not being a parent .
the state of being a parent .
the state of being an adoptive parent .
a black person who is male .
a person ,  typically of african descent ,  classed based on the social construction of race primarily prevalent in europe and the americas .
a transgender person who is christian .
black persons categorized by nationality .
black persons categorized by gender .
a person who belongs to an ethnic group of americans with total or partial ancestry from any of the black racial groups of africa .
a person who is of full or partial sub - saharan african descent and who is also a citizen or permanent resident of canada .
black persons categorized by region .
caribbean people whose ancestors were taken from africa via the trans - atlantic slave trade to the caribbean islands between the 15th and 19th centuries to work primarily on various sugar plantations and in domestic households .
europeans who trace at least part of their ancestry to sub - saharan africa ,  mostly to former colonies .
a pronoun which is invented for a specific use or is otherwise a new construction ;  a pronoun which is a neologism .
variation in the human brain regarding sociability ,  learning ,  attention ,  mood and other mental functions in a non - pathological sense .
a transgender person has previously engaged in any of various transition processes and considers themselves to have completed those processes .
a transgender person engaged in the process of social gender transition or any of its associated processes .
a transgender person engaged in the process of medical gender transition or any of its associated processes .
transgender persons as defined by transition types and / or processes .
a transgender person currently engaged in any of various transition processes .
a transgender person who would become engaged in any of various transition processes ,  who has yet to become involved in them .
a transgender person who has previously engaged in the process of surgical gender transition or any of its associated processes .
a transgender person who has previously engaged in the process of medical gender transition or any of its associated processes ,  but has not engaged and does not plan on engaging in any surgical aspects of gender transition .
a transgender person who would like to become engaged in the process of medical gender transition or any of its associated processes .
a transgender person who would like to become engaged in the process of social gender transition or any of its associated processes .
a transgender person who would like to become engaged in the process of surgical gender transition or any of its associated processes .
the practical application of moral considerations .
the study of ethical action .
a branch of philosophy that studies the ontology and nature of the mind and its relationship with the body .
a transgender person who is jewish .
a youth - based subculture with distinct styles ,  behaviors ,  and interests .
a type of subculture whose values and norms of behavior differ substantially from those of mainstream society ,  often in opposition to mainstream cultural mores .
a subculture that began in england during the early 1980s ,  where it developed from the audience of gothic rock ,  an offshoot of the post - punk genre .
a subculture based around a particular kind of fashion ,  fashion sense ,  or overall aesthetic .
any of various subcultures in which participants claim non - human identities for themselves .
a subculture who socially and spiritually identify as not entirely human .
a subculture which stems from the goth subculture and incorporates some elements of bdsm subculture .
a contemporary subculture of therianthropy ,  based on a spiritual or psychological identification ,  or both ,  with animals .
a representation of the experiences and choices of a given person ,  and the knowledge that they gain from these experiences and choices .
any of various life experiences specific to members of a given minority community .
any of various life experiences specific to members of the lgbtq community .
any of various life experiences specific to members of the lesbian community .
any of various life experiences specific to members of the gay male community .
any of various life experiences specific to members of the bisexual community .
any of various life experiences specific to members of the transgender community .
any of various life experiences specific to members of the transmasculine community .
any of various life experiences specific to members of the transfeminine community .
an increase in social acceptance conditional upon concealing an aspect of one's identity  ( be it race ,  gender ,  ethnicity ,  etc .
a social system in which men hold primary power and predominate in roles of political leadership ,  moral authority ,  social privilege and control of property .
a social system in which women hold the primary power positions in roles of political leadership ,  moral authority ,  social privilege and control of property .
any preventive medical treatment started after exposure to a pathogen in order to prevent the infection from occurring .
any of various antiretroviral medications taken after potential hiv exposure to prevent infection .
fetishization of a person or culture belonging to a race or ethnic group ,  including ,  but not limited to ,  having strong racial preferences in dating .
a casting practice in the film industry in which white actors are cast in historically non - white character roles or in roles which are scripted for non - white characters .
any of a variety of marketing and political strategies aimed at promoting products ,  countries ,  people or entities through an appeal to gay -  and / or lgbtq - friendliness ,  in order to be perceived as progressive ,  modern and tolerant .
portrayal of lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  or otherwise queer characters in fiction as heterosexual  ( straight )  ,  making those people appear heterosexual ,  or altering information about historical figures to make their representation comply with heteronormativity .
members of the various professions  ( e .g . ,  physicians )  or occupations  ( e .g . ,  police )  .
a constituted body of persons empowered by a state to enforce the law ,  to protect the lives ,  liberty and possessions of citizens ,  and to prevent crime and civil disorder .
a person who is employed in a particular profession .
a warranted law employee of a police force .
a woman who abstains from sexual activity from men ,  but does not necessarily engage in sexual activity with women .
a political role filled by persons assigned female at birth and those who identify as women .
an anti - authoritarian political philosophy that rejects hierarchies deemed unjust and advocates their replacement with self - managed ,  self - governed societies based on voluntary ,  cooperative institutions .
the period of the anarchist movement continuing from the end of the second world war and into the present .
an anarchist school of thought that advocates anarchism and social revolution as a means of queer liberation and abolition of homophobia ,  lesbophobia ,  transmisogyny ,  biphobia ,  transphobia ,  heteronormativity ,  patriarchy ,  and the gender binary .
an lgbtqia +  movement aiming to free or liberate a particular group of persons from societal expectations ,  standards ,  bondage ,  or other various types of discriminatory behavior .
a system of production ,  resource allocation and distribution of goods and services within a society or a given geographic area .
an economic system in which the decisions regarding investment ,  production and distribution are guided by the price signals created by the forces of supply and demand .
an economic system blending elements of market economies with elements of planned economies ,  free markets with state interventionism ,  or private enterprise with public enterprise .
a type of economic system where investment ,  production and the allocation of capital goods take place according to economy - wide economic plans and production plans .
an economic ideology which posits private ownership of the means of production and their operation for profit in the form of a capitalist market economy .
the incorporation of the lgbtqia +  movement into capitalism and the market economy .
marketing types organized by intended and / or actual target audience .
the act of marketing to lgbtqia +  customers ,  either with dedicated ads or general ads ,  or through sponsorships of lgbtqia +  organizations and events ,  or through the targeted use of any other element of the marketing mix .
a time interval during the lifespan of an organism .
the time of life when one is expected to take responsibility for one's own actions and well - being .
the time during which one is a child ,  from between infancy and puberty .
a sociological concept for a setting in which rape is pervasive and normalized due to societal attitudes about gender and sexuality .
human penile - vaginal penetration in which reproduction is the end goal .
attempts by marginalized groups to police their own members and show their social values as being continuous and compatible with dominant values rather than challenging the mainstream for what they see as its failure to accept difference .
respectability politics in the context of the lgbtqia +  community is the assimilation of lgbtqia +  or otherwise marginalized people based on sexuality into hegemonic and heteronormative society .
a mechanism which governs the behavior of a set of individuals within a given community .
a culturally recognized union between people ,  called spouses ,  that establishes rights and obligations between them ,  as well as between them and their children ,  and between them and their in - laws .
a marriage between two people of the same gender .
a marriage between two people of dfferent genders .
any stimulus involving physical contact of the genitals with another's genitals that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
any stimulus involving physical contact of the vulva with another's vulva that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
any stimulus involving physical contact of the genitals with another's anus that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
any stimulus involving physical contact of the penis with another's penis that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
the process of diagnosing ,  or identifying ,  medical conditions in oneself .
the study of natural phenomena by observation ,  measurement ,  and experimentation .
the application of existing scientific knowledge to practical applications ,  like technology or inventions .
the development of scientific knowledge and predictions ,  principally in natural sciences but also in other empirical sciences ,  which are used as the scientific foundation for applied science .
a branch of science concerned with the description ,  prediction ,  and understanding of natural phenomena ,  based on empirical evidence from observation and experimentation .
a category of academic disciplines concerned with society and the relationships among individuals within a society .
science which explores the cognitive processes within organisms and the behavioral interactions between organisms in the natural world .
this discipline concerns the study of sexuality ,  and the application of sexual knowledge such as sexual attitudes ,  psychology ,  and sexual behavior .
feminist ideologies organized by type of ideology .
feminist ideologies organized by conventional placement in the history of anglo - feminist history .
aa period of feminist activity and thought that occurred during the 19th and early 20th century throughout the anglo - european world .
a period of feminist activity and thought that began in the united states in the early 1960s and lasted roughly two decades .
an iteration of the feminist movement that began in the early 1990s united states and continued until the rise of the fourth wave in the 2010s .
a phase of feminism that began around 2012 and is characterized by a focus on the empowerment of women and the use of internet tools .
a theoretical next wave of feminism which encourages a disconnect between the ideal of a "modern woman" and that person's identity as a modern woman .
a movement that began in the early 1980s centering on the idea that sexual freedom is an essential component of women's freedom .
a social movement that challenged traditional codes of behavior related to sexuality and interpersonal relationships throughout the united states and subsequently ,  the wider world ,  from the 1960s to the 1980s .
a social movement that accepts all forms of love .
social movements related to various aspects of sex and / or sexuality .
a social and philosophical movement that seeks to change cultural attitudes and norms around sexuality ,  promoting the recognition of sexuality  ( in the countless forms of expression )  as a natural and healthy part of the human experience and emphasizing the importance of personal sovereignty ,  safer sex practices ,  and consensual sex  ( free from violence or coercion )  .
laws related to gay rights .
the concept that sexuality is centralized in society ;  otherwise ,  marking a society which centralizes its institutions and structures around sexuality ;  parallels the idea of heteronormativity ,  but in reference to asexuality instead of homosexuality .
a group of thirteen virtues listed by benjamin franklin in his autobiography .
the absence of ambient audible sound ,  the emission of sounds of such low intensity that they do not draw attention to themselves ,  or the state of having ceased to produce sounds ;  this latter sense can be extended to apply to the cessation or absence of any form of communication ,  whether through speech or other medium .
the portion of an individual's self - concept derived from perceived membership in a relevant social group .
internet identity is a social identity that an internet user establishes in online communities and websites .
the gaze of a viewer of a particular sexuality and / or sexual orientation or upon a subject of a given sexuality and / or sexual orientation .
the gaze of the heterosexual viewer ,  specifically in regard to viewing non - heterosexual persons and blindness toward non - heterosexual issues .
the process of groups of organisms working or acting together for common ,  mutual ,  or some underlying benefit ,  as opposed to working in competition for selfish benefit .
an awareness of shared interests ,  objectives ,  standards ,  and sympathies creating a psychological sense of unity of groups or classes .
a device which assists a person in the process of urination .
a device which aids a person to urinate while standing upright .
functional ,  psychosocial ,  emotional and spiritual domains and needs of patients and families following life - threatening disease or events .
a movement within feminism which incorporates transgender women ,  as well as other lgbtqia +  women and assigned - female - at - birth  ( afab )  persons .
a general philosophical strategy for responding to conflicts .
the prevention ,  treatment ,  and management of illness or the preservation of mental and physical well - being through the services offered by the medical ,  nursing ,  and allied health professions .
access to specialized care for transgender populations .
the prevention ,  treatment ,  and management of illness or the preservation of mental and physical well - being for transgender persons .
regret experienced as a result of gender transitioning ,  either socially ,  medically ,  or both .
female persons who engage in romantic and / or sexual activity with members of the same sex .
the act ,  practice ,  or occupation of supervising and taking care of  ( typically )  young children .
a recurrent and patterned process that involves the interactions or responses of individuals in family to one another which have attained stability .
the process of bringing up a child or children .
the process of promoting and supporting the physical ,  emotional ,  social ,  and intellectual development of a child from infancy to adulthood .
lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  and transgender ,  and queer  ( lgbtq )  people raising one or more children as parents or foster care parents .
the raising of one or more children by parents of the same sex and / or gender .
the raising of one or more children by parents of the different sex and / or gender .
a process whereby a person assumes the parenting of another ,  usually a child ,  from that person's biological or legal parent or parents .
the act of placing a child of one racial or ethnic group with adoptive parents of another racial or ethnic group .
the adoption of children by lgbtq people .
the adoption of children by gay male parents .
adoption of a child by parents of the same sex and / or gender .
adoption of a child by parents of the different sex and / or gender .
the adoption of children by lesbian parents .
a flaw in the structure of a deductive argument which renders the argument invalid .
an informal fallacy is a fallacy that originates in a reasoning error other than a flaw in the logical form of the argument .
the informal fallacy of presenting an argument that may or may not be logically valid and sound ,  but  ( whose conclusion )  fails to address the issue in question .
a fallacy of irrelevance that is based solely on someone's or something's history ,  origin ,  or source rather than its current meaning or context .
a fallacious argumentative strategy whereby genuine discussion of the topic at hand is avoided by instead attacking the character ,  motive ,  or other attribute of the person making the argument ,  or persons associated with the argument ,  rather than attacking the substance of the argument itself .
an ad hominem and antidebate tactic based on criticizing a person for expressing emotion .
hatred ,  discrimination ,  and / or prejudice against sex workers .
an aversion to pornography .
a theory which states that a connection exists between various types of oppression ,  specifically classism ,  racism ,  and sexism .
an offshoot of traditional studies of sexology that focuses on the intersectionality of sex and gender in relation to the sexual lives of women .
" [ t ] he human right to maintain personal bodily autonomy ,  have children ,  not have children ,  and parent the children we have in safe and sustainable communities , " according to sistersong women of color reproductive justice collective ,  the first organization founded to build a reproductive justice movement .
a form of liberal feminism that advocates the state's equal treatment of women and men ,  without challenging inequalities perpetuated by employers ,  educational and religious institutions ,  and other elements of society .
the theory that feminist opposition to patriarchy can be achieved through women's separation from men .
a phenomenon within feminism ,  primarily second - wave feminism and radical feminism ;  it includes ,  but is not limited to ,  lesbian separatism .
a branch of political lesbianism which advocates for separation from patriarchal society or from heterosexual society in general .
a movement which stresses the costs of some negative portions of "traditional" masculinity .
a variety of groups and individuals who focus on general social issues and specific government services which they claim adversely impact ,  or in some cases structurally discriminate against ,  men .
a branch of feminism which holds that the experience of black women gives rise to a particular understanding of their position in relation to sexism ,  class oppression ,  and racism .
a genre of contemporary feminism which foregrounds the relationship between cyberspace ,  the internet and technology .
a social theory based on the history and everyday experiences of women of color ,  especially black women .
a branch of cyberfeminism which aims to abolish categorization ,  allowing for the “right of everyone to speak as no one in particular" .
a space that is defined by or primarily utilized by persons of a particular gender identity and / or gender role .
an area where only women are allowed .
an area where only men are allowed .
an area where only women and nonbinary persons are allowed .
an area where persons of any gender are allowed ,  including those with nonbinary identities .
the degree of differences in identifying features among the members of a purposefully defined group ,  specifically in terms of ethnic classifications or in relation to ethnic groups .
diversity which is not focused on inclusion of certain groups ,  but rather their presence to fulfill guidelines ,  unspoken quotas ,  or other non - inclusion - related goals .
the practice of making only a perfunctory or symbolic effort to be inclusive to members of minority groups ,  especially by recruiting a small number of people from underrepresented groups in order to give the appearance of racial or sexual equality within a workforce .
a type of tokenism in media in which a minority person or character is promoted or otherwise given some significance ,  but that person or character is still secondary to non - minority persons or characters in that media .
the position that an individual and / or group occupies or is perceived as occupying within a group and / or society .
the ability for lgbtq persons to be perceived as equal members of society ,  including media presence of said persons .
the ability for transgender persons to be perceived as equal members of society ,  including media presence of said persons .
a person who is harmed by another or who suffers from a calamity .
a cultural practice where nonbinary people are erased from cultural narratives .
a term covering a wide range of transphobic beliefs held by some members of the transgender community .
social rejection by one's peers .
social rejection which occurs when a person refuses the romantic advances of another ,  ignores / avoids or is repulsed by someone who is romantically interested in them ,  or unilaterally ends an existing relationship .
social rejection by one's family .
the insertion of a hand into the vagina as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a hand into the anus as part of sexual behavior .
the insertion of a hand  ( or fist )  into an orifice  ( for example ,  the vagina or anus )  as part of sexual behavior .
sexual intercourse in which the tongue is inserted into the vagina .
a subset of sexual practices in which either real or imagined racial background of a participant or participants is used to justify power imbalance ,  including ,  but not limited to ,  the usage of slurs ,  racial narratives ,  and objects imbued with racial meaning .
pleasure derived from cruelty to non - human animals .
a theoretical concept that describes the use of aspects of marginalized gender expressions in the gender performance or identity of privileged men .
a socio - political system where  ( primarily )  cisgender males and heterosexuals have authority over cisgender females and over other sexual orientations and gender identities .
an approach to thinking about masculinity in the context of social changes that have undermined traditional hegemonic masculinity and its associated homophobia ,  which each have driven men to avoid certain behaviors in order to avoid being publicly perceived as gay ;  it holds that there are increasingly societal spaces in which men no longer need to behave in hypermasculine ways in order to be accepted .
a complimentary field of thought to ecofeminism .
male gender roles classified by culture .
female gender roles classified by culture .
masculinities associated with the reign of queen victoria over the united kingdom from 1836 to 1901 .
femininities associated with the reign of queen victoria over the united kingdom from 1836 to 1901 .
sexual arousal that depends on acting out or imagining one's self as an animal .
a person who is albino or who has a condition known as albinism .
discrimination based on the appearance of somebody's face .
discrimination against bearded persons .
an act which takes into the account of actions and reactions of individuals  ( or "agents" )  .
a social behavior that involves the coordinated behavior of large groups as well as emergent properties of these groups .
a social behavior that involves the coordinated behavior of large groups of similar mammals as well as emergent properties of these groups .
a social behavior that involves the coordinated behavior of large groups of similar primates as well as emergent properties of these groups .
rape or other forms of sexual violence committed by combatants during armed conflict ,  war ,  or military occupation often as spoils of war ;  but sometimes ,  particularly in ethnic conflict ,  the phenomenon has broader sociological motives .
the action of a group who has carried out acts of mass rape during wartime against their perceived enemy as part of a genocidal campaign .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to human behavior or behaviors .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to rape .
a situation in which the perpetrator obtains the victim's agreement to engage in sexual intercourse or other sex acts ,  but gains it by deception or false statements or actions .
a surgery to remove one or both testicles which leaves the glandular tissue that surrounds each testicle in place .
erotic attraction of a woman or older female toward young girls ;  lesbian pederasty .
pederastic relationships and behaviors in ancient rome ,  defined by domination and exploitation .
a genderless language is a natural or constructed language that has no distinctions of grammatical gender—that is ,  no categories requiring morphological agreement between nouns and associated pronouns ,  adjectives ,  articles ,  or verbs .
inclusive language used to describe something in a way which isn't inherently gendered  ( i .e .
figurative  ( or non - literal )  language uses words in a way that deviates from their conventionally accepted definitions in order to convey a more complicated meaning or heightened effect .
literal language uses words exactly according to their conventionally accepted meanings or denotation .
a word or phrase that departs from straightforward ,  literal language .
a figure of speech that relies on the structure of the sentence ,  unlike the trope ,  which plays with the meanings of words .
a common plot convention ,  idea ,  element or theme as a use of figurative language ,  via word ,  phrase or an image ,  for artistic effect such as using a figure of speech .
the use of a word or phrase to replace another with one that is considered less offensive ,  blunt or vulgar than the word or phrase which it replaces .
the use of a derogatory ,  offensive or vulgar word or phrase to replace a  ( more )  neutral original .
dysphemistic terms which hold different meanings in different cultures .
phrases that are euphemisms in certain contexts can be considered dysphemistic in others
having a feminine gender  ( identity )  which is different from the sex one was assigned at birth .
having a masculine gender  ( identity )  which is different from the sex one was assigned at birth .
use of any of various contraceptive methods .
the status of being clothed or unclothed .
the state of being clothed or in clothing .
the state of being nude .
nudity as it socially applies to the female body .
nudity as it socially applies to the male body .
nudity in places or situations considered private in nature .
nudity in places or situations considered public in nature .
nudity practiced by an individual in personally private places or situations .
nudity in sexual places or situations .
nudity in places or situations considered social in nature .
female nudity in which one or more women are nude while one or more men are clothed .
male nudity in which one or more men are nude while one or more women are clothed .
a socially considered nude state in which some intimate parts ,  but not all ,  are exposed .
the state in which a woman's breasts ,  including her areola and nipples ,  are exposed ,  especially in a public place or in a visual medium .
the state of a man wearing no clothes above the waist ,  exposing the upper torso .
a quality that causes sexual feelings ,  as well as a philosophical contemplation concerning the aesthetics of sexual desire ,  sensuality ,  and romantic love .
sexual attraction between members of the same sex ,  either male–male or female–female .
autoeroticism is the practice of becoming sexually stimulated through internal stimuli .
sexual intercourse as it takes place between two men .
sexual intercourse as it takes place between two women .
sexual intercourse as it takes place between a man and a woman .
erotic qualities organized by associated anatomical location .
eroticism primarily deriving from the anus .
eroticism primarily deriving from the mouth .
sexual intercourse involving more than two participants .
drag which derives from the neo - burlesque tradition or is otherwise related to it .
sexual partners organized by their role and / or roles during sexual activities .
partners organized primarily by sexual orientation and / or sexuality or by the sexuality of their partner ( s )  .
the sexual partner who is penetrated by the penetrative partner .
the sexual partner who engages in penetrative sexual behavior .
a person who performs in drag .
any of various methods of care or attention given to a sexual partner or partners after a bdsm - related experience .
the process through which individuals are affirmed in their gender identity through social interactions .
an individual’s true gender ,  as opposed to their gender assigned at birth .
a person who identifies and is affirmed as female .
a person who identifies and is affirmed as male .
the gender which one is assumed to be based on assigned gender at birth .
a state which existed from 1861—when king victor emmanuel ii of sardinia was proclaimed king of italy—until 1946—when civil discontent led an institutional referendum to abandon the monarchy and form the modern italian republic .
persons who cross - dress in order to subvert gender stereotypes or societal norms .
the system of government adopted in france from 1870 ,  when the second french empire collapsed during the franco - prussian war ,  until 10 july 1940 after france's defeat by nazi germany in world war ii led to the formation of the vichy government in france .
the regime of napoleon iii from 1852 to 1870 ,  between the second republic and the third republic ,  in france .
the unofficial name given to the kingdom of the netherlands as it existed between 1815 and 1839 .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the respiratory system .
a medical symptom primarily affecting the respiratory system .
a medical sign primarily affecting the respiratory system .
relatively complete absence of oxygen in one or more tissues .
a state of general hypoxia and hypercapnea ,  resulting in acidosis ,  which affects all tissues in the body .
the intentional restriction of oxygen to the brain for the purposes of sexual arousal .
the intentional restriction of oxygen to one's own brain for the purposes of sexual arousal .
the empire of napoleon bonaparte of france and the dominant power in much of continental europe at the beginning of the 19th century .
death is the permanent cessation of all biological functions that sustain a living ,  physical organism .
death due to erotic and / or sexual means or mechanisms .
accidental or purposeful deaths that occur during sexual self - stimulation when an apparatus ,  device or prop that is being employed to enhance pleasure causes the death .
erotic asphyxiation ;  a sexual practice involving the intentional deprivation of oxygen to the brain by choking ,  hanging ,  or other means .
erotic asphyxiation ;  a fetish involving asphyxia at the moment of orgasm .
implants which form part of the genitourinary system .
a young person who is nonbinary .
a young person who is a bisexual man .
a young person who is a bisexual woman .
sexual sadism disorder in which non - consenting partners are preferred by the person affected .
a category of behavioral disorders that can be loosely defined as the failure to resist an impulsive act or behavior that may be harmful to self or others .
any of various disorders characterized by compulsive sexual behaviors .
a dysfunction involving sexual arousal .
persistent inability to achieve orgasm despite responding to sexual stimulation .
a dysfunction involving sexual desire .
a dysfunction characterized by a recurrent or persistent lack of desire for sexual activity .
sexual arousal based on eavesdropping on persons ,  often those having sex or using the toilet .
sexual arousal from vomiting ,  or from watching others vomit .
consensual psychological humiliation performed in order to produce erotic excitement or sexual arousal .
a relatively uncommon paraphilia in which a subject derives gratification from fire and fire - starting activity .
practice or practices of sexual masochism which is considered compulsive in nature .
practice or practices of sexual masochism which is considered symptomatic of some other condition .
practice or practices of sexual sadism which is considered coercive in nature .
practice or practices of sexual sadism which is considered compulsive in nature .
practice or practices of sexual sadism which is considered symptomatic of some other condition .
practice or practices of sexual sadism upon a corpse or corpses .
exhibitionism considered compulsive in nature .
exhibitionism considered symptomatic of another condition .
pedophilia considered symptomatic of another condition .
pedophilia considered compulsive in nature .
sexual arousal to an object of one's own creation .
a member of certain tribal societies who acts as a religious medium between the concrete and spirit worlds ;  more broadly ,  any traditional faith - based healer .
urination considered erotic and / or sexual in nature .
a medical symptom primarily affecting the abdominal region .
the forcible expulsion of the contents of the stomach through the mouth .
vomiting for the purposes of erotic and / or sexual enjoyment .
sexual arousal from a statue ,  doll ,  mannequin or other similar figurative object .
the period during which developing embryos are incubated in the bodies of some fishes after egg - sperm union .
the status during which female mammals carry their developing young  ( embryos or fetuses )  in utero before birth ,  beginning from fertilization to birth .
the status during which female primates carry their developing young in utero before birth ,  beginning from fertilization to birth .
the status during which humans carry their developing young in utero before birth ,  beginning from fertilization to birth .
discrimination against persons who are bisexual .
discrimination against persons who are gay .
discrimination against persons who are lesbians .
a scythian shaman ;  described as effeminate or androgynous .
discrimination against persons who are transgender .
formal ,  sociotechnical ,  organizational systems designed to collect ,  process ,  store ,  and distribute information .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to lgbtqia +  persons ,  communities ,  or culture .
the state of being a biological parent .
the prevention ,  treatment ,  and management of illness or the preservation of mental and physical well - being for lgbtqia +  persons .
underdeveloped or otherwise smaller than average external genitalia involved in the production / maintenance of female gametes or other processes involving female gametes .
underdeveloped or otherwise smaller than average external genitalia involved in the production / maintenance of male gametes or other processes involving male gametes .
a person who is the partner of a gay man .
a person who is the partner of a lesbian .
a person who is the partner of a bisexual woman .
a person who is the partner of a bisexual man .
a person who is the partner of a heterosexual woman .
a person who is the partner of a heterosexual man .
a person who is the partner of an asexual person .
a person who is the partner of a pansexual person .
supernumerary clitoris .
the ritual cutting or removal of some or all of the external intersex genitalia .
a young person who is intersex .
a range of negative attitudes and feelings toward intersex persons .
a business serving mostly gay men whose primary function is the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises .
a business serving mostly lesbians whose primary function is the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises .
the promotion of the self - affirmation ,  dignity ,  equality ,  and increased visibility of gay men as a social group .
the promotion of the self - affirmation ,  dignity ,  equality ,  and increased visibility of lesbians as a social group .
diversities of sex characteristics ,  sexual orientations ,  sexualities ,  and expressions of those characteristics .
a brunch event accompanied by drag performances or during which drag performers act as waiters or as additional patrons .
a beard grown by some pre - transition transfeminine persons in denial of their transfeminine identity .
a eunuch priest of the phrygian goddess cybele and her consort attis ,  whose worship was incorporated into the state religious practices of ancient rome .
sex designation classified purely ,  or mostly ,  based on an individual's apparent physical sex characteristics ,  particularly genitalia .
persons of color who are queer or transgender .
a person of color who identifies as queer .
a person of color who is transgender .
an interpersonal attraction which leads to the development of spiritual relationships .
theoretical classification of sex based on differences in brain structure observations .
romantic attraction to persons of the same gender / sex .
romantic attraction to persons of a different gender / sex .
a person's gender as represented or recognized in any of various legal systems .
a minority group whose minority status is not immediately obvious ;  or a minority group which is not visible  ( for example .
a place where people engage in sexual activity with sex workers .
a brothel which offers only dolls .
a brothel attached to or otherwise related to members of the military ,  military units ,  or other military groups .
formal or informal groups that organize sex - related activities ,  or establishments where patrons can engage in sex acts with other patrons .
a type of short - stay hotel found around the world operated primarily for the purpose of allowing guests privacy for sexual activities .
any of various commercial venues expressly for women engaging in public sex with other women ,  as opposed to spaces such as parks which may be used for sexual behavior but are intended for general public use .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to lesbians ,  lesbian communities ,  or lesbian culture .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to gay men ,  gay male communities ,  or gay male culture .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to bisexual persons ,  communities ,  or culture .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to transgender persons ,  communities ,  or culture .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to aspects of sexuality .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to aspects of sexual orientation .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to aspects of various kinks or sexual fetishes .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to sex workers and sex work .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to aspects of bdsm and the bdsm community .
an institution that cares for  ( conserves )  a collection of artifacts and other objects of artistic ,  cultural ,  historical ,  or scientific importance .
a curated collection of sources of information and similar resources ,  selected by experts and made accessible to a defined community for reference or borrowing .
a museum that covers lgbtqia +  topics ,  including lgbtqia +  history and culture .
a museum that covers lesbian topics ,  including lesbian history and culture .
a museum that covers gay male topics ,  including gay male history and culture .
a museum that covers bisexual topics ,  including bisexual history and culture .
a museum that covers transgender topics ,  including transgender history and culture .
a library designed to assist physicians ,  health professionals ,  students ,  patients ,  consumers ,  medical researchers ,  and information specialists in finding health and scientific information to improve ,  update ,  assess ,  or evaluate health care .
a building or space for the display of art ,  usually from the museum's own collection .
a museum that covers the knowledge of history and its relevance to the present and future .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials that is primarily owned by a government or is itself a government entity .
an adolescent person belonging to any of various gender minority groups .
sex designation as determined by the presence and / or absence of gonadal tissue  ( typically ovarian or testicular )  .
the ability to become aware of our socio - cultural values ,  beliefs and perceptions and thus understand socio - cultural backgrounds .
awareness of the differences experienced by the lgbtq community including life expectations and discriminatory attitudes .
awareness of the differences in gender roles including life experiences ,  expectations ,  and discriminatory attitudes .
awareness and / or consciousness of the transgender community and being transgender .
awareness of the differences experienced by asexual persons including life expectations and discriminatory attitudes .
awareness of the differences experienced by bisexual persons including life expectations and discriminatory attitudes .
awareness of the differences experienced by intersex persons including life expectations and discriminatory attitudes .
sexuality of transgender persons .
sexuality of cisgender persons .
the systematic arrangement of entities in any field into categories classes based on common characteristics such as properties ,  morphology ,  subject matter ,  etc .
a classification system categorizing some form of scientific knowledge .
any of various systems which attempt to classify biological entities ,  typically organisms .
any of various systems which attempt to classify elements or compounds according to certain chemical functional or structural properties .
a hierarchical classification of things .
a system of knowledge organization by which library resources are arranged and ordered systematically .
the science of naming ,  defining  ( circumscribing )  and classifying groups of biological organisms on the basis of shared characteristics .
the particular form of biological classification  ( taxonomy )  set up by carl linnaeus ,  as set forth in his systema naturae  ( 1735 )  and subsequent works .
the system in which users apply public tags to online items ,  typically to make those items easier for themselves or others to find later .
a classification of the range of different levels at which humans vary in sexual characteristics .
slang related to pornographic sex work or utilized by those engaged by such work .
sexual intercourse occurring in public places .
sexual intercourse occurring in private quarters or spaces .
sexual intercourse which takes place outside the boundaries of a committed relationship ,  implying a lack of emotional attachment or necessary familiarity with sexaul partners .
a commercial experience that blurs the boundaries between a financial transaction and a romantic relationship .
a hole in a wall ,  or other partition ,  often between public lavatory cubicles or adult video arcade booths and lounges ,  for people to engage in sexual activity or observe the person in the next cubicle while one or both parties masturbate .
media related to a particular culture or culture ;  or to any of various subcultures .
media pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
media pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
media pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
media pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
media pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
media pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
media pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
literatures pertaining to ,  or including parts which relate to ,  a specific subculture .
literature pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
literature pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
literature pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
literature pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
literature pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
literature pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
literature pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
a periodical about or otherwise related to a particular subculture or subcultures .
periodicals pertaining especially to lgbtq persons and / or culture .
periodical pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
periodical pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
periodical pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
periodical pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
periodical pertaining especially to intersex people and / or culture .
periodical pertaining especially to transgender people and / or culture .
forms of art in which artists use their voices ,  bodies or inanimate objects to convey artistic expression .
a performing art form consisting of purposefully selected sequences of human movement .
an art form and cultural activity whose medium is sound organized in time .
a collaborative form of performing art that uses live performers ,  typically actors or actresses ,  to present the experience of a real or imagined event before a live audience in a specific place ,  often a stage .
music associated with a particular subculture .
theatre pertaining to ,  or including parts which relate to ,  a specific subculture .
theatre pertaining to ,  or including parts which relate to ,  lgbtqia +  culture ,  persons ,  or the lgbtqia +  community .
theatre pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
theatre pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
theatre pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
theatre pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
theatre pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
theatre pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
a grouping of musical genres that focus on the experiences of gender and sexual minorities as a product of the broad gay liberation movement .
a form of theatrical performance that combines songs ,  spoken dialogue ,  acting and dance .
music pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
music pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
music pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
music pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
music pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
music pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
a device typically found in an individual's residence or household .
a device which is considered attached to a residence ,  in any of various ways ;  otherwise ,  any object related to the functions of the household or persons within it .
any of various devices ,  usually electronic ,  related to any of various household or domestic functions .
an item that is used in play ,  especially one designed for such use .
any toy involving electronic components .
an object or device that is primarily used to facilitate human sexual pleasure ,  such as a dildo or vibrator .
a game that employs electronics to create an interactive system with which a player can play .
an electronic game that involves interaction with a user interface to generate visual feedback on a two -  or three - dimensional video display device such as a tv screen ,  virtual reality headset or computer monitor .
any of various video games which feature characters belonging to a given subculture as playable characters ,  as major characters essential to advancing the plot ,  or gameplay explorations of such a subculture .
any of various video games which feature lgbtqia +  characters as playable characters ,  as major characters essential to advancing the plot ,  or gameplay explorations of sexuality or gender that deviate from the heteronormative in some sense .
any of various video games which feature lesbian characters as playable characters ,  as major characters essential to advancing the plot ,  or gameplay explorations of female homosexuality .
any of various video games which feature gay male characters as playable characters ,  as major characters essential to advancing the plot ,  or gameplay explorations of male homosexuality .
any of various video games which feature bisexual characters as playable characters ,  as major characters essential to advancing the plot ,  or gameplay explorations of bisexuality .
any of various video games which feature transgender characters as playable characters ,  as major characters essential to advancing the plot ,  or gameplay explorations of being transgender .
any of various video games which feature intersex characters as playable characters ,  as major characters essential to advancing the plot ,  or gameplay explorations of intersex conditions and life .
any of various video games which feature asexual characters as playable characters ,  as major characters essential to advancing the plot ,  or gameplay explorations of asexuality .
a sex toy which does not penetrate any parts of a person's anatomy or otherwise does not require penetration .
a sex toy which functions by penetrating some part of a person's anatomy .
sex toys meant for ,  or focused on ,  penile use .
sex toys meant for ,  or focused on ,  vaginal use .
a sex toy which functions by penetrating the anus .
a sex toy which functions by penetrating the vagina .
a vibrator designed for pleasurable penetration of some part of a person's anatomy .
a vibrator designed for pleasurable anal penetration .
a vibrator designed for pleasurable vaginal penetration .
sex toys meant for ,  or focused on ,  anal use .
a sex toy that is used on the body to produce pleasurable sexual stimulation .
a vibrator designed for pleasurable non - penetration ,  such as for the clitoris .
an insertive vibrating sex toy for the purposes of massaging the "g - spot" .
a sex toy which is penetrated by a person's penis or ,  more rarely ,  penetrates the person's person  ( usually by being inserted into the urethra )  .
a sex toy meant for penile use which does not penetrate any parts of a person's anatomy or otherwise does not require penetration .
a sex toy designed to imitate the vagina usually made of a soft material ,  lubricated in some fashion ,  and possibly heated .
a ring worn around the penis ,  usually at the base .
plays pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
musicals pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
plays pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
musicals pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
plays pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
musicals pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
plays pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
musicals pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
plays pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
musicals pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
plays pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
musicals pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
persons organized primarily by their status of having or not having any of various diseases .
persons organized by their sexuality and / or sexual orientation .
persons organized by their given romantic orientation or orientations .
people organized by biological sex status ,  i .e .
a cisgender person who is on the autism spectrum .
a transfeminine person who is on the autism spectrum .
a transmasculine person who is on the autism spectrum .
people who do not have any of various diseases .
a person who does not have a given infection .
a person who does not have hiv .
dance performed for an audience .
ancient history as a term refers to the aggregate of past events from the beginning of writing and recorded human history and extending as far as the post - classical history .
cultural history combines the approaches of anthropology and history to look at popular cultural traditions and cultural interpretations of historical experience .
the history of the developing ,  use ,  and availability of clothing ,  as well as fashion and cultural contexts of clothing .
the history of cross - dressing in which a person wears clothes of a gender expression that one does not identify with .
gender history is a sub - field of history and gender studies ,  which looks at the past from the perspective of gender .
the study of the role that women have played in history and the methods required to do so .
the study of the role that men have played in history .
a branch of social history which studies instances of lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  and transgender behavior and peoples throughout different cultures in ancient history ,  with special regard to the persecution of such people .
a branch of social history which studies instances of lesbian behavior and peoples throughout different cultures ,  with special regard to the persecution of such people .
a branch of social history which studies instances of gay male behavior and gay men throughout different cultures ,  with special regard to the persecution of such people .
a branch of social history which studies instances of bisexual behavior and peoples throughout different cultures ,  with special regard to the persecution of such people .
transgender history begins with transgender  ( in the broad sense ,  including non - binary and third - gender )  people in ancient civilizations on every inhabited continent and continues to the present .
a branch of social history which studies instances of intersex peoples throughout different cultures ,  with special regard to the persecution of such people .
a branch of social history which studies instances of asexual behavior and peoples throughout different cultures ,  with special regard to the persecution of such people .
gender history is a sub - field of history and race studies ,  which looks at the past from the perspective of race and racial categories .
a genre of speculative fiction that typically deals with imaginative and futuristic concepts such as advanced science and technology ,  space exploration ,  time travel ,  parallel universes ,  and extraterrestrial life .
an approach to philosophy from a feminist perspective and also the employment of philosophical methods to feminist topics and questions .
the practical application of moral considerations in the social sphere or in social life .
the study of ethics in relation to human sexuality ,  and sexual behavior .
social activism and advocacy of and for lesbians and lesbian communities .
social activism and advocacy of and for gay men and gay male communities .
social activism and advocacy of and for bisexual persons and communities .
social activism and advocacy of and for transgender persons and communities .
social activism and advocacy of and for intersex persons and communities .
social activism and advocacy of and for asexual persons and communities .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the latinx lgbtq community .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the pansexual community .
various branches of medical practice limited to specialized areas .
medicine that deals with sexual health .
medicine which focuses on the impacts of sex and gender on physiology ,  pathophysiology ,  and other aspects of disease .
branches of medicine organized by specialty ;  a specialty in medicine is a branch of medical practice that is focused on a defined group of patients ,  diseases ,  skills ,  or philosophy .
the medical speciality that deals with the medical management of mental disorders .
the science and medical specialty concerned with the metabolism ,  physiology ,  or hormonal secretions and their physiologic and pathologic relations .
the medical specialty concerned with the study ,  diagnosis ,  and treatment of diseases of the genitourinary tract .
a medical - surgical specialty concerned with the physiology and disorders primarily of the female genital tract ,  as well as female endocrinology and reproductive physiology ;  additionally ,  such a specialty concerned with the physiology and disorders associated with people who menstruate .
a medical - surgical specialty dealing with the care of a person and their offspring during pregnancy ,  childbirth and the puerperium  ( the period shortly after birth )  .
the branch of medicine concerned with the physiological and pathological aspects of the aged ,  including the clinical problems of senescence and senility .
the branch of medicine concerned with the treatment of infants and children .
abortion is the ending of pregnancy due to removing an embryo or fetus before it can survive outside the uterus .
intentional removal of a fetus from the uterus by any of a number of techniques .
an abortion induced in a manner considered legal .
an abortion induced in a manner considered illegal .
a medical abortion is a type of non - surgical abortion in which medication is used to bring about abortion .
spontaneous abortion ,  also known as miscarriage ,  is the unintentional expulsion of an embryo or fetus before the 24th week of gestation .
abortion performed because of perceived possible fetal defects .
an abortion induced when the pregnancy endangers the pregnant parent's life or if the embryo or fetus is determined to have severe birth defects making a successful birth extremely unlikely .
voluntary interruption of a pregnancy .
a core pattern of emotions ,  memories ,  perceptions ,  and wishes in the personal unconscious organized around a common theme ,  such as power or status .
the fear of emasculation in both the literal and metaphorical sense .
a girl's psychosexual competition with her mother for possession of her father .
attachment of the child to the parent of the opposite sex ,  accompanied by envious and aggressive feelings toward the parent of the same sex .
a phenomenon affecting people who seek heroism or recognition ,  usually by creating a situation which they can resolve .
a complex describing women's fear of independence – an unconscious desire to be taken care of by others .
an unshakable belief characterized by consistently inflated feelings of personal ability ,  privilege ,  or infallibility .
the incestuous sexual desire of a mother towards her son .
attraction to young or prepubescent girls or the japanese discourse or media focusing on such attraction .
the inability to maintain sexual arousal within a committed ,  loving relationship .
a desire of the feeling of being a martyr for one's own sake ,  seeking out suffering or persecution because it either feeds a psychological need or a desire to avoid responsibility .
primarily the sexual desire of a stepmother for her stepson ,  though the term has been extended to cover difficult relationships between stepparents and stepchildren in general .
a theorized inferiority complex normally attributed to people of short stature .
a desire to be punished ,  often employed by psychoanalyst criminologists to explain crime .
a pathological behavior pattern that is specific to a particular geographic ,  ethnic ,  or cultural group .
the sentiment of desiring the ability to become pregnant or the state of being pregnant .
art forms such as painting ,  drawing ,  printmaking ,  sculpture ,  ceramics ,  photography ,  video ,  filmmaking ,  design ,  crafts ,  and architecture .
any specifically defined piece of work that is undertaken or attempted to meet a single requirement .
any project with artistic components .
any project with artistic components that pertains to a particular subculture .
any project with artistic components that pertains to lgbtqia +  persons or culture or to the lgbtqia +  community .
a dictionary about or otherwise related to a particular subculture or subcultures .
dictionaries pertaining especially to lgbtq persons and / or culture .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to asexual persons ,  communities ,  or culture .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials pertaining specifically to intersex persons ,  communities ,  or culture .
dictionaries pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
dictionaries pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
dictionaries pertaining especially to bisexuality and / or bisexual culture .
dictionaries pertaining especially to transgender people and / or transgender culture .
dictionaries pertaining especially to intersex conditions ,  intersex people and / or intersex culture .
dictionaries pertaining especially to asexuality and / or asexual culture .
a reference book containing an alphabetical list of slang ,  which is vernacular vocabulary not generally acceptable in formal usage ,  usually including information given for each word ,  including meaning ,  pronunciation ,  and etymology .
an alphabetical list of technical terms in some specialized field of knowledge ;  usually published as an appendix to a text on that field .
a glossary of terms related to a particular subculture .
a glossary of terms related to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
a glossary of terms related to lesbian people and / or lesbian culture .
a glossary of terms related to gay men and / or gay male culture .
a glossary of terms related to bisexuality and / or bisexual culture .
a glossary of terms related to transgender people and / or transgender culture .
a glossary of terms related to intersex conditions ,  intersex people and / or intersex culture .
a glossary of terms related to asexuality and / or asexual culture .
a glossary of terms related to medicine .
parties specific to the transgender community and transgender people .
a party held in order to "repeal" a transgender person's sex assigned at birth and celebrate their gender identity .
a party whose primary purpose is to give gifts to the guest of honor .
a celebration during which parents ,  friends and family find out the sex of a baby .
a party of gift - giving or a ceremony that has different names in different cultures .
affection without any limitations ,  or love without conditions .
love touted as unconditional ,  but potentially dependent on one's status or identity ,  for example ,  if one is gay or transgender .
any small - scale verbal or physical interaction between those of different races ,  cultures ,  beliefs ,  or genders that has no malicious intent ,  but that can be interpreted as an aggression .
a demographic group  ( whether based on ethnicity ,  race or religion )  whose members are perceived to achieve a higher degree of socioeconomic success than the population average .
an explicit racial derogation ;  verbal / nonverbal ;  e .g .
communications that convey rudeness and insensitivity and demean a person's racial heritage or identity ;  subtle snubs ;  unknown to the perpetrator ;  hidden insulting message to the recipient of color .
communications that exclude ,  negate ,  or nullify the psychological thoughts ,  feelings ,  or experiential reality of a person belonging to a particular group .
a man who is not intersex .
a woman who is not intersex .
a child who is intersex .
boys in a small community in the dominican republic whose penises appear to miraculously appear at the onset of puberty at around age twelve ,  causing them to be mistaken as girls until that point .
a childhood - aged person belonging to any of various minority groups .
an childhood - aged person belonging to any of various ethnic minority groups .
a young person who is gender nonconforming .
an adolescent person who expresses gender nonconformity .
communities characterized as belong to any of various gender and / or sexual minority groups .
female persons who engage in sexual activity with men and women ,  regardless of how they identify themselves .
a change in the way a number of different disciplines approach their work .
an art movement is a tendency or style in art with a specific common philosophy or goal ,  followed by a group of artists during a restricted period of time ,   ( usually a few months ,  years or decades )  or ,  at least ,  with the heyday of the movement defined within a number of years .
a late - 19th - century artistic and literary movement ,  centered in western europe ,  that followed an aesthetic ideology of excess and artificiality .
in psychoanalysis ,  phallic woman is a concept to describe a woman with the symbolic attributes of the phallus .
love of humanity or humans .
fondness ,  love ,  or admiration towards men .
fondness ,  love ,  or admiration towards women .
any and all devices related to sexual contact ,  intercourse ,  or other activity .
any of a variety of devices invented for the purpose of preventing or deterring rape .
a mechanical device used to simulate human sexual intercourse or other sexual activity .
the privileging of the masculine  ( phallus )  in the construction of meaning .
a culture - specific acute delusional syndrome occurring mostly in the malay people and southern chinese .
a state of agitation felt by an individual whose sexual satisfaction is considerably less than desired .
a cisgender person who is a lesbian .
adolescent persons expressing a particular gender and / or genders ,  or identifying with a gender and / or genders .
an adolescent person who is male .
an adolescent person who is female .
an adolescent person who is a transgender woman .
an adolescent person who is a transgender man .
an intersex person who identifies as nonbinary .
love of oneself .
the pursuit of gratification from vanity or egotistic admiration of one's idealised self image and attributes .
a tendency to exaggerate the positive image and importance of a group the individual belongs to – i .e .
narcissism in which persons tend to steer the conversation away from others and toward themselves .
narcissism of a culture in which every activity and relationship is defined by the hedonistic need to acquire the symbols of wealth .
the constant exhibition of numerous and intense characteristics usually associated with the pathological narcissist but having fewer characteristics than pathological narcissism .
the characteristic of possessing realistic self - esteem without being cut off from a shared emotional life ,  as the unhealthy narcissist tends to be .
a syndrome consisting of a cross breed of the narcissistic personality disorder ,  the antisocial personality disorder ,  as well as paranoid traits .
the need of health professionals to preserve their self - esteem leading to the compromise of error disclosure to patients .
the theoretical primitive stage of libidinal development ,  said to be gastrointestinal in nature .
an egocentric pattern of sexual behavior that involves an inflated sense of sexual ability and sexual entitlement .
engagement in narcissistic behaviors in the workplace which may lead to counterproductive work behavior .
events pertaining to or focused on sex work or some aspect of sex work .
an academic organization is a lawfully recognized organization that confers diplomas ,  degrees and other forms of recognition of academic achievement .
a university is an institution of higher education and research which grants academic degrees in a variety of subjects and provides both undergraduate education and postgraduate education .
organizations which provide educational services .
an organizational body created to serve a particular purpose .
an research institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
an medical research institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
an sexological research institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
conferences pertaining primarily to sexological topics .
an organization that exists to promote an academic discipline ,  profession ,  or a group of related disciplines such as the arts and science .
societies whose membership is limited to historians .
societies whose membership is limited to physicians .
societies whose membership is limited to scientists .
societies whose membership is limited to psychologists .
societies whose membership is limited to sexologists .
a person who is the victim of genocide .
a person who was killed during or who died as a result of the holocaust .
a person who has been murdered .
a person who has committed suicide .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their being gay men .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their being lesbians .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their being bisexual .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their being transgender .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their being intersex .
the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group of individuals as a response to their being asexual .
a periodical publication intended to further the progress of science ,  usually by reporting new research .
any of various journals which communicate academic study and research in the humanities .
a peer - reviewed scientific journal that communicates medical information to physicians and other health professionals .
medical journals which cover endocrinological topics .
medical journals which cover pediatric topics .
scientific journals which cover disciplines falling under the natural sciences .
scientific journals which cover disciplines falling under the social sciences .
scientific journals which cover anthropological topics .
scientific journals which cover archaeological topics .
medical journals which cover psychiatric topics .
scientific journals which cover psychological topics .
scientific journals which cover political science topics .
scientific journals which cover sexological topics .
academic journals which cover law topics .
scientific journals which cover educational topics .
medical journals which cover gynecological topics .
scientific journals which cover history topics .
medical journals which cover gerontological topics .
academic journals which cover gender studies topics .
academic journals which cover women's studies topics .
academic journals which cover linguistics topics .
scientific journals which cover biological topics .
medical journals which cover surgical topics .
medical journals which cover radiological topics .
medical journals which cover cardiological topics .
a classification system used to transform descriptions of medical diagnoses or procedures into standardized statistical code in a process known as clinical coding .
an organization dedicated to furthering a particular social cause or advocating for a shared point of view .
non - profit organizations concerned with various aspects of health ,  e .g . ,  education ,  promotion ,  treatment ,  services ,  etc .
an increase in social acceptance conditional upon concealing one's status as being transgender ;  i .e .
institutions which provide educational services .
an institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
a national institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
an international institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
a scientific institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
an art institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
a sexological institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
an organization which aims to further a particular profession ,  the interests of individuals engaged in that profession ,  and the public interest .
a trade association that brings together practitioners of a particular geographical area  ( a country ,  region ,  province )  .
professional associations formed of and for psychiatrists .
professional associations formed of and for psychologists .
a dictionary covering sexological subjects or terms related to sexology .
professional associations formed of and for sexologists .
a professional association of lawyers .
estradiol taken orally in the form of a pill .
a title which describes a person or some aspect of a person .
a title that conveys esteem ,  courtesy ,  or respect for position or rank when used in addressing or referring to a person .
an honorific title which is gendered in some sense .
an honorific title related to one's occupation .
an honorific title which is feminine .
an honorific title which is masculine .
an honorific title which is gender - neutral or otherwise has no gender associated with it .
medical journals which cover obstetric topics .
scientific journals which cover criminological topics .
scientific journals which cover sociological topics .
belief that it is possible for a person to love multiple persons simultaneously .
a form of polyandry in which a set of brothers are married or otherwise involved with the same female .
a marital union in which the spouses are selected by individuals other than the couple themselves ,  particularly by family members such as the parents .
a marriage with arrangements or structures in place which permit one or both parties to be involved in external romantic and / or sexual relationships .
a marriage in which one or more of the parties is married without their consent or against their will .
a marriage in which one of the participating members is deceased .
the practice of marrying an elderly person exclusively for the purpose of gaining access to their estate upon their death .
a marriage contracted for reasons other than a relationship of mutual affection .
a male - female mixed marriage of convenience undertaken to conceal the socially stigmatized sexual orientations of one or both parties .
a marriage of convenience entered into without intending to create a real marital relationship .
a marriage of convenience between a legal resident of the united states of america and a person who would be ineligible for residency but for being married to the resident .
a form of non - monogamy in which relationships or pairings are not engaged in ;  or a society which does not recognize or otherwise have a form of marriage .
a loosely defined grouping of persons who practice any of various forms of swinging .
a loosely defined grouping of persons who practice any of various forms of polyamory .
monogamy in which external sexual relations are allowed ,  as long as there is no exchange of bodily fluids .
candaulism is a sexual practice or fantasy in which a man exposes his female partner ,  or images of her ,  to other people for their voyeuristic pleasure .
a family including three of more adults who live in close proximity and share responsibilities .
the harvesting of habits important for the success of the community .
the quality of faithfulness or loyalty .
engaging in sexual activities only with one's parter or partners .
a demographic parameter indicating a person's current relationship status .
jealousy based primarily on suspected or imminent sexual and / or romantic infidelity ,  whether real or imagined .
a pattern of repeat behavior requiring little conscious thought .
a practice ,  behavior ,  or habit generally considered immoral ,  sinful ,  criminal ,  rude ,  taboo ,  depraved ,  or degrading in the associated society .
a violation of a partner's assumed or stated contract regarding emotional and / or sexual exclusivity .
a violation of a marital partner's assumed or stated contract regarding emotional and / or sexual exclusivity .
a marriage in which romantic or sexual intimacy outside the marriage is not permitted .
a relationship in which three of more persons consider themselves to be married to one another ,  or such a group that are all married to one another .
a group marriage in which romantic or sexual intimacy outside the marriage is not permitted .
a sexual relationship ,  monogamous or otherwise ,  which is not open to additional sexual connections .
a polyamorous relationship involving two or more married couples who share the same space or cohabitate .
the idea ,  often held in particular cults ,  that once a person joins a community that are married to the other members ,  usually in a heteronormative sense .
a lifestyle in which persons participate in sexual activity as a form on non - monogamy or otherwise open relationship pattern .
swinging in which a group exchange partners and have sexual intercourse in non - group settings .
swinging in which a group exchange partners and have sexual intercourse in group settings .
a relationship in which the two persons involved are part of external couples .
a group marriage which is registered as a legal corporation to circumnavigate such marriages not being recognized in many areas .
a marriage with a legal clause which disallows divorce or simple divorce .
engaging in romantic activities only with one's parter or partners .
a fear of being abandoned or neglected by a sexual partner ,  especially if that partner expresses romantic and / or sexual interest in another person or persons .
a four - person group marriage ,  usually with two men and two women .
swinging in which additional partners are not anonymous or random ,  but persons who are already close friends .
a friend with whom one participates in sexual activities with .
non - monogamous relationships or arrangements in which partners are permitted to pursue other persons sexually when physically apart .
a relationship in which the persons involved do not live together and are separated by some distance in which seeing each other regularly is uncommon .
a relationship in which the persons involved do not live together ,  but are not separated by distance and so see each other regularly .
a partner in a polyamorous relationship who is noted as having a higher degree of emotional and / or sexual involvement than a non - primary partner .
a family group consisting of two parents and their children  ( one or more )  .
a partner in a polyamorous relationship who is noted as having a lower degree of emotional and / or sexual involvement than a primary partner .
a partner in a polyamorous relationship who is noted as having a lower degree of emotional and / or sexual involvement than a primary partner but a higher degree than that of a tertiary partner .
a partner in a polyamorous relationship who is noted as having a lower degree of emotional and / or sexual involvement than a secondary partner .
marital infidelity which occurs under certain  ( usually threatened )  circumstances .
recurrent genital pain occurring during ,  before ,  or after sexual intercourse .
pain experienced after coitus .
pain experienced during coitus .
pain experienced before coitus .
pain related to the process of sexual penetration  ( usually of the vagina )  .
pain related to the process of orgasm .
psychogenic pain related to coitus .
physiological pain related to coitus .
fear of ,  dislike of or prejudice against nonbinary people .
fear ,  dislike ,  or hatred of gender - nonconforming individuals or behavior .
vaginismus in which someone has never been able to have penetrative intercourse .
vaginismus in which someone had previously been able to have penetrative intercourse .
vaginismus that occurs with the onset of menopause .
vaginismus that occurs near the onset of menopause .
becoming physiologically capable of sexual reproduction as marked by genital maturation and development of secondary sex characteristics .
the development of one's sexuality ,  including sexual preferences and sexual orientation .
consecutive parts of psychosexual development .
consecutive parts of psychosexual development according to sigmund freud .
the stages of development of the psychological aspects of sexuality from birth to adulthood .
scientific theories falling under the scope of the field of psychology .
conceptual system developed by freud and his followers in which unconscious motivations are considered to shape normal and abnormal personality development and behavior .
sexual behavior that has a significantly high chance of resulting in the transmission of sexual infections ,  unplanned pregnancy ,  or other negative consequences .
behavior considered of an normal sexual nature and therefore likely not clinically significant .
consecutive parts of psychosexual development which occur abnormally .
consecutive parts of psychosexual development which occur normally .
normative sex play due to curiosity observed between siblings .
normative sex play due to curiosity observed in adolescence .
normative sex play due to curiosity observed in a group of persons .
normative sex play due to curiosity observed between companions .
a new pattern of perceptual or ideational material derived from past experience .
a series of thoughts ,  images ,  or emotions occurring during sleep which are dissociated from the usual stream of consciousness of the waking state .
an imagined sequence of events or mental images ,  e .g . ,  daydreams .
a mental image or pattern of thought that stirs a person's sexuality and can create or enhance sexual arousal .
a sexual fantasy involving imagining or pretending being coerced or coercing another into sexual activity .
excitement that is sexual in nature .
any sort of masturbation considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
a significant amount of masturbation considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
normative sex play between members of different sexes and / or genders .
nudity practiced in the home or in domestic places or situations .
nudity of the parents in a family unit .
any stimulus which does not involve physical contact that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
pornographic stimulus that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
nonnormative development of sexual characteristics or sex organs .
a sexual relationship which includes aspects of abuse ,  sexual or otherwise .
sexual intercourse that is forced upon one ,  both ,  or more parties involved .
any stimulus involving physical contact of the genitals with another's hand that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
manual stimulation of the clitoris primarily using a hand or hands .
manual stimulation of the penis primarily using a hand or hands .
any sort of clitoral erectile behavior or process considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
a condition in which clitoral erection is painful .
any of various sexual functions which are considered nonnormative .
any of various sexual functions which are considered normative .
secondary sexual development induced by sex steroids from other abnormal sources  ( such as gonadal tumors or environmental exogenous hormones )  .
masturbation performed habitually as part of a routine .
the state of overwhelming eroticism ;  when eroticism engulfs other qualities .
promiscuity pursued habitually .
promiscuity considered pathological in nature .
dreams involving sexual components ,  especially those involving sexual intercourse .
an involuntary ejaculation accompanying an erotic dream .
the second stage of psychosexual development is the anal stage ,  spanning from the age of eighteen months to three years ,  wherein the infant's erogenous zone changes from the mouth  ( the upper digestive tract )  to the anus  ( the lower digestive tract )  ,  while the ego formation continues .
the fifth stage of psychosexual development is the genital stage that spans puberty through adult life ,  and thus represents most of a person's life ;  its purpose is the psychological detachment and independence from the parents .
the fourth stage of psychosexual development is the latency stage that spans from the age of six years until puberty ,  wherein the child consolidates the character habits they developed in the three ,  earlier stages of psychologic and sexual development .
the first stage of psychosexual development is the oral stage ,  spanning from birth until the age of one year ,  wherein the infant's mouth is the focus of libidinal gratification derived from the pleasure of feeding at the mother's breast ,  and from the oral exploration of his or her environment ,  i .e .
the third stage of psychosexual development is the phallic stage ,  spanning the ages of three to six years ,  wherein the child's genitalia are his or her primary erogenous zone .
nonnormative development of one's sexuality .
normative development of one's sexuality .
lack of development of sexual characteristics or sex organs .
exploration of different aspects of sex and sexuality including behaviors and relationships .
exploration of different aspects of one's own genitalia ,  especially in reference to sexual function .
sexual partners in which sexual activities take place outside of the confines of romantically / sexually committed relationships .
sexual partners who fall within the same age bracket ,  colloquially known as a generation .
sexual partners who fall in different age brackets ,  colloquially known as a generations .
the state or quality of eroticism related to attraction to other persons ,  rather than to one's self  ( autoeroticism )  .
any sort of sexual interest or process change considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
a increased interest in sexual activity or behavior or a particular kind of sexual activity or behavior .
a lowered interest in sexual activity or behavior or a particular kind of sexual activity or behavior .
an unwelcome and persistent idea ,  image or thought that is upsetting to an individual .
thoughts of a sexual nature .
thoughts of a harmful nature to oneself or others .
thoughts of harming oneself .
thoughts of suicide or involving suicide .
a syndrome ,  sometimes referred as erotomania ,  in which a person delusionally believes a person of higher social status  ( such as a celebrity )  to be in love with them .
thoughts of a sexually obscene nature .
thoughts involving sexual violence .
thoughts involving rape .
a prolonged painful penile erection that may lasts hours and is not associated with sexual activity .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the clitoris .
a condition characterized by recurrent pain associated with clitoral erection .
priapism caused by ischemia .
priapism not caused by ischemia .
any of various vascular disorders which affect the penis .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the ovary .
a disorder characterized by abnormal function or appearance of the testis .
the partial or complete wasting away of a part of the body .
a degeneration in the functioning of an organ due to the loss of cells .
hypotrophy of the testicles .
atrophy of the testicle manifested by a decrease in size and potentially by a loss of fertility .
testicular atrophy induced by the presence of some androgen .
a disorder characterized by decreased function of the gonads .
a condition where there is a hyperfunction of the gonads .
a hypogonadism characterized by a impaired signalling by gonadotrpin relasing hormone .
ovarian or testicular dysfunction associated with high levels of gonadotropins .
hypergonadotropic hypogonadism that is congenital in nature .
insufficient production of estrogen or testosterone in the ovaries or testes due to decreased secretion of gonadotropins as a result of pituitary or hypothalamus gland dysfunction that is present at birth .
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism ,  the cause of which is not present from birth .
a developmental defect in which a testis or both testes failed to descend from high in the abdomen to the bottom of the scrotum .
an endocrine situation and subtype of hypergonadism in which both gonadotropin levels and gonadal function ,  such as sex hormone production ,  are abnormally high .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the breast .
the normal or spontaneous atrophy or shrinkage of the breasts .
excessive enlargement of one or both breasts .
underdevelopment of the breast .
enlargement of the breast in the males ,  caused by an excess of estrogens .
gynecomastia that is due to exogenous substances or disease processes .
gynecomastia that occurs during puberty and is not due to exogenous substances or disease processes .
gynecomastia induced by any of various drugs .
gynecomastia induced by increased or elevated hcg  ( hcg )  .
failure to develop and congenital absence of the breast .
a disorder not necessarily related to pregnancy that is observed in females and males .
any of various disorders affecting the nipple .
a function of the breast or breast tissue .
testis which have not descended from the abdomen into the scrotum during the late part of pregnancy .
inflammation of a testis .it has many features of epididymitis ,  such as swollen scrotum ;  pain ;  pyuria ;  and fever .
testis which have atrophied .
infections organized by the primary area of infection .
infections of the breast .
infections primarily affecting the genitalia .
infections primarily affecting the genitourinary system .
infections primarily affecting the urinary tract .
a bacterial ,  viral ,  or fungal infectious process affecting the urethra .
infections primarily affecting the bladder .
infections primarily affecting the kidney or kidneys .
infections primarily affecting the ovary or ovaries .
infections primarily affecting the testes .
infections primarily affecting the prostate .
infections primarily affecting the vagina .
infections primarily affecting the vulva .
infections primarily affecting the penis .
a uterine disease characterized by inflammation .
the state of having lactation suppressed by pharmaceutical or non - pharmaceutical means .
any of various breast disorders which occur postpartum .
a disease involving the breast .
transient bilateral swelling of breast tissue in a neonate that results from the waning influence of maternal estrogen .
inflammation of breast tissue during lactation or postpartum due to an obstructed duct or infection .
a vulva which has atrophied .
a disease involving the cervix .
a disease involving the endometrium .
a disease involving the placenta .
any of various syndromes primarily affecting the reproductive system of the body .
a syndrome which primarily affects the uterus .
a syndrome characterized by hematometra ,  a medical condition involving collection or retention of blood in the uterus .
a syndrome which primarily affects the penis .
an acquired uterine condition that occurs when scar tissue  ( adhesions )  form inside the uterus and / or the cervix .
a syndrome which primarily affects the testicles .
occurs when an individual who is chromosomally male  ( has an x and y chromosome )  is unresponsive to androgen .
breast hypertrophy in which excessive tissue weighs less than 1 .5 kilograms  ( 3 .3 lbs .
breast hypertrophy in which excessive tissue weighs greater than than 1 .5 kilograms  ( 3 .3 lbs .
sexual behavior during which a person is sexually penetrated multiple times concurrently .
penetration of the vagina with two anatomical parts  ( typically penises )  or objects .
the insertion of an object or objects into the anus as part of sexual behavior .
an adolescent person belonging to any of various sexual minority groups .
romantic attraction which one does not want to have reciprocated .
romantic attraction to persons of any gender and / or regardless of their gender .
the individual difference in the willingness to engage in sexual activity outside of a committed relationship .
relationship practices in which one only has one intimate partnership at a time .
relationship practices in which one has more than one intimate partnership simultaneously .
a person who is asexual and biromantic .
a person who is asexual and homoromantic .
a person who is asexual and heteroromantic .
a person who is biromantic .
a person who is homoromantic .
a person who is heteroromantic .
instant sense of sexual attraction .
sexual attraction which becomes stronger based on the quality and length of the relationship .
sexuality in which a person can be aroused by sexual material  ( such as pornography )  and who participates in sex acts like masturbation ,  but otherwise has no interest in having a sexual partner or external sexual interactions .
the belief that every person should be either sexually available or in a sexual relationship .
one who advocates for asexual people .
the human practice of defecating outside  ( in the open environment )  rather than into a toilet .
defecation considered erotic and / or sexual in nature .
a bondage technique which involves the securing of one's hair in order to limit the mobility of one's head .
voluntary authorization ,  by a patient or research subject ,  with full comprehension of the risks involved ,  for diagnostic or investigative procedures ,  and for medical and surgical treatment .
events pertaining to or focused on bdsm or some aspects of bdsm .
a gathering of persons for the purpose of engaging in bdsm .
a polyamorous group of persons committed to one another ,  not having sexual and / or romantic ties to others outside of the group .
a party held for a transgender person after they come out ,  usually involving items that they might need for a successful social transition  ( such as gender - affirming clothing )  .
biphobia against oneself supposedly caused by one's own repressed bisexuality .
a nonbinary and / or androgynous drag performer .
behavior indicative of sexism or that is otherwise considered sexist in nature .
a form of punishment whose main feature is dishonoring or disgracing a person ,  usually an offender or a prisoner ,  especially in a public place .
the act of shifting a submissive woman into the role of a "bimbo"  ( that is ,  an attractive yet unintelligent and / or frivolous young woman )  for the purposes of erotic and / or sexual play .
a symbol or combination of symbols which is assigned to the members of a collection .
a system for displaying information by using different colors .
a slogan that arose in the late 1980s and early 1990s that has primarily been used by social conservatives as a political stance and strategy .
experience of romantic attraction .
polyamorous relationships in which partners fall within particular hierarchies as primaries ,  secondaries ,  etc .
a partner in a polyamorous relationship that one lives with .
syphilis acquired in utero and manifested by any of several characteristic tooth  ( hutchinson's teeth )  or bone malformations and by active mucocutaneous syphilis at birth or shortly thereafter .
a syphilis that is the first stage of syphilis ,  marked by the development of a chancre ,  which is characterized by mononuclear leukocytic infiltration ,  macrophages ,  and lymphocytes .
a syphilis that is characterized as the second stage of syphilis which appears from 2 to 6 months after primary infection ,  and is marked by lesions especially in the skin but also in organs and tissues ,  and that lasts from 3 to 12 weeks .
a sexually transmitted infection caused by the gram - negative spirochete treponema pallidum .
an intense desire to consume a specific food ,  and is different from normal hunger .
excessive desire to eat sweet foods .
an excessive desire to eat salt  ( sodium chloride )  or salty foods .
an intense ,  urgent ,  or abnormal desire or longing for nicotine .
a craving specifically for chocolate .
usage of gender language ,  such as pronouns ,  to refer to objects which do not express gender or sex at all  ( for example ,  referring to a boat as "she" )  .
something that misleads or distracts from a relevant or important question .
use of homosexuality as a device to distract ,  as during the "lavender scare" of the 1950s in the united states .
racism as practiced by persons who are part of the lgbtqia +  community , 
a micronation established as a symbolic political protest by a group of gay rights activists based in australia .
a removal of people who are considered undesirable by those in power from a government ,  another organization ,  their team leaders ,  or society as a whole .
a removal of lgbtq persons by those in power from a government ,  another organization ,  their team leaders ,  or society as a whole .
a removal of primarily gay men by those in power from a government ,  another organization ,  their team leaders ,  or society as a whole .
a removal of primarily gay women by those in power from a government ,  another organization ,  their team leaders ,  or society as a whole .
one of the eight federal districts of russia .
any of various devices utilized for the purposes of personal hygiene .
personal care products used by menstruators during menstruation or vaginal discharge .
any of various menstruation devices that can only be used once and then must be disposed .
any of various menstruation devices that can be used multiple times .
a hygiene product designed to absorb the menstrual flow by insertion into the vagina during menstruation .
a hygiene device that is inserted into the vagina during menstruation .
an absorbent item worn in the underwear by persons who are menstruating ,  bleeding after giving birth ,  recovering from gynecologic surgery ,  experiencing a miscarriage or abortion ,  or in any other situation where it is necessary to absorb a flow of blood from the vagina .
public international organizations and agencies of international government .
to refer to a person using terms that express the wrong gender ,  either accidentally or deliberately ;  for example by calling a woman "son" ,  a boy "she" ,  or an agender individual "he" or "she" instead of "they"  ( or whatever other pronouns they prefer )  .
breasts part of the body of a cisgender person who has a feminine gender identity or who has otherwise experienced breast development due to the presence of feminizing hormones .
breasts part of the body of a cisgender person who has a masculine gender identity or who has otherwise not experienced breast development due to a lack of feminizing hormones .
breasts part of the body of a transgender person who has a feminine gender identity or who has otherwise experienced breast development due to the presence of feminizing hormones .
breasts part of the body of a transgender person who has a masculine gender identity or who has otherwise not experienced breast development due to a lack of feminizing hormones .
a procedure in which a stream of liquid is introduced into a body cavity ,  most commonly the vagina ,  for medical or hygienic reasons .
a douche utilized for the purposes of vaginal irrigation .
a device designed to rinse the rectum with the intent to clean it ,  in many cases in preparation for anal intercourse .
any garment worn underneath others ,  especially one worn next to the skin ;  an item of underwear .
clothing as sorted by primary anatomical usage .
an item of clothing that is worn on the foot
accessories worn on the hand .
any element of clothing which is worn on one's head .
various styles of clothing worn around the  ( human )  neck .
clothing ,  as sorted by particular events or occasions .
clothing designed to be worn while sleeping .
items of clothing designed to be worn by people engaging in a water - based activity or water sports ,  such as swimming ,  diving and surfing ,  or sun - orientated activities ,  such as sun bathing .
an item used to contribute ,  in a secondary manner ,  to the wearer's outfit ,  often used to complete an outfit and chosen to specifically complement the wearer's look .
clothing accessories that are primarily carried .
clothing accessories that are primarily worn .
clothing sorted by typically wearer's gender identity ,  expression ,  and / or role in a given societal context .
clothing sorted by typically wearer's male gender identity ,  expression ,  and / or role in a given societal context .
clothing sorted by typically wearer's female gender identity ,  expression ,  and / or role in a given societal context .
clothing ,  as sorted by the age group of the wearer .
clothing designed for use by children .
clothing primarily utilized by adults .
clothing for infants .
accessories worn on the arm .
any device worn over the eyes .
clothing ,  as sorted by primary material or materials .
clothing made of leather .
clothing made of latex .
clothing made of rubber .
clothing made of the plastic polyvinyl chloride  ( pvc )  .
a small bag for the purpose of carrying currency ,  usually coins .
a handled medium - to - large bag used to carry personal items .
a bag ,  often with a strap .
a narrow hard - sided box - shaped bag or case used mainly for carrying papers and equipped with a handle .
cloth - covered frame used for protection against rain .
a small light umbrella used as protection from the sun .
a device used primarily to aid walking ,  provide postural stability or support ,  or assist in maintaining a good posture ,  but some designs also serve as a fashion accessory ,  or are used for self - defense .
footwear made of a flat sole shaped to the contour of the foot ,  connected to an upper portion which may or may not completely cover or wrap around the foot .
small decorative items worn for personal adornment ,  such as brooches ,  rings ,  necklaces ,  earrings ,  pendants ,  bracelets ,  and cufflinks .
jewelry worn in one's hair .
jewelry worn in and / or around one's nose .
jewelry worn on one's hand or hands  ( or one's wrist or wrists )  .
jewelry worn around one's neck .
jewelry worn around one's arm .
jewelry worn around one's finger or fingers .
jewelry worn upon one's head .
an article of jewelry that is worn around the neck ,  most often made of a string of precious metal ,  pearls ,  gems ,  beads or shells ,  and sometimes having a pendant attached .
a necklace 35 centimetres  ( 14 in )  to 41 centimetres  ( 16 in )  long that sits high on the neck .
a princess necklace is 45 centimetres  ( 18 in )  to 50 centimetres  ( 20 in )  long ,  longer than a choker ,  but shorter than a matinee .
a matinee length necklace is 56 centimetres  ( 22 in )  to 58 centimetres  ( 23 in )  long — typically a single strand that rests at the top of the cleavage .
an opera necklace is 75 centimetres  ( 30 in )  to 90 centimetres  ( 35 in )  long and sits at the breastbone .
a rope necklace is any necklace longer than opera length .
a lariat is a very ,  very long variation on the rope ,  without a clasp ,  often worn draped multiple times around the neck ;  the ends can be crossed over ,  looped ,  or knotted in various ways .
a long piece of cloth ,  worn ,  usually by men ,  for decorative purposes around the neck ,  resting under the shirt collar and knotted at the throat .
a circular band worn as a type of ornamental jewelry around the finger .
a ring indicating that the person wearing it is engaged to be married .
a finger ring that indicates that its wearer is married .
a ring worn as a sign of chastity .
a ring given as a gift to a romantic partner to signify a commitment to a monogamous relationship ,  often as a precursor to an engagement ring .
jewelry worn upon one's toe or toes .
a ring made out of metals and non - metals worn on any of the toes .
a ring comprising a band of precious metal  ( usually gold )  set with a continuous line of identically cut gemstones  ( usually diamonds )  to symbolize neverending love ,  usually given by a spouse to their wife on the occasion of a significant anniversary .
an article of jewelry that is worn around the wrist .
a piece of material worn around the arm over the sleeve or other clothing if present .
a decorative bracelet given by one person to another as a symbol of friendship .
a garment covering the whole hand .
a head covering which is worn for various reasons ,  including protection against weather conditions ,  ceremonial reasons such as university graduation ,  religious reasons ,  safety ,  or as a fashion accessory .
a cloth garment for the upper body  ( from the neck to the waist )  .
an article of clothing ,  usually worn by women and girls ,  that hangs from the waist and covers the lower part of the body .
a loose - fitting upper garment that is typically gathered at the waist or hips  ( by tight hem ,  pleats ,  parter ,  or belt )  so that it hangs loosely  ( "blouses" )  over the wearer's body .
headwear usually tied under the chin and having a front brim .
a head covering made from human hair ,  animal hair ,  or synthetic fiber .
a prosthesis used to restore or improve a person's appearance ,  as opposed to purely functionality .
a traditional symbolic form of headwear ,  not hat ,  worn by a monarch or by a deity ,  for whom the crown traditionally represents power ,  legitimacy ,  victory ,  triumph ,  honor ,  and glory ,  as well as immortality ,  righteousness ,  and resurrection .
an ornamental headband worn by monarchs and others as a badge of royalty .
a jeweled ,  ornamental crown worn during formal occasions .
jewelry worn in ,  around ,  or upon one's ear or ears .
a piece of jewelry attached to the ear via a piercing in the earlobe or another external part of the ear  ( except in the case of clip earrings ,  which clip onto the lobe )  .
liquids that are suitable for drinking .
a drink that contains ethanol ,  a type of alcohol produced by fermentation of grains ,  fruits ,  or other sources of sugar .
drinks that do not contain alcohol .
a drink that contains caffeine ,  a stimulant that is legal and popular in most developed countries .
a brewed drink prepared from roasted coffee beans ,  the seeds of berries from certain coffea species .
a small restaurant of any genre ,  sometimes synonymous with coffee shop ,  depending on the country .
an establishment that primarily serves coffee ,  related coffee drinks  ( latte ,  cappuccino ,  espresso )  ,  and – depending on country – other drinks including alcoholic .
any collection of items needed for a specific purpose .
a kit used for clinical sampling and / or specimen collection .
a kit used primarily for the collection of forensic evidence .
a package of items used by medical personnel for gathering and preserving physical evidence following an allegation of sexual assault .
a kit used primarily for the collection of sexual assault - related forensic evidence after the subject's death .
a form - fitting undergarment designed to support or cover the wearer's breasts .
an item ,  often a small garment ,  that covers its user's genitals .
a narrow piece of fabric ,  leather ,  or satin that covers or holds the genitals ,  passes between the buttocks ,  and is attached to a waistband around the hips .
a piece of fabric ,  usually augmented by an elastic such as a rubber band ,  that is designed to hide the penis and testicles .
a type of underwear that allows the wearer to defecate or urinate without the use of a toilet ,  by absorbing or containing waste products to prevent soiling of outer clothing or the external environment .
a diaper made to be worn by a person with a body larger than that of an infant or toddler .
typically a women's two - piece swimsuit featuring two triangles of fabric on top ,  similar to a bra and covering the woman's breasts ,  and two triangles of fabric on the bottom ,  the front covering the pelvis but exposing the navel ,  and the back covering the buttocks .
a specialized brassiere that provides additional support to women who are lactating and permits comfortable breastfeeding without the need to remove the bra .
a bra that provides support to a person's breasts during physical exercise .
a lightweight brassiere designed for person's developing breasts or for person's with smaller breasts .
a brassiere that utilizes a thin ,  semi - circular strip of rigid material fitted inside the brassiere fabric .
an undergarment designed to impermanently alter the wearer's body shape ,  to achieve what some view as a more fashionable figure . .
undergarment shapewear disincluding brassieres ,  but including corsets ,  girdles ,  and other types of such clothing .
a garment worn to hold and train the torso into a desired shape ,  traditionally a smaller waist or larger bottom ,  for aesthetic or medical purposes  ( either for the duration of wearing it or with a more lasting effect )  ,  or support the breasts .
a corset used for activities related to bondage or other aspects of bdsm .
clothing related to any of various sexual fetishes or kinks or designed to appeal to such practices .
underwear or nightclothes ,  especially when lacy or designed to be seductive .
a vibrator designed to externally stimulate a person's clitoris for sexual pleasure and orgasm .
a clitoral vibrator which needs to be held while functioning .
a clitoral vibrator which does not require being held while in use .
a sex toy that is designed to be inserted into the rectum for sexual pleasure .
a sex toy consisting of multiple spheres or balls attached together in series which are continuously inserted through the anus into the rectum and then removed with varying speeds depending on the desired effect  ( commonly at orgasm to enhance climax )  .
a smooth curved metal bar ,  often with a metal ball on one end and a ring on the other ,  used for insertion into the human anus for erotic purposes .
a sex toy ,  often explicitly phallic in appearance ,  intended for sexual penetration or other sexual activity during masturbation or with sex partners .
a dildo designed to be worn ,  usually with a harness ,  during sexual activity .
a device primarily used in conjunction with some portion of genitourinary system .
a formerly - popular theory that organisms develop from miniature versions of themselves .
a structure found in the nucleus of human cells that is comprised of a strand of linearized double - stranded dna plus proteins that package the dna in a condensed coil form and regulate chromosomal function .
sex chromosomes as they occur in humans .
the x chromosome as it occurs in humans .
the y chromosome as it occurs in humans .
genes carried by sex chromosomes .
genes linked to the x chromosome .
genes linked to the y chromosome .
genes found in eukaryotic organisms .
genes found in animals .
genes found in mammals .
genes found in vertebrates .
genes found in primates .
genes found in humans .
a scale that uses only categories ,  with no inherent order .
a scale that uses ordered numbers where the difference between successive designations may not be constant .
a scale that uses ordered numbers with a constant difference but with no natural zero and where difference makes sense but ratios do not .
a scale that uses ordered numbers with a constant difference and which has a natural zero .
a scale ,  particular in the context of health care ,  designed to evaluate or estimate some quality or ability of someone or something .
scales used to describe or assess medical conditions .
a scale designed to assess some aspect of behavior ,  either on an individual level or a group level .
scales used to assess some aspect of a person's development ;  physical ,  social ,  sexual ,  etc .
a scale which aims to assess one's sexual orientation or some aspect of one's sexual orientation .
scales used to describe or assess psychiatric conditions and symptoms .
a numerical scale used to compare variables with one another or with some reference number ;  a number used to select an element of a list ,  vector ,  array or other sequence .
a kind of scale which elucidates aspects of a person's personality .
a scale which assesses attitude about or toward someone or something .
a scale which assesses prejudice against a particular group or groups .
a scale which assesses prejudice against lgbtqia +  persons .
a scale which assesses homophobia .
a scale which assesses internalized homophobia .
a scale which assesses biphobia .
a scale which assesses lesbophobia .
a scale which assesses internalized lesbophobia .
an index ,  particular in the context of health care ,  designed to evaluate or estimate some quality or ability of someone or something .
an index which aims to assess one's sexual orientation or some aspect of one's sexual orientation .
an index designed to assess some aspect of behavior ,  either on an individual level or a group level .
a kind of index which elucidates aspects of a person's personality .
an index which assesses attitude about or toward someone or something .
an index which assesses prejudice against a particular group or groups .
an index which assesses prejudice against lgbtqia +  persons .
an index which assesses lesbophobia .
an index which assesses homophobia .
an index which assesses transphobia .
an index which assesses biphobia .
a scale which assesses transphobia .
a list of business assets or a list of traits ,  attitudes ,  and / or interests ,  etc .
a list of items required or things to be done or considered .
an inventory which assesses someone or something in some capacity .
an inventory which assesses some aspect or aspects of behavior .
an inventory which assesses attitude about or toward someone or something .
a kind of questionnaire which elucidates aspects of a person's personality .
an inventory which assesses prejudice against a particular group or groups .
an inventory which assesses prejudice against lgbtqia +  persons .
an inventory which assesses homophobia .
an inventory which assesses internalized homophobia .
a scale which aims to assess some aspect of one's identity .
a scale which aims to assess one's gender identity or some aspect of one's gender .
an index which aims to assess some aspect of one's identity .
an index which aims to assess one's gender identity or some aspect of one's gender .
a scale which assesses attitude about one's body .
a questionnaire ,  particular in the context of health care ,  designed to evaluate or estimate some quality or ability of someone or something .
a questionnaire which aims to assess some aspect of one's identity .
a questionnaire which aims to assess one's gender identity or some aspect of one's gender .
a tanner stage characterized by a complete lack of glandular tissue ;  the areola follows the skin contours of the chest  ( typically age 10 and younger )  .
a tanner stage characterized by the formation of the breast bud ,  with a small area of surrounding glandular tissue and a widening of the areola  ( typically age 10 to 11 .5 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by an elevation of the breast and extension beyond the borders of the areola ,  which continue to widen but remain in contour with surrounding breast  ( typically between age 11 .5 and 13 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by increased breast sizing and elevation during which the areola and papilla form a secondary mound projecting from the countour of the surrounding breast  ( typically ages 13 to 15 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by the breast reaching its final adult size during which the areola returns to contour of the surrounding breast with a projecting central papilla  ( typically age 15 +  )  .
a tanner stage characterized by testicular volume less than 1 .5 ml accompanied by a relatively small penis  ( typically age 9 and younger )  .
a tanner stage characterized by a testicular volume between 1 .6 and 6 ml accompanied by the scrotal skin reddening and enlarging ;  the penis length remains unchanged  ( typically ages 9 to 11 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by a testicular volume between 6 and 12 ml during which the scrotum enlarges further and the penis begins to length  ( between ages 11 and 12 .5 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by a testicular volume between 12 and 20 ml during which the scrotum enlarges further and darkens and the penis increases in length  ( between ages 12 .5 and 14 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by a testicular volume greater than 20 ml during which the scrotum and penis reach their adult sizes  ( typically age 14 +  )  .
a marker for when handedness of an organism is not known .
any part of an organism .
a structure of the body which has had its morphology altered in some way .
a body structure which has undergone some process of alteration which is nonnormative or otherwise considered abnormal .
a localized pathological or traumatic structural change ,  damage ,  deformity ,  or discontinuity of tissue ,  organ ,  or body part .
a benign or malignant pathologic structure in any part of the body ,  resulting from a neoplastic accumulation of cells ,  inflammatory cells ,  or cystic changes .
a mass of cells which is proliferative in nature .
a new ,  uncontrolled cell growth outside of typical physiologic control .
a benign or malignant pathologic structure in any part of the body ,  resulting from a neoplastic accumulation of cells .
the alteration of the growth process of an organism or something else .
a grouping of individual biological cells .
a population of cells following a period of cell population proliferation .
an abnormal and excessive growth of tissue which is uncoordinated with that of surrounding tissue and persists growing abnormally even if its original trigger is removed .
a term that refers to the classification of a neoplastic process according to the anatomic site that is involved .
kaposi's sarcoma related to aids .
neoplasms organized by their status in regard to their malignancy .
a neoplasm that is non - cancerous .
refusal to admit the truth or reality of a situation or experience .
an essentially irrational action that withholds the validation of a historical experience or event ,  when a person or movement refuses to accept an empirically verifiable reality .
denial of the scientific consensus .
a distortion of the historical record .
the belief ,  contradicted by conclusive evidence ,  that human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  does not cause acquired immune deficiency syndrome  ( aids )  .
the act of denying the genocide of jews in the holocaust during world war ii .
an anxiety disorder in which a person who is normally capable of speech cannot speak in specific situations or to specific people .
health services utilized in order to prevent the spread of or otherwise prevent infectious disease .
health services which aim to prevent hiv infection or the onset of aids .
selective mutism as a result of gender dysphoria .
a therapeutic procedure that either destroys or inhibits the growth of microbes  ( such as bacteria ,  fungi ,  or protozoans )  .
a term used primarily ,  but not exclusively ,  in the united states to describe any community not considered white .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of retroviral diseases  ( diseases caused by members of the family retroviridae )  .
prejudice based on one's disease status .
an overwhelming ,  irrational ,  and persistent fear of contracting acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
a child who has hiv .
a heterosexual person who has hiv .
a gay person who has hiv .
a man who has hiv .
a woman who has hiv .
sudden increase in the incidence of a disease .
sudden outbreaks of a disease in a country or region not previously recognized in that area ,  or a rapid increase in the number of new cases of a previous existing endemic disease .
epidemics of infectious disease that have spread to many countries ,  often more than one continent ,  and usually affecting a large number of people .
a person who is associated with aids and / or its viral agent ,  hiv .
a person who is related to ,  or otherwise or belongs to the same family as ,  a person who has hiv .
a parent of a person who has hiv .
a child of a person who has hiv .
a gay man who has hiv .
a bisexual person who has hiv .
a bisexual man who has hiv .
persons organized primarily by their age and / or age group .
a person who is considered older .
an older person who has hiv .
a young person who has hiv .
bedding is the removable and washable portion of a human sleeping environment .
a fabric covering spread usually for a bed .
a multi - layered textile ,  traditionally composed of three layers of fiber: a woven cloth top ,  a layer of batting or wadding ,  and a woven back ,  combined using the technique of quilting ,  the process of sewing the three layers together .
a quilt which acts to commemorate or memorialize something or someone .
laws related to the rights of intersex persons .
gay masculinity as observed within the bear community .
an inventory which assesses prejudice against persons based on gender .
an inventory which assesses sexism in some capacity .
a day dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain health cause and / or condition .
individual phases of the human sexual response cycle .
the first stage of the human sexual response cycle ,  which occurs as a result of physical or mental erotic stimuli ,  such as kissing ,  making out ,  or viewing erotic images ,  that leads to sexual arousal .
the conclusion of the plateau phase of the sexual response cycle .
the period of sexual excitement prior to orgasm .
the phase of the human sexual response cycle which occurs after orgasm and allows the muscles to relax ,  blood pressure to drop and the body to slow down from its excited state .
orgasm originating from the stimulation of the penis .
orgasm originating from the stimulation of the prostate .
orgasm originating from the stimulation of the clitoris .
individual phases of the sexual response cycle .
any of various models of physiological responses to sexual stimulation which take the form of a cycle .
a four - stage model of physiological responses to sexual stimulation ,  which ,  in order of their occurrence ,  are the excitement -  ,  plateau -  ,  orgasmic -  ,  and resolution phases .
any sort of orgasm or orgasmic process considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
an orgasm with an intensity or high occurrence considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
orgasm which is unaccompanied by ejaculation ;  particularly ,  penile orgasm not accompanied by sperm ejaculation .
an orgasm which occurs during coitus .
a condition in which orgasm takes a prolonged period of time typically considered unnormal or unhealthy .
a condition in which orgasm is painful .
an orgasm which is impeded or which has a low occurrence considered unhealthy or otherwise nonnormative .
an orgasm which occurs as part of a genital reflex and is not under conscious control .
orgasm originating from the stimulation of the uterus .
a consensual bdsm sexual play whereby a person consents to be forced to orgasm despite their attempts to delay or not to orgasm .
when a person mimes or otherwise pretends to have had orgasm without having actually experienced one .
an orgasm that occurs during childbirth .
a theoretical framework which posits that sexism has two sub - components: "hostile sexism" and "benevolent sexism" .
hostile sexism reflects overtly negative evaluations and stereotypes about a gender  ( e .g . ,  the ideas that women are incompetent and inferior to men )  .
benevolent sexism represents evaluations of gender that may appear subjectively positive  ( subjective to the person who is evaluating )  ,  but are actually damaging to people and gender equality more broadly  ( e .g . ,  the ideas that women need to be protected by men )  .
self - aware sexism that is deemed acceptable given that its perpetrators are conscious of the inherent sexism and objectification of women in whatever action or statement is being carried out by them .
the assumption that gender differences perceived in character and behavior are caused by biological differences in brains .
a scale which assesses prejudice against persons based on gender .
a scale which assesses sexism in some capacity .
the age at which one's voice drops ,  usually coinciding with the processes of puberty .
a human life stage that begins at twelve years of age and continues until twenty - one complete years of age ,  generally marked by the beginning of puberty and lasting to the beginning of adulthood .
a human life stage that begins at birth and continues until twelve complete months of age .
the earliest gonadal changes of puberty ,  when  ( in response to pituitary gonadotropins )  ,  the ovaries and the testes begin to grow and increase the production of the sex steroids ,  especially estradiol and testosterone .
occurrence of the first menstrual period before the usual or expected age .
occurrence of the first menstrual period before the lower limit of the normal age range for the reference population ,  without other signs of puberty .
the first appearance of pubic hair in a child .
the onset of growth of pubic hair at an earlier age than normal .
occurrence of first sexual intercourse .
the age at which the first instance of sexual intercourse occurred .
the first sperm ejaculation .
the circumstance or condition that results in the death of a living being .
the act of killing oneself .
the killing of one person by another .
a native american tribe .also known as the teton sioux .
a native american tribe and first nations band government in north america .
a first nations / native american people originally from the northern great plains of north america .
the autonym for a group of culturally related indigenous peoples in what are now canada and the united states .
a native american people of the great plains ,  upper mississippi river ,  and western great lakes region .
a first nations band government in ontario ,  manitoba ,  saskatchewan ,  alberta and british columbia ,  canada .
one of the major divisions of the saulteaux ,  found primarily in eastern and southern manitoba ,  extending west into southern saskatchewan .
a signal for an action ,  a pattern of stimuli indicating a particular response .
a verbal or non - verbal hint or series of stimuli which guide social interactions .
a trait or feature one uses in order to attempt to identify a person's gender or sex .
a non - profit organization which exists for the promotion of social welfare .
organizations that use various forms of advocacy in order to influence public opinion and ultimately policy .
a group which advocates for lgbtqia +  persons .
an organization which publishes or reviews some form of media ,  typically newsmedia .
organizations which analyze media in some capacity ,  such as for fact checking .
organizations which monitor media for particular attributes or overly suitability for a general audience or for specific audiences .
professional associations formed of and for pediatricians .
a medical institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
a pediatric medical institution of secondary education ,  higher learning ,  research ,  or honorary membership .
a hate group is a social group that advocates and practices hatred ,  hostility ,  or violence towards members of a race ,  ethnicity ,  nation ,  religion ,  gender ,  gender identity ,  sexual orientation or any other designated sector of society .
hate groups who direct their hatred primarily against lgbtqia +  people .
hate groups who direct their hatred primarily against gay people ,  particularly gay men .
hate groups who direct their hatred primarily against lesbians .
hate groups who direct their hatred primarily against bisexual people .
hate groups who direct their hatred primarily against transgender people .
a group that advocates for transgender people .
social groups as represented on the internet ,  usually on the world wide web .
an internet group on the social media platform facebook .
facebook groups related to the lgbtqia +  community or any of its various subcommunities .
facebook groups related to the transgender community or any of its various subcommunities .
efforts and techniques utilized in order to prevent sexual assault and rape from occurring .
a statement intended to demean and brutalize another ,  or the use of cruel and derogatory language on the basis of real or alleged membership in a social group .
hate speech which takes place online  ( e .g .
nonverbal communication in which space plays a role ;  also includes behavior influenced by population density  ( i .e .
nonverbal communication in which body movement plays a large role .
nonverbal communication in which interactions happen via the sense of touch .
nonverbal communication in which time plays a role .
types of meta - communication which may modify meaning ,  give nuanced meaning ,  or convey emotion such as using prosody ,  pitch ,  volume ,  and intonation .
the touch or pressing of one's lips against another person or an object .
a kiss which indicates romantic and / or sexual feeling .
different types of kissing ,  categorized by the social function the kiss fulfills .
different types of kisses organized by the anatomical structure received by the lips  ( i .e .
a kiss in which a person's lips contact another person's cheek .
a kiss in which a person's lips contact another person's nose .
a kiss in which a person's lips contact another person's lips .
a kiss in which a person's lips contact another person's hand or hands .
an act ,  usually of endearment ,  in which two or more people put their arms around the neck ,  back ,  or waist of one another and hold each other closely .
a hug involving more than two persons .
a kiss in which a person's lips contact another person's forehead .
a kiss which is part of some ritual ,  religious or otherwise .
a kiss indicating peace or transmitting a feeling of peace as part of a ritual .
a kiss given out of reverence or respect to another person or thing .
an amorous kiss in which the participants' tongues extend to touch each other's lips or tongue .
a kiss in which there is tongue contact .
the act of touching a part of a body in a way that causes involuntary twitching movements or laughter .
a kiss used as a salutation between friends or acquaintances .
gesturing is a form of nonverbal communication in which visible bodily actions communicate particular messages ,  either in place of speech or together and in parallel with spoken words .
a month dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain cause and / or condition .
a day dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain civil cause and / or condition .
a group which advocates against sexual assault .
an anatomical point that is part of the vagina .
a theoretical erogenous area of the vagina that ,  when stimulated ,  may lead to strong sexual arousal ,  powerful orgasms and potential vaginal ejaculation .
a person publicly seen as a man and treated as a man regardless of their actual gender .
a theoretical erogenous zone located in the area surrounding the opening of the urethra  ( starting in the anterior vaginal wall )  which is surrounded by erectile tissue that is activated during sexual arousal .
an area of the human body that has heightened sensitivity ,  the stimulation of which may generate a sexual response ,  such as relaxation ,  the production of sexual fantasies ,  sexual arousal and orgasm .
a zone associated with sexual response ,  including the lips and nipples in addition to areas of the genitals ,  notably the foreskin and corona of the glans penis ,  clitoris and rest of the vulva ,  and perianal skin .
a zone in which the skin is similar to normal - haired skin and has the normal high density of nerves and hair follicles .
an erogenous zone of the vagina .
a theoretical erogenous zone of the vagina that when stimulated can lead to rapid vaginal lubrication and arousal ,  sometimes without any other form of stimulation ,  with continued stimulation resulting in an intense orgasm .
a theoretical erogenous zone of the vagina located in the posterior fornix .
vocalizations produced during sexual activity .
a physiological response to sexual stimulation .
a theoretical phenomena defined as a longer and more intense version of a classical orgasm with its own unique characteristics .
a vibrating and rotating sex toy ,  usually made in the shape of a phallus with a clitoral stimulator attached to the shaft .
a type of vibrator that is egg or bullet shaped ,  designed to be more discreet in nature .
a social network of individuals who interact through any of various virtual means ,  such as social media .
a virtual community whose members interact with each other primarily via the internet .
an online discussion site where people can hold conversations in the form of posted messages .
an internet forum formed around or included members of a particular subcultural group or groups .
internet forums pertaining to or otherwise related to lgbtqia +  persons .
fairness of treatment concerning people of different genders based on their different needs .
relations between different genders ,  often tied to cultural or social attitudes .
relations between gay men and gay women  ( lesbians )  ,  often tied to cultural or social attitudes .
a social ,  political and cultural movement which arose from the eroding of the cultural ,  biological ,  psychological ,  and social role of gender ,  and an argument for why the erosion of binary gender will be liberatory .
any of various changes to a person's voice ,  including it dropping in pitch ,  being lost ,  or becoming different in tone .
any of various changes in voice during adolescence ,  usually involving a deepening of the voice in terms of pitch .
a room or small building with toilets  ( or urinals )  and sinks that does not belong to a particular household .
public toilets that are not separated by gender or sex .
public toilets designed for use by or targeted at men .
public toilets designed for use by or targeted at women .
a store where books are bought and / or sold .
a bookstore that buys and / or sells books of particular interest to or otherwise pertaining to members of a given subculture .
bookstores that specialize in serving lgbtqia +  readers .
a group that advocates for gender - variant persons .
a stratum of people with similar position and prestige ;  includes social stratification .
a measurement of social value based in beliefs about social worth .
an economic and sociological combined total measure of a person's work experience and of an individual's or family's economic and social position in relation to others ,  based on household income ,  earners' education ,  and occupation are examined ,  as well as combined income ,  whereas for an individual's ses only their own attributes are assessed .
the social class composed of people who hold the highest social status ,  usually are the wealthiest members of society ,  and wield the greatest political power .
a class of people in the middle of a social hierarchy .
lower class are those employed in low - paying wage jobs with very little economic security .
a social class defined as comprising those persons engaged in waged or salaried labor ,  especially in manual - labor occupations and industrial work .
the social group constituted by higher status members of the middle class .
a subdivision of the greater middle class .
the social class of a given society that decides upon and sets that society's political agenda .
the segment of the population that occupies the lowest possible position in a class hierarchy ,  below the core body of the working class .
a relationship status indicating that a person is in a relationship .
a relationship status indicating that a person's relationship is difficult to explain or otherwise complicated based on societal norms .
a relationship status indicating that a person is in an open relationship .
a relationship status indicating that a person is in a civil union .
a relationship status indicating that a person is in a domestic partnership .
an ethnic group that is native to the japanese archipelago and modern country of japan ,  where they constitute 98 .5% of the total population .
native americans in the southwestern united states who share common agricultural ,  material and religious practices .
one of the pueblo peoples .
a native american pueblo approximately 60 miles  ( 97 km )  west of albuquerque ,  new mexico in the united states .
any of the various indigenous peoples of the aleutian islands .
an indigenous american ethnic group who primarily inhabit land in the eastern woodlands region ,  commonly known as the northern united states and southern canada .
an anishinaabe people of canada and the northern midwestern united states .
a first nation in the canadian provinces of ontario and manitoba ,  residing in a narrow band extending from the missinaibi river region in northeastern ontario at the east to lake winnipeg at the west .
one of the most populous and widespread north american indigenous language groups .
a tribe of native americans historically living on the plains of colorado and wyoming .
any of various indigenous peoples in north america which primarily speak languages belonging to the iroquoian language family .
one of the indigenous peoples of the southeastern woodlands of the united states .
a cherokee person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a cherokee person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
one of the indigenous peoples of the great plains that speak a language that is a member of the algonquian language family .
any of various indigenous american peoples who speak languages that are members of the muskogean language family .
an indigenous people of the southeastern woodlands .
an exercise to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles ,  in which the levator muscles are squeezed and held ,  then released ,  for a number of repetitions .
criminal behavior which involves vehicles ,  typically cars ,  directly .
mass killing ,  injury and / or damage to property deliberately committed with a vehicle .
race riots taking place primarily in the united states .
race riots primarily involving white americans .
race riots primarily involving black americans .
a substance which is part of a device or is otherwise required for a device or its various subprocesses .
a substance ,  usually organic ,  introduced to reduce friction between surfaces in mutual contact ,  which ultimately reduces the heat generated when the surfaces move .
specialized lubricants used during human sexual acts such as intercourse and masturbation to reduce friction to or between the penis and vagina ,  anus or other body parts or applied to sex toys to reduce friction or to ease penetration .
lubricants used to reduce vaginal dryness and pain during intercourse ,  and by couples trying to conceive .
lubricants that are safe for anal sex ,  especially products that are specifically marketed or designed to enhance enjoyment of anal sex .
an emission produced by the vagina .
normal or abnormal secretions from the vagina .
a naturally produced fluid that lubricates a person's vagina .
a fluid produced from minute microscopic protrusions of the mucosal surface of the foreskin and that living cells constantly grow towards the surface ,  undergo fatty degeneration ,  separate off ,  and form smegma .
the secretion of the apocrine glands of the clitoris ,  in combination with desquamating epithelial cells .
an emission or expulsion of air from the vagina .
a single installment of a television series .
a television episode about or otherwise related to a particular subculture or subcultures .
television episodes pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
television episodes pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
television episodes pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
television episodes pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
television episodes pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
television episodes pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
television episodes pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or transgender culture .
a television episode in which a seemingly heterosexual character engages in a kiss with a possibly lesbian or bisexual character .
books which explain how to perform certain sexual practices .
a model which psychological components or that is otherwise used in psychology to explain particular processes .
any of various models which attempt to describe identity development or other aspects of identity .
any of various models which attempt to describe sexual identity development or other aspects of sexual identity .
any of various models which attempt to describe gender identity development or other aspects of gender identity .
the state of having no sexual interests in other persons ,  but not necessarily devoid of all sexual behavior .
loss of interest in sexual activity or behavior or a particular kind of sexual activity or behavior .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to a particular ethnic group .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to japanese persons or persons with japanese heritage .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to sexuality .
sexual arousal by breastfeeding on a person's breast .
urination which is uncontrolled .
a medical symptom primarily affecting the urinary system .
symptoms that result from pathologic processes affecting the urinary bladder and / or urethra .
involuntary passage of urine outside the body .
urinary leakage that occurs during either penetration or orgasm and can occur with a sexual partner or with masturbation .
urinary incontinence at the moment of sexual climax  ( orgasm )  .
a device which records data about a patient .
a patient data recorder which produces graphical output .
a device utilized for plethysmography .
a device utilized for photoplethysmography .
a small clear acrylic device that contains a light source ,  and a light detector .
a device utilized for vaginal photoplethysmography .
a device utilized for penile photoplethysmography .
a measurement of any physiological phenomenon .
recording of change in the size of a part as modified by the circulation in it .
plethysmographic determination in which the intensity of light reflected from the skin surface and the red cells below is measured to determine the blood volume of the respective area .
measurement of clitoral blood volume  ( cbv )  using a direct current signal .
a technique using light to measure the amount of blood in the walls of the vagina .
a measurement of bloodflow to the penis which involves a device which emits and detects that is mounted on the patient's penis .
measurement of bloodflow to the penis ,  typically used as a proxy for measurement of sexual arousal .
a measurement of bloodflow to the penis which involves placing the patient's penis into a container to measure volume .
measurement of bloodflow to the vagina ,  typically used as a proxy for measurement of sexual arousal .
discrimination based on medical diagnoses ,  diseases ,  disorders ,  etc .
discrimination based on hiv status .
human sexual behavior between family members or close relatives .
the mating of plants or non - human animals which are closely related genetically .
incestuous behavior which is abusive in nature ,  i .e .
incestuous behavior between two siblings .
a form of child sexual abuse in which a prepubescent child is sexually abused by one or more other children or adolescents ,  and in which no adult is directly involved .
incestuous behavior between a parent and a child .
incestuous behavior toward a child which is abusive in nature ,  i .e .
incestuous behavior between an adult and a child .
incestuous behavior between a stepparent and their stepchild .
incestuous behavior which is considered homosexual in nature  ( i .e .
incestuous behavior which is considered heterosexual in nature  ( i .e .
incestuous behavior between two adults .
incestuous behavior between an aunt or uncle  ( gender - neutral word: pibling )  and their niece or nephew  ( gender - neutral word: niefling )  .
incestuous behavior between two cousins .
incestuous behavior between two twins  ( either monozygotic or dizygotic )  .
sexual activity or marriage between persons who were unaware of a family relationship between them which would be considered incestuous .
a genre of pornography involving the depiction of incest  ( sexual activity between relatives )  .
a loosely defined community of lgbtqia +  persons who practice bdsm activities .
a loosely defined community of gay men who practice bdsm activities .
a loosely defined community of lesbians who practice bdsm activities .
a loosely defined community of transgender people who practice bdsm activities .
a practice of dominance and submission ,  where a submissive will give gifts and money to a financial dominant .
flags used by or used to represent members of the sexuality or sexuality - based community .
flags used by or used to represent members of the leather subculture or community .
pornography involving any of various bdsm activities .
pornography involving sexual bondage .
any conditional state involving consciousness .
any condition considered significantly different from a normal waking state .
a category of altered states of consciousness suggested by vaitl  ( 2012 )  as being induced by music ,  meditation ,  or hypnosis .
an abnormal state of wakefulness in which a person is not self - aware and is either altogether unresponsive to external stimuli  ( but nevertheless capable of pursuing and realizing an aim )  or is selectively responsive in following the directions of the person  ( if any )  who has induced the trance .
there are competing theories explaining hypnosis and related phenomena .
any technique or method which purports to lead to an altered state of mind or state of consciousness .
a human condition involving focused attention ,  reduced peripheral awareness ,  and an enhanced capacity to respond to suggestion .
the practice of hypnosis for sexual purposes .
forms of hypnosis practiced as part of recreation ,  including stage hypnosis and erotic hypnosis ,  among other types .
any of various sex toys used for bdsm play .
any of various restraints used in the practice of bdsm .
any of various furniture pieces used in the practice of bdsm .
wide wrist and / or ankle restraints designed for use in bondage situations .
pouch - like coverings used in bdsm play that fasten securely around the wrists ,  holding the hands in closed fists or palms flat .
a piece of bdsm equipment worn for the purposes of bondage .
a body belt utilized in sexual bondage .
a fetishistic hood usually constructed of rubber ,  latex ,  pvc ,  spandex ,  darlexx ,  or leather .
a strip of thin plastic material  ( typically latex )  that adheres only to itself ,  without any adhesive ;  typically intended to be used in erotic bondage .
articles of clothing worn primarily for the purposes of bdsm - related bondage .
a bed specifically designed for bondage and bdsm play .
a person publicly seen as a woman and treated as a woman regardless of their actual gender .
the absence or restriction of the usual external sensory stimuli to which the individual responds .
the selecting and organizing of visual stimuli based on the individual's past experience .
the process whereby auditory stimuli are selected ,  organized ,  and interpreted by the organism .
a dimension of auditory sensation varying with cycles per second of the sound stimulus .
absence or restriction of the usual auditory stimuli to which the individual responds .
absence or restriction of external visual stimuli .
organizations formed for recreational purposes or which advocate for or educate about particular recreational activities .
a recreational organization whose primary activities involve sex or other sexual practices in some form .
educational ,  campaigning ,  and community organizations related to bdsm practices and the bdsm community .
media pertaining especially to bdsm and / or bdsm culture .
film pertaining especially to bdsm and / or bdsm culture .
literature pertaining especially to the practice of bdsm or to the bdsm community .
magazines pertaining especially to bdsm and / or bdsm culture .
magazines pertaining especially to particular fetishes and / or fetish culture .
pornography that exploits children for sexual stimulation .
the intersection of biphobia and misogyny ,  covering negative attitudes directed towards bisexual women .
social movements which aim to criminalize ,  demonize ,  or otherwise discriminate against lgbtqia +  people in society .
individuals and organizations that encourage people to refrain from entering or pursuing same - sex relationships ,  eliminate homosexual desires and to develop heterosexual desires ,  or to enter into a heterosexual relationship .
individuals and organizations that encourage people to desist being transgender ,  encourage detransition medically and socially ,  or otherwise oppose some or all forms of being transgender .
persons who formerly participated in the ex - gay movement in an attempt to change their sexual orientation to heterosexual ,  but who then later went on to publicly state they had a non - heterosexual sexual orientation .
a person who claims to have formerly identified as gay .
an organization which is ,  in some form or another ,  part of the ex - gay movement ;  an organization which encourages persons to refrain from entering or pursuing same - sex relationships ,  to eliminate homosexual desires and to develop heterosexual desires ,  or to enter into a heterosexual relationship .
organizations which promote or practice forms of conversion therapy for lgbtqia +  persons .
the idea that heterosexuality is assumed and enforced by a patriarchal and heteronormative society .
the deliberate attempt to influence attitudes and beliefs for furthering one's cause or damaging an opponent's cause .
propaganda based on queerphobia towards lgbtqia +  people .
propaganda based on homonegativity and homophobia towards homosexual and sometimes other non - heterosexual people .
propaganda based on transphobia towards transgender people .
suicides organized by a particularly victimized group committing such an act .
suicides organized by some categorical typing that isn't by method .
suicides of lgbtqia +  persons ,  particular those related to such a victim's identification as lgbtqia +  and social discrimination based on such status .
suicides as they occur among lgbtqia +  youth .
suicides as they occur among transgender people .
a planned series of media intended to achieve a particular purpose or purposes .
a media campaign that aims to increase public awareness of a particular issue or topic .
a media campaign that aims to increase public awareness of lgbtqia +  civil and human rights issues .
any of various tests involved with the field of sexology or tests related to the inquiries made in sexology .
any of various pseudoscientific tests or proposed hypothetical tests which claim to be able to elucidate whether or not a person is gay .
homicide which constitutes a crime under a particular legal system .
the unlawful killing of another human without justification or valid excuse ,  especially the unlawful killing of another human with malice aforethought .
a common law legal term for homicide considered by law as less culpable than murder .
the homicide of a human being without intent of doing so ,  either expressed or implied .
the killing of a human being in which the offender acted during the heat of passion ,  under circumstances that would cause a reasonable person to become emotionally or mentally disturbed to the point that they can't reasonably control their emotions .
manslaughter which occurs when someone kills ,  without intent ,  in the course of committing an unlawful act .
manslaughter which occurs where death results from serious negligence ,  or ,  in some jurisdictions ,  serious recklessness .
murders organized by degree or severity under various legal systems .
a label used in many states in the united states to describe any intentional murder that is willful and premeditated with malice aforethought .
a label used in many states in the united states to describe any intentional murder with malice aforethought ,  but is not premeditated or planned in advance .
homicides classified by degree of lawfulness or unlawfulness of the act .
homicides organized by the victim or victims characteristics ,  etc .
the homicide of an individual who is a child .
murders organized primarily by the victim or victims involved .
murders of children ;  murder in which a child or children are the primary victims .
murders organized by the number of victims involved .
the act of murdering a number of people ,  typically simultaneously or over a relatively short period of time and in close geographic proximity .
a murder in a sequence of murders which each take place over more than a month and include a significant period of time between them .
homicides categorized by method ,  either of contact of the victim or by the weapon or weapons involved in the homicide itself .
homicide in which the victim and perpetrator met online ,  in some cases having known each other previously only through the internet .
a mass murder in which victims were primarily shot .
a mass murder in which victims were primarily stabbed .
homicide of a gay man in which the person's attitudes toward gay men ultimately resulted in the homicide .
homicide of a lesbian in which the person's attitudes toward lesbians ultimately resulted in the homicide .
homicide of a transgender person in which the person's attitudes toward transgender people ultimately resulted in the homicide .
a prejudice - motivated crime which occurs when a perpetrator targets a victim because of their membership  ( or perceived membership )  in the lgbtqia +  community .
an over - generalized belief about a particular category of people .
conventional ,  formulaic generalizations ,  opinions ,  or images based on the sexual orientations or gender identities of lgbtqia +  people .
stereotypes related to a person's gender .
conventional ,  formulaic generalizations ,  opinions ,  or images concerning men .
conventional ,  formulaic generalizations ,  opinions ,  or images concerning women .
the bias or perceived bias of scholars allowing their beliefs to shape their research and the scientific community .
the bias or perceived bias of journalists and news producers within the mass media in the selection of many events and stories that are reported and how they are covered .
domestic violence by a current or former partner in an intimate relationship against the same - sex partner .
domestic violence by a current or former partner in an intimate relationship against the different - sex partner .
domestic violence by a current or former partner in an intimate gay male relationship against the partner .
domestic violence by a current or former partner in an intimate lesbian relationship against the partner .
a person who has suffered from any of various forms of abuse .
a victim of abuse whose gender is different from that of the abuser .
a victim of abuse whose gender is the same as that of the abuser .
a victim of abuse who is male .
a victim of abuse who is female .
a female victim of abuse whose abuser is female .
a male victim of abuse whose abuser is male .
a female victim of abuse whose abuser is male .
a male victim of abuse whose abuser is female .
a person of color who is bisexual .
a person of color who is gay .
a man of color who is bisexual .
a woman of color who is bisexual .
a latina person who is a lesbian .
a black man who is bisexual .
a black woman who is bisexual .
an afro - american man who is bisexual .
an afro - american woman who is bisexual .
an afro - american man who is gay .
a black person who is gay .
black persons categorized by sexuality or sexual orientation .
a black person who is bisexual .
an afro - american person who is male .
an afro - american person who is female .
a person who entertains others ,  esp .
an afro - american person who is gay .
a lesbian who is afro - american  ( african american )  .
a member of an ethnic minority which is also the member of a sexual minority ;  also ,  the intersection of ethnic and sexual minorities .
a black person who is transgender .
an afro - american person who is transgender .
an older person who is gay .
an older man who is gay .
an older person who is a lesbian .
a person who is assigned male at birth who dresses in a traditionally feminine manner within a given sociocultural context .
a person who is assigned female at birth who dresses in a traditionally masculine manner within a given sociocultural context .
a transgender man who is black .
a person who has studied science ,  especially one who is active in a particular field of investigation .
a scientist who specializes in a social science such as psychology ,  economics ,  or political science .
a scientist dedicated to natural science .
an expert in the field of psychology .
a scientist studying the field of sociology .
someone who studies ,  or is an expert in ,  sex and sexuality .
a scientist trained in the study of chemistry .
a scientist who has specialized knowledge in the field of biology ,  the scientific study of life .
name given to certain performers in american circus sideshow and carnival circuits during the first half of the 20th century .
an entertainer who cross - dresses  for the purposes of entertainment .
a male entertainer who dresses as female for the purposes of entertainment .
a female entertainer who dresses as male for the purposes of entertainment .
a primarily performative cultural identity in many spanish and portuguese speaking countries in central and south america .
an act in which an entertainer who dresses stereotypically ,  exaggeratedly ,  or otherwise provocatively as a person of a different gender  ( usually men as women or women as men ,  as perceived in a particular culture and time period )  ,  often accompanied by song in some form or fashion .
an act in which a female entertainer who dresses stereotypically ,  exaggeratedly ,  or otherwise provocatively as a man ,  often accompanied by song in some form or fashion .
an act in which a male entertainer who dresses stereotypically ,  exaggeratedly ,  or otherwise provocatively as a woman ,  often accompanied by song in some form or fashion .
a person who uses written words in various styles and techniques to communicate their ideas .
an author of novels .
one whose occupation is journalism ,  originally only writing in the printed press .
journalists who write for newspapers .
columnists who write for newspapers .
a scientist who studies genes .
a person who abstains from marriage and / or sexual relations  ( depending on the context )  .
a person who experiences sexual frustration and who may label themself as an "incel"  ( short for involuntary celibate )  .
a person who is voluntarily unmarried ,  sexually abstinent ,  or both ,  usually for religious reasons .
a surgeon who is concerned with conditions involving the musculoskeletal system ,  i .e .
one who studies ,  teaches ,  writes on ,  or does research on anatomy and anatomical structures .
a person who has some form of religious beliefs or religiosity .
a person or persons acknowledged as a leader of or within a particular religion .
a person of a religious faith who is ordained ,  licensed ,  or set apart in some way for the work of clergy within an organization or organizations .
a religious member of the clergy who is trained to perform services or sacrifices at a church or temple .
a person distinguished for their educational work ,  a teacher .
a person engaged in an activity related to creating art ,  practicing the arts ,  or demonstrating an art .
journalists organized by their primary medium of authorship .
a regular writer of a column in any medium .
columnists organized by the primary subject they write about .
columnists organized by their primary medium of authorship .
a writer of a regular column  about sexual intercourse or other sexual activities .
educators organized by the subject they educate persons about .
a person who is known for lecturing about ,  writing about ,  or otherwise contributing to sex education .
a person who practices one or more of the performing arts .
a person who practices one or more of the visual arts .
a person who portrays a character in a performance .
a composer ,  conductor ,  or performer of music ;  specifically ,  a person who sings and / or plays a musical instrument as a hobby ,  an occupation ,  or a profession .
a person who secretly watches and examines the actions of other individuals or organizations and gathers information on them  ( usually to gain an advantage )  .
persons who have served in the armed forces in some capacity ;  members of a state's armed forces .
a person who has served and is no longer serving in armed forces .
a person who fights as part of an army .
a person  ( often a woman )  of social prominence ,  considered to be an influential figure .
a person who supplies sex work  ( some form of sexual services )  in exchange for compensation .
a sex worker who has a male gender identity ;  a man who is engaged in sex work .
a sex worker who has a female gender identity ;  a woman who is engaged in sex work .
sex workers who are lgbtqia +  .
persons who are lgbtqia +  .
a person who has acquired the knowledge of computer science ,  the study of the theoretical foundations of information and computation and their application .
people organized by the social class they belong to ,  or are most associated with .
a person who belongs to a given society's upper class .
one of the aristocracy ,  nobility ,  or people of rank in a community ;  one of a ruling class .
a person belonging to royalty .
lgbtqia +  persons belonging to royalty .
an agent for sex workers who collects part of their earnings .
one engaged in politics ,  especially an elected or appointed government official .
politicians who have any of various lgbtqia +  identities .
male politicians who are gay .
female politicians who are gay .
lgbtqia +  persons organized by occupation .
a person who writes poems .
a person who pilots aircraft .
a person who makes photographs .
persons working in the provision of health services ,  whether as individual practitioners or employees of health institutions and programs ,  whether or not professionally trained ,  and whether or not subject to public regulation .
pharmacists with clinical training to provide patient - centered evidence - based pharmaceutical care .
a person belonging to a social class normally ranked immediately under royalty and found in some societies that have a formal aristocracy .
a rule of a barony ;  otherwise ,  a member of the lowest rank of english nobility  ( equivalent to a scottish lord )  .
a hereditary title ,  below a peerage and senior to most knighthoods ,  entitling the bearer to the titular prefix "sir"  ( for men )  or "dame"  ( for women )  which is used in conjunction with the holder's christian name .
a noble person holding a rank intermediate between a duke and a baron .
the rule of a duchy or otherwise a high title of nobility ,  the holder of a dukedom .
a british or irish nobleman next in rank above a viscount and below a marquess ;  equivalent to a european count .
a title of nobility for a person ranking beneath a duke and above an earl .
a model is a representation of some thing .
one who studies linguistics .
one who studies or researches history .
professionals who plan ,  organize and direct health education programs for the individual ,  groups and the community .
a person  ( or ,  rarely a thing )  that is identified by members of a culture as representative of that culture .
a person who is an icon within the lgbtqia +  community .
a person who is an icon within the gay male community .
a person who is an icon within the lesbian community .
a person who is an icon within the transgender community .
a person who is an icon within the bisexual community .
a person who belongs to or otherwise is a member of an organization .
a person who is a member of a secret society .
a member of the free and accepted masons  ( sometimes entitled ancient free and accepted masons )  ,  an international fraternal and charitable organization .
a person in a narrative work of art  ( such as a novel ,  play ,  television series ,  or movie )  .
persons in fictional works  ( film ,  television ,  books ,  etc . ) 
a fictional person who is asexual .
a fictional person who is bisexual .
a fictional person who is pansexual .
a fictional person who is gay .
a fictional person who is transgender .
a fictional man who is gay .
a fictional woman who is lesbian .
a fictional man who is transgender .
a fictional woman who is transgender .
a fictional person who is nonbinary .
a person who makes designs for objects .
someone who designs clothing professionally .
a person who is guilty of a crime ,  notably breaking the law .
one who writes computer programs .
broadly ,  a cook ;  however ,  more commonly used to refer to the head cook of a restaurant or other establishment .
a person who has a high degree of recognition by the general population for his or her success or accomplishments ;  a famous person .
a celebrity who has acquired or developed their fame and notability through the internet .
a person who has been castrated in any of various senses ;  that is ,  they've had some part of their internal or external reproductive organs removed or that those organs have otherwise been rendered unusable  ( such as via chemical castration )  .
a person who actively participates in physical sports ,  especially with great skill ;  a sportsperson .
people categorized by a particular philosophy or philosophies they endorsed ,  originated ,  or were otherwise strongly associated with .
one who believes in or advocates the absence of hierarchy and authority in most forms ,  especially one who works toward the realization of such .
a scholar or expert engaged in or contributing to philosophical inquiry .
a scientist who specializes in the field of physics ,  which encompasses the interactions of matter and energy at all length and time scales in the physical universe .
a transgender man who is latino .
one who creates a cartoon or strip cartoon ;  alternatively ,  one who both writes and illustrates comic books or graphic novels .
a man who is cisgender and gay .
a person who is associated with a crime or crimes directly or indirectly .
a person who is a suspect in a criminal investigation or is otherwise suspected as having committed a crime .
a fictional person who is intersex .
a fictional man who is bisexual .
a fictional woman who is bisexual .
internet personalities or celebrities that have influence over potential buyers as a product of influencer marketing culture ,  primarily through social media .
a bisexual person belonging to royalty .
a gay person belonging to royalty .
a native american people who historically inhabited the central and southern coastal regions of california ,  in portions of what is now san luis obispo ,  santa barbara ,  ventura and los angeles counties ,  extending from morro bay in the north to malibu in the south .
a collective name for linguistically related groups that make up the blackfoot or blackfeet people: the siksika  ( "blackfoot" )  ,  the kainai or kainah  ( "blood" )  ,  and two sections of the piikani  ( piegan blackfeet )  ,  the northern piikani  ( aapátohsipikáni )  and the southern piikani  ( amskapi piikani or pikuni )  .
an algonquian - speaking people from the north american great plains .
members of an indigenous tribe located in montana ,  one of the divisions of the blackfoot peoples .
a group of indigenous or aboriginal peoples of western ,  southwestern ,  and southcentral alaska and the russian far east .
a southern coastal people of alaska natives .
an eskimo people of western and southwestern alaska ranging from southern norton sound southwards along the coast of the bering sea on the yukon - kuskokwim delta  ( including living on nelson and nunivak islands )  and along the northern coast of bristol bay as far east as nushagak bay and the northern alaska peninsula at naknek river and egegik bay .
a yupik eskimo people who reside along the coast of the chukchi peninsula in the far northeast of the russian federation and on st . lawrence island in alaska .
an indigenous people of mexico .
native american pueblo peoples native to the zuni river valley .
a native american tribe who live on the fort yuma indian reservation on the lower colorado river in arizona and california just north of the mexican border .
any of several groups of indigenous people of the pacific northwest in the united states who speak the chinookan languages .
wasco comes from the word wacq!ó ,  meaning "cup" or "small bowl , " the name of a distinctive bowl - shaped rock near the tribe's primary historic village .
the wishram are known as the tlakluit and echeloot .
a siouan - speaking native american people whose historic territory includes parts of wisconsin ,  minnesota ,  iowa ,  and illinois .
native americans of the ute tribe and culture and are among the great basin classification of indigenous people .
any of the southern ute tribes ,  including the muache ,  capote ,  and the weeminuche ,  the latter of which are at ute mountain .
indigenous peoples of the pacific northwest coast of north america .
native american people of the extreme southwestern united states and northwest mexico .
one of the main groups of the kumeyaay ,  extending the southern shores of the san diego river including the laguna mouthains ,  ensenada ,  and tecate .
one of the main groups of the kumeyaay ,  extending the northern shores of the san diego river from escondido to lake henshaw .
any of various indigenous puebloan peoples who speak languages belonging to the tanoan language family .
a group of related tanoan puebloans in new mexico .
a linguistic group of pueblo native americans who speak the tewa language and share the pueblo culture .
any of various indigenous tiwa peoples who speak northern tiwa languages ,  primarily taos and picuris .
any of various indigenous tiwa peoples who speak northern tiwa languages ,  primarily sandia ,  isleta ,  and ysleta del sur  ( tigua )  .
a native american people who originally lived in the rogue valley of interior southwestern oregon .
a native american tribe with four large cultural / linguistic divisions ,  those being the eastern ,  northern ,  and western shoshone ,  together with the gosiute .
any of several shoshone tribes that are indigenous to the great basin and have lands identified in the treaty of ruby valley 1863 .
a tribe of western shoshone native americans .
shoshone of the snake river plain of southern idaho and the northeast of the great basin where idaho ,  wyoming and utah meet .
originally northern paiute but are more culturally affiliated with the northern shoshone .
a tribe of northern shoshone ,  also called the akaitikka ,  agaidika ,  or "eaters of salmon" .
a group of native americans of the eastern woodlands culture group ,  who lived primarily in the region of what is now green bay ,  wisconsin ,  when first encountered by the french in 1667 .
a native american people often known by europeans and non - indigenous americans as the fox tribe .
a native american tribe whose ancestral territory is in the southern salinas valley and the santa lucia range in the central coast of california .
members of indigenous american ethnic groups which primarily speak languages of the caddoan language family .
a plains indian tribe who are headquartered in pawnee ,  oklahoma .
any of three non - contiguous groups of indigenous peoples of the great basin .
a numic tribe that has traditionally lived in the great basin region of the united states in what is now eastern california ,  western nevada ,  and southeast oregon .
a tribe of native americans that have lived in the colorado river basin of southern nevada ,  northern arizona ,  and southern utah .
a native american people of the sonoran desert ,  residing primarily in the u .s . state of arizona and the mexican state of sonora .
a group of native americans living in an area consisting of what is now central and southern arizona .
a native american people of the midwestern united states .
a federally recognized native american tribe in oklahoma and parts of kansas .
a group of native americans who speak any of the languages belonging to the dhegihan language family .
a federally recognized midwestern native american tribe who reside on the omaha reservation in northeastern nebraska and western iowa ,  united states .
a midwestern native american tribe of the dhegihan branch of the siouan language group .
a midwestern native american tribe of the great plains .
a native american people of northern california .
a group of native americans and an indigenous people of california from the yuba river and american river watersheds in northern california and the california central valley .
any of various indigenous american ethnic groups which speak languages that are part of the athabaskan language group .
a native american people of the southwestern united states .
a native american people who traditionally live in the central sierra nevada ,  the eastern sierra  ( generally south of bridgeport )  ,  the mono basin ,  and adjacent areas of the great basin .
mono native american groups living on the california - nevada border on the eastern side of the sierra nevada in the owens valley  ( mono: payahǖǖnadǖ / payahuunadu  -  "place / land of flowing water" )  along the owens river  ( wakopee )  and south to owens lake  ( pacheta )  are also known as the "owens valley paiute" .
mono native american groups living on the west side in the south - central foothills of the sierra nevada near mono lake as well as in the mono basin have been known throughout recorded history as "mono" ,  "mona , " "monache , " or "northfork mono , " as labeled by e .w .
a native american people indigenous to the colorado river in the mojave desert .
members of four linguistically related native american groups indigenous to what is now northern california ,  who traditionally spoke one of the miwok languages in the utian family .
a first nations people of the northeastern woodlands ,  indigenous to the areas now known as canada's atlantic provinces and the gaspé peninsula of quebec as well as the northeastern region of maine .
an apache tribe of southern athabaskan native americans .
a bannock ,  lemhi ,  or northern shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities .
a native american tribe ,  who live in the salt river pima - maricopa indian community and gila river indian community along with the pima ,  a tribe with whom the maricopa have long held a positive relationship .
a native american tribe of the great plains who have lived for centuries primarily in what is now north dakota .
an indigenous people of california who ,  at the time of the first contacts with the spanish in the 16th century ,  inhabited the coastal area of southern california ,  ranging 50 miles from the present - day southern part of los angeles county to the northern part of san diego county ,  and inland 30 miles .
a federally recognized tribe of native american pueblo people in west - central new mexico ,  usa .
an indigenous people of canada and the united states .
a native american tribe of the plateau culture area in southern oregon and northern california .
native american people concentrated in southern texas along the coast of the gulf of mexico .
an indigenous people of california .
a group of culturally similar indigenous peoples inhabiting the arctic regions of greenland ,  canada and alaska .
a group of yupikized athabaskan peoples in alaska .
members of the historical illinois confederation ,  especially those who spoke dialects of the miami - illinois language ,  one of the members of the algonquian language family .
any of various indigenous puebloan peoples speaking languages belonging to the uto - aztecan language family .
a native american tribe ,  who primarily live on the hopi reservation in northeastern arizona .
a siouan people enrolled in the federally recognized three affiliated tribes of the fort berthold reservation in north dakota .
a historically algonquian - speaking native american tribe located in north central montana .
an ethno - linguistic group of the pacific northwest ,  identified by their use of the salish languages which diversified out of proto - salish between 3 , 000 and 6 , 000 years ago .
a group of ethnically and linguistically related indigenous peoples of the pacific northwest coast ,  living in british columbia ,  canada and the u .s . states of washington and oregon .
a group of native american and first nations peoples who speak any of various languages belonging to the interior salish language family .
a group of native american and first nations peoples who speak any of various languages belonging to the northern interior salish language family .
a group of native american and first nations peoples who speak any of various languages belonging to the southern interior salish language family .
a salish - speaking group of native americans ,  and one of three tribes of the confederated salish and kootenai tribes of the flathead nation in montana .
a group of dakota peoples who speak languages belonging to the eastern dakota language family  ( also known as santee - sisseton or dakhóta )  .
a group of dakota peoples who speak languages belonging to the western dakota language family  ( also known as yankton - yanktonai or dakȟóta )  .
a group of eastern dakota people who reside in the eastern dakotas ,  central minnesota and northern iowa .
one of the western dakota peoples ;  their name roughly translates as "village - at - the end" .
one of the western dakota peoples ;  their name roughly translates as "little village - at - the end" .
native americans living primarily in southern montana .
one of the largest groups of first nations in north america .
native americans who live in baja california and sonora ,  mexico ,  and in arizona in the united states .
a tribe of native americans in north dakota .
the ethnic group that speaks primarily plains cree ,  particularly members of the historic iron confederacy  ( cree - assiniboine )  .
a native american nation originally speaking one of the algonquian languages .
native americans who live in northwestern california near the klamath river and pacific coast .
an indigenous people of california ,  whose traditional territory is around round valley ,  mendocino county .
a yuki person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an ethnic group of native americans native to central california .
bilingual  ( yokuts and mono )  ,  but basically "mono  ( nim ) " - speaking ,  partly adopted the culture of the neighboring yokuts .
bilingual  ( yokuts and mono )  ,  many mixed marriages with neighboring waksachi ,  often regarded as a "kings river yokuts band" .
a yokuts tribe of california with about 200 members ,  residing on the tule river reservation .
one of the many bands of yokuts .
one of many subgroups of the yokuts ;  they speak the yawdanchi language  ( also known as nutaa )  .
one of the many bands of yokuts ;  they lived along poso creek and the neighboring parts of kern river .
one of the tribes of yokuts ,  living along the kings river in california .
a group of native americans indigenous to northern california in the central sierra nevada ,  on the western side of the range .
groups of native americans that traditionally live in present - day mendocino ,  trinity ,  and humboldt counties on or near the eel river and van duzen river of northwestern california .
the wailaki  ( wintun term meaning "north language ." ) 
an indigenous people of kern river valley in the sierra nevada range of southern california .
a shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a group of linguistically related indigenous peoples from the klamath mountains .
a shasta person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a gesture analogous to a safe word ,  important in situations where verbal communication is not otherwise possible .
a group of native american peoples from western washington in the united states .
an indigenous people of california .
any of various pomoan peoples who speak primarily southern pomo .
any of various pomoan peoples who speak primarily northern pomo .
members of several related native american peoples of northern california ,  including the wintu  ( northern )  ,  nomlaki  ( central )  ,  and patwin  ( southern )  .
a band of wintun people native to the area of northern california .
a northern paiute person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities .
a northern paiute person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a wintun people native to the area of the sacramento valley ,  extending westward to the coast range in northern california .
the lassik  ( las' - sik ,  the name of their last chief )  had about 20 villages and occupied a portion of main eel river south to kekawaka creek ,  and its east tributaries ,  van duzen river ,  larrabee ,  and dobbyn creeks ,  as well the headwaters of the north fork eel river and mad river .
a lassik person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
one of the seven subtribes of the lakota people who ,  along with the dakota ,  make up the očhéthi šakówiŋ  ( seven council fires )  .
a subgroup of the northern californian yuki ;  the pomo use the term "tatu" to refer to them .
an alaska native people in the region of the kenai peninsula and prince william sound on the southern coast of alaska .
an indigenous first nation in canada ,  living in the area in and around bella coola ,  british columbia .
native americans residing in northeastern california ,  united states .
a blackfoot person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a blackfoot person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
an apache person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a navajo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a lakota person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a santee or western dakota person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
a southern maidu person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
any of various native american groups and tribes which speak languages of the sahaptian language family in the columbia plateau region in the northwestern united states .
an indigenous people of the pacific northwest coast .
a tulare yokuts person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a native american people of the u .s . state of washington .
a hopi person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a native californian ethnic group in the united states ,  which lives in the southern california tehachapi valley and across the tehachapi pass in the southern sierra nevada mountains to the north ,  toward lake isabella and walker pass .
an akimel o'odham or tohono o'odham person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a western shoshone person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a wappo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an indigenous people of northern california .
a yuki person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
an acoma or laguna pueblo person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
a ktunaxa person who is part of a certain non - binary cultural gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned male at birth .
an indigenous south american ethnic group which ,  at the time of the spanish conquest in 1532 ,  ruled an empire which was the largest in the americas .
any of various native american peoples which speak languages belonging to the shoshonean language family ,  a subdivision of the uto - aztecan language family .
any of various native american groups which primarily speak languages belonging to the numic language family .
any of various native american groups which speak languages of the piman language group .
a postmortem erection ,  technically a form of priapism ,  observed in the corpses of persons with penises who have been executed ,  particularly by hanging .
sexual ,  experiencing sexual attraction ;  not asexual .
any of various sexual orientations falling on the asexual spectrum between allosexual and asexual .
sexually attracted to persons only after a strong emotional bond has been formed .
the industry in which such travels and sightseeing are organized .
travel to another country for the purpose of medical treatment or care .
medical tourism for the purposes of transgender - related health care ,  usually related to gender confirming surgeries .
travel which includes volunteering components ;  volunteering with the purpose of traveling .
volunteer tourism turned toward short - term out - of - home / family care for children who became orphans because one or both of their parents died from aids .
a child  ( or ,  more broadly a person )  whose parents have died ,  are unknown ,  or have permanently abandoned them .
a child who became an orphan because one or both parents died from aids .
a proposed condition in which a partner experiences some of the same symptoms and behavior as an expectant parent .
a medical symptom primarily affecting the nervous system .
the symptom of pain in the cranial region .
headache which occurs shortly before menstruation .
headache which occurs shortly after childbirth .
a type of headache that occur in the skull and neck during sexual activity ,  including masturbation or orgasm .
a type of headache that occurs during ,  directly before ,  or directly after orgasm ;  or is otherwise related to ,  orgasm .
syndromes which occur around orgasm or are otherwise related to orgasm .
a rare urogenital disease characterized by the appearance of flu - like symptoms  ( fever ,  extreme fatigue ,  myalgia ,  itchy burning eyes ,  nasal congestion / rhinorrhea )  ,  as well as mood changes ,  irritability and concentration ,  memory and attention difficulties ,  within a few minutes to a few hours after ejaculation .
a syndrome characterized by spontaneous orgasm triggered from the inside of the foot .
a culturally - bound condition found in the cultures of south asia  ( including pakistan ,  india ,  bangladesh ,  nepal ,  and sri lanka )  in which male patients report that they suffer from premature ejaculation or impotence ,  and believe that they are passing semen in their urine .
the feeling of sadness ,  anxiety ,  agitation or aggression after sexual intercourse .
a cultural and societal phenomenon characterized by a man's extreme pride in his personal appearance and the fitness of his physique ,  which is accompanied by difficulties in coping with the requirements of psychological maturation and with the aging of his body .
a condition in which a person with an established human immunodeficiency virus infection acquires a second strain of hiv ,  often of a different subtype .
telling of puns ,  inappropriate jokes ,  or pointless stories in socially inappropriate situations ,  either compulsively  ( or pathologically )  or as a result of underlying social issues .
gender equity as it applies to menstruation ,  which also occurs in many transmasculine persons who do not identify as female .
menstruation in which menstrual blood flows back into the pelvis instead of out through the vagina ;  it may increase the risk of endometriosis .
a symptom consisting of the involuntary expulsion of air from the nose .
a phenomenon characterized by sneezing during orgasm or sexual arousal .
a phenomenon in which symptoms of a disease are fabricated by an individual other than the patient causing unnecessary ,  and often painful ,  physical examinations and treatments .
a factitious disorder characterized by habitual presentation for hospital treatment of an apparent acute illness ,  the patient giving a plausible and dramatic history ,  all of which is false .
a pattern of behavior akin to factitious disorder imposed on self ,  a psychiatric disorder ,  wherein those affected feign disease ,  illness ,  or psychological trauma to draw attention ,  sympathy ,  or reassurance to themselves .
a group or sect of people with a religious ,  philosophical or cultural identity ,  often existing on the margins of society or exploitative towards its members .
a social group with socially deviant or novel beliefs and practices .
a cult with a primary interest in political action and ideology .
a cult with a primary interest in any of various aspects of sexual behavior that are considered socially deviant or otherwise nonnormative .
a cult involved in sex trafficking or that practices any of various forms of sex trafficking .
a cult that teaches and practices polygamy ,  marriage between more than two people ,  most often polygyny ,  one man having multiple wives ,  have long been noted ,  although they are a minority .
a cult which practices any of various forms of sexual abuse .
a cult involved in sexual salvery or that practices any of various forms of sexual slavery .
a cult which practices pedophilia or other forms of child sexual abuse ;  a cult whose members are pedophiles .
a cult which practices prostitution for some purpose ,  often to bring others into the cult .
a cult which practices incest or whose members engage in incestuous activity  ( voluntarily ,  involuntarily ,  or somewhere inbetween if brainwashing is involved )  .
sexual contact which is unreciprocated .
a paraphilic interest in rubbing ,  usually one's pelvic area or erect penis ,  against a non - consenting person for sexual pleasure .
sexual arousal based on grabbing or rubbing one's hands against an unexpecting  ( and non - consenting )  person .
fetishistic sexual attraction to obese persons .
a form of fat fetishism in which sexual gratification is obtained not from the fat itself but from the process of gaining ,  or helping others gain ,  body fat .
a person who perceived any aspect of a crime ;  typically ,  a person who saw a crime .
a person who perceived any aspect of a sex crime ;  typically ,  a person who saw a sex crime .
under u .s . law ,  a person who first hears an allegation of abuse made by a child or another victim of abuse or sexual crime .
pregnancy in human adolescent females under the age of 19 .
pregnancy before a person has reached 13 years of age .
pregnancy ,  usually accidental ,  that is not desired by the parent or parents .
unintended or accidental pregnancy ,  including pregnancy resulting from failed contraceptive measures .
the condition of carrying two or more fetuses simultaneously .
the first pregnancy experienced by an animal .
intended pregnancy ,  one which is consciously desired at the time of conception or sooner .
any pregnancy after an animal's first pregnancy .
the condition of carrying twins simultaneously .
the condition of carrying triplets simultaneously .
the condition of carrying quintuplets simultaneously .
the condition of carrying quadruplets simultaneously .
the condition of carrying sextuplets simultaneously .
the condition of carrying septuplets simultaneously .
pornography which features performers of specific ethnic groups ,  or depictions of interracial sexual activity .
a form of sexual fetishism involving images of people swimming or posing underwater ,  and sexual activity in or under water .
a paraphilia in which a person is sexually aroused by the risk of being killed .
any of various sexual fetishes involving balloons .
a paraphilia whereby sexual arousal is obtained from being robbed .
a form of unconventional sexual attraction in which one is aroused by tears or sobbing .
a sexual fetish in which an individual is attracted to dolls and doll like objects such as figurines .
sexual harassment in which a person is offended by auditory or visual conduct which is offensive to them ,  but is not directly aimed at them  ( such as overhearing a sexist joke )  .
sexual harassment directly involving a person ;  sexual harassment directed at a specific person or persons .
a sexual practice involving the application of electrical stimulation to the nerves of the body ,  with particular emphasis on the genitals ,  using a power source  ( such as a tens ,  ems ,  violet wand ,  or made - for - play units )  for purposes of sexual stimulation .
sexual play or erotic situations involving food as a primary component .
sexual fetishism in which participants are aroused by erotic situations involving food .
a form of sexual fetishism whereby a person becomes aroused when copious amounts of a substance are applied to the naked skin ,  face ,  or to clothing .
a paraphilia characterized by the erotic desire to be consumed by ,  or sometimes to personally consume ,  another person or creature ,  or an erotic attraction to the process of eating in general practice .
a paraphilia in which sexual arousal ,  facilitation ,  and attainment of orgasm are responsive to and contingent upon being with a partner known to have committed an outrage ,  cheating ,  lying ,  known infidelities ,  or crime—such as rape ,  murder ,  or armed robbery .
sexual play in which lotion is used specifically as a lubricating medium .
a model who models fetish clothing or devices that augment their body in a fetish - like manner or in fetishistic situations ,  though they may not work exclusively in that form of modeling .
any practice of physically revering a part of another person's body ;  typically in a sexual context  ( such as in bdsm )  .
a form of body worship in which one participant ,  the worshiper ,  touches the muscles of another participant ,  the dominant ,  in a sexually arousing manner .
sexual arousal from displaying of strength or of muscles .
a sexual obsession of a submissive with their dominant partner's penis ;  or any type of sexual game in which a submissive is motivated by a real or pretended attraction to their partner's penis .
a sexual fascination with the feminine in the form of the vagina ,  along with all the practices related to the deification of the female in relationship to the vagina .
the complete lack of the means necessary to meet basic personal needs ,  such as food ,  clothing and shelter .
pregnancy as a result of rape .
poverty which occurs when a person cannot meet a minimum level of living standards ,  compared to others in the same time and place .
the condition of some part of one's anatomy being dilated or stretched .
dilation of the anus .
the reflexive dilation of the human anus to a diameter greater than two centimeters in response to the parting of the buttocks or anal stimulation ,  such as brushing with a medical instrument .
the distribution of sexually explicit images or video of individuals without their permission .
reflexes associated with the peripheral nervous system .
the reflexive contraction of the external anal sphincter upon stroking of the skin around the anus .
any of various temporary insanity defenses involving a state of panic used to justify assault ,  manslaughter ,  or murder of lgbtqia +  persons .
politicians who are transgender .
politicians who are bisexual .
politicians who are intersex .
an ethnic group who live mainly in the west nile region of uganda and in the adjoining area of the democratic republic of the congo  ( drc )  .
native peoples of kamchatka ,  russia .
an ethnic group native to the kamchatka peninsula in russia .
a term usually used to refer to hijras living in north india ;  also used in other parts of india  ( such as maharashtra )  by hijra to refer to themselves .
a gender categorization observed in a specific community in andhra pradesh .
hijra in maharashtra and karnataka who devote themselves to the service of a particular god .
kothi who devote themselves to the service of a particular god .
a term used to refer to hijra in tamil nadu .
hijra who have undergone nirvan ,  a ritual during which the testes ,  penis ,  and scrotum are removed .
hijra who present as female but have not yet undergone nirvan  ( nirwaan )  ,  although they often intend to at some point .
hijra who do not plan to undergo nirvan  ( nirwaan )  .
kothi who have had their penis ,  scrotum ,  and testicles removed ;  alternatively ,  a term used in north india to refer to some persons assigned male at birth who have sex with men or with men and women ,  often these persons cross - dress ,  express themselves in a more feminine manner ,  and fulfill the role of penetrative partner in sexual relationships .
a polite term sometimes used in the place of hijra in pakistan .
a person who undergoes any of the various processes of menstruation .
the study of behavior and cognition .
a social science dealing with group relationships ,  patterns of collective behavior ,  and social organization .
the branch of psychology that studies persons and their relationships with others and with groups and with society as a whole .
the study of crime and criminals with special reference to the personality factors and social conditions leading toward ,  or away from crime .
psychiatry in its legal aspects .
the scientific study of living organisms .
the science of the composition ,  structure ,  properties ,  and reactions of matter ,  especially of atomic and molecular systems .
the branch of science concerned with origin and development of humans in all their physical ,  social ,  and cultural relationships .
a sociolinguistic model in which slang utilized in minority populations is assimilated into the "standard" language variant .
the branch of social science that deals with the production and distribution and consumption of goods and services and their management .
the critical study of economics and economies ,  with a focus on gender - aware and inclusive economic inquiry and policy analysis .
a subfield of economics which seeks to understand the functioning and dynamics of the markets for wage labor .
any of various rituals associated with reproduction .
any of various rituals associated with fertility .
any of various rituals associated with pregnancy .
any of various rituals that the father adopts during the partner's pregnancy .
an autobiography about an lgbtqia +  person's life .
medical journals which cover urological topics .
homicide of an lgbtqia +  person in which the person's attitudes toward lgbtqia +  persons ultimately resulted in the homicide .
a man who identifies as heterosexual and engages in sexual intercourse or behavior with other men .
discrimination based on a person's gender being outside of the gender binary .
the imposition or enforcement of normative gender expressions on an individual who is perceived as not adequately performing ,  through appearance or behavior ,  the sex that was assigned to them at birth  ( see gender performativity )  .
the medicalization of life in which medical professionals ,  pharmaceutical companies ,  and medical device companies have a vested interest in sponsoring sickness by creating unrealistic health demands that require more treatments or treating non - diseases that are part of the normal human experience ,  such as age - related declines .
the injury done to patients by ineffective ,  unsafe ,  and erroneous treatments .
the destruction of traditional ways of dealing with ,  and making sense of ,  death ,  suffering ,  and sickness .
any of various processes related to medicine or medical practice .
the process by which human conditions and problems come to be defined and treated as medical conditions ,  and thus become the subject of medical study ,  diagnosis ,  prevention ,  or treatment .
medicalization wherein medical terms are invented for non - medical entities .
medicalization in which medical professionals unduly influence non - medical persons ,  especially in terms of hierarchy .
medicalization in which a medical professional redefines a social problem as a medical problem .
the process by which lgbtqia +  identities become medicalized .
the process by which something ceases to be medically defined as a problem or disorder .
the process by which lgbtqia +  identities become demedicalized .
the process by which being gay becomes demedicalized .
the process by which being gay becomes medicalized .
the process by which being transgender becomes medicalized .
the process by which being transgender becomes demedicalized .
the process by which being asexual becomes medicalized .
the process by which being asexual becomes demedicalized .
the process by which being intersex becomes medicalized .
the process by which being intersex becomes demedicalized .
the status during which a cisgender person carries their developing young in utero before birth ,  beginning from fertilization to birth .
the status during which a transgender person carries their developing young in utero before birth ,  beginning from fertilization to birth .
the status during which a transmasculine person or transgender man carries their developing young in utero before birth ,  beginning from fertilization to birth .
the status during which a transfeminine person or transgender woman carries their developing young in utero before birth ,  beginning from fertilization to birth .
a term used to cover a broad category of things rather than a single specific item .
a cisgender ally is a cisgender person who supports equal civil rights ,  gender equality ,  lgbtq social movements ,  and challenges homophobia ,  biphobia and transphobia .
biomedical laboratory ,  research ,  equipment or instrumentation facilities .
the buildings and organizations where healthcare services are provided .
a health care facility where patients are admitted to get treatment provided by a group of physicians practicing medicine together .
a medical clinic that assists a person or persons who want to become parents but for medical reasons have been unable to achieve this goal .
a medical clinic which specializes in areas of sexual health .
a clinic which provides services for gender nonconforming ,  transgender ,  and intersex persons .
the process by which puberty is inhibited ,  especially in cases of precocious puberty and in the treatment of transgender youth .
interference of a person's reproductive ability without the consent of the person or guardian .
interference of a person's reproductive ability with the consent of the person or guardian .
any substance that inhibits steroid 5 - alpha - reductase ,  an enzyme that converts testosterone into dihydrotestosterone  ( dht )  .
an artificial breast form which is meant to replace lost breast tissue or to otherwise enhance the external cosmetic appearance of the breast .
steroidal compounds related to estradiol .
a pharmaceutical preparation containing a mixture of water - soluble ,  conjugated estrogens derived wholly or in part from urine of pregnant mares or synthetically from estrone and equilin .
any of various surgical procedures which aim to feminize the voice .
an estrogen medication which was previously used for indications such as menopausal hormone therapy and gynecological disorders .
voice therapy consists of techniques and procedures that target vocal parameters ,  such as vocal fold closure ,  pitch ,  volume ,  and quality .
non - surgical techniques undertaken by trans women and trans men as a part of gender transition to make the perceived gender of their voices match their gender .
non - surgical techniques undertaken by trans women as a part of gender transition to make the perceived gender of their voices match their gender .
non - surgical techniques undertaken by trans men as a part of gender transition to make the perceived gender of their voices match their gender .
professional associations formed of and for those in the area of minority health .
professional associations formed of and for those in the area of gender and sexual minority health .
professional associations formed of and for those in the area of gender minority health .
professional associations formed of and for those in the area of transgender health .
an ester of an estrogen ,  most typically of estradiol but also of other estrogens such as estrone ,  estriol ,  and even nonsteroidal estrogens like diethylstilbestrol .
an ester of an estradiol .
a surgery for transgender men and transmasculine individuals in which the urethral plate and urethra are completely dissected from the clitoral corporeal bodies ,  then divided at the distal end ,  and the testosterone - enlarged clitoris is straightened out and elongated .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the scrotum .
the surgical creation of a scrotum in transgender men  ( as part of gender confirmation surgery )  or reparative plastic surgery of the scrotum in cisgender men .
any agent that binds to the gonadotropin releasing hormone receptors and causes both the inhibition of gonadotropin releasing hormone activities and a decrease in the pituitary output of follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone .
a type of medication which modulates the gnrh receptor ,  the biological target of the hypothalamic hormone gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh ;  also known as luteinizing - releasing hormone ,  or lhrh )  .
an antiandrogen with a nonsteroidal chemical structure .
an ester of an androgen ,  most typically of testosterone .
an ester of testosterone .
an four - carbon ester form of testosterone .
an antiandrogen with a steroidal chemical structure .
an estrogen medication which is used primarily in the treatment of prostate cancer in men .
any synthetic or animal - derived agent that is chemically identical or similar to an endogenous hormone with therapeutic application .
a synthetic analogue of the endogenous hormone gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  ,  with potential antineoplastic activity .
an ester of a progestogen or progestin  ( a synthetic progestogen )  .
marriage in which one of the parties is transgender .
a marriage in which both parties are transgender .
a marriage in which one party is transgender and the other party is cisgender .
the unequal protection transgender people receive in work ,  school ,  and society in general .
the process by which a transgender person or persons is made the subject of sexual obsession .
the process by which a transgender woman or women is made the subject of sexual obsession .
the process by which a transgender man or men is made the subject of sexual obsession .
a party held by a transgender woman or transfeminine person who is about to undergo some form of vaginoplasty ,  involving complete restructuring or removal of the penis .
nursing encompasses autonomous and collaborative care of individuals of all ages ,  families ,  groups and communities ,  sick or well and in all settings .
a latino man who is bisexual .
transgender women who engage in sexual activity with men ,  regardless of how they identify themselves .
transgender women who engage in sexual activity with women ,  regardless of how they identify themselves .
transgender women who engage in sexual activity with men and women ,  regardless of how they identify themselves .
a transgender woman who is bisexual .
a transgender woman who is pansexual .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by members of the lgbtqia +  community ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
a young man who is gay .
a young man who is bisexual .
an older person who is transgender .
a gay person who does not have hiv .
a gay man who does not have hiv .
an adult person who is a lesbian .
an adult person who is bisexual .
an adult male who is gay .
a male medical patient who is gay .
a medical patient who is a lesbian .
a medical patient who is bisexual .
an adult man who is bisexual .
an adult woman who is bisexual .
a young man who is gay .
a young adult who is bisexual .
a young adult who is a lesbian .
a young woman who is bisexual .
a young man who is bisexual .
a review of primary literature in health and health policy that attempts to identify ,  appraise ,  and synthesize all the empirical evidence that meets specified eligibility criteria to answer a given research question .
human penile - anal penetration in which no methods of preventing the transmission of sexually transmitted infections  ( stis )  are in place .
a feeling of strain and pressure .
chronically high levels of stress faced by members of stigmatized minority groups .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by bisexual people ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by lesbians ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by gay men ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
a disease caused by a plasmodiid infection .
a protozoan disease caused in humans by four species of the plasmodium genus: plasmodium falciparum ;  plasmodium vivax ;  plasmodium ovale ;  and plasmodium malariae ;  and transmitted by the bite of an infected female mosquito of the genus anopheles .
malaria caused by plasmodium falciparum infection .
infections or infestations with parasites .
any of various infections caused by members of the genus plasmodium .
any of various infections caused by members of the species plasmodium falciparum .
any of various infections caused by members of the family plasmodiidae .
a group of organisms that differ from all other groups of organisms and that are capable of breeding and producing fertile offspring .
an assessment of how the individual's well - being may be affected over time by a disease ,  disability or disorder .
an autobiography about a bisexual person's life .
an autobiography about a gay man's life .
an autobiography about a lesbian's life .
an autobiography about a transgender person's life .
any project with history components .
children who are members of gender and / or sexual minorities .
children who are members of gender minorities .
children who are members of sexual minorities .
children who are lgbtqia +  .
rights affecting transgender people encompassing everything from the legal recognition of a transgender person's gender to transgender people being incarcerated in the prison system which matches their gender .
people of color who are lgbtqia +  .
athletes who are lgbtqia +  .
an athlete who is transgender .
an athlete who is intersex .
a sudden change in the structure and nature of society .
a sociopolitical movement which is part of the movement seeking to combat violence against and the abuse of women .
a movement against sexual harassment and sexual assault .
a feminist movement to raise awareness of the normal appearance of the vulva and to defy the trend towards cosmetic surgery on the female genitals .
an organization which is rooted in or based in a specific community ,  and geared toward serving that community's needs .
an organization which operates within and serves the same locality ,  insuring the community has sustainable provision of community - service and actions in health ,  education ,  personal growth and improvement ,  social welfare and self - help .
a community - based organization affiliated with the anti - rape movement that works to help victims of rape ,  sexual abuse ,  and sexual violence .
a form of activism which often takes the form of a group of people attempting to focus the attention of a wider group on some cause or condition .
the disapproval of ,  or discrimination against ,  a person based on perceivable social characteristics that serve to distinguish them from other members of a society .
a family relationship by marriage of a relative  ( or through affinity )  .
events or stages involved in interpersonal relationships ,  usually romantic or sexual in nature .
a romantic meeting or outing with a partner or potential partner ,  or the person so met .
a pattern for dating where a group of single men and a group of single women organise a night out ,  with the hope of forming romantic partnerships .
the act of a person of one religious faith ,  commonly christianity or islam ,  dating a person with differing beliefs for the purpose of changing that person's beliefs or religion .
a pattern of dating involving two people who have met using online services ,  usually the internet .
a formalized matchmaking process which has the purpose of encouraging eligible singles to meet large numbers of new potential partners in a very short period of time .
a pattern of dating involving two people who have not previously met ,  usually arranged by a mutual acquaintance .
a pattern of dating involving two people who have met using mobile services such as text messaging ,  mobile chatting ,  or the mobile web .
an activity or program made available specifically to the romantically unattached ,  often with the underlying or explicit purpose of fostering dating or relationships among attendees .
any drug that incapacitates another person and renders them vulnerable to a sexual assault ,  including rape .
any marital relationship which is strictly monogamous .
any marital relationship which is not strictly monogamous .
any marital relationship which is polygamous .
any marital relationship that is bigamous .
a marital relationship in which two people marry as virgins ,  remain sexually exclusive their entire lives ,  and become celibate upon the death of their partner .
a marital relationship with only one person at a time .
differences in patterns of orientation for social interaction .
romantic identity is how one thinks of oneself in terms of to whom one is romantically attracted .
a sequence of expected behaviors for a given situation .
a sequence of expected behaviors for sexual situations ,  often built from preconceived notions of what sexual intercourse is like  ( conditioned by material such as pornography )  .
a theory that predicts certain intergroup behaviours on the basis of perceived group status differences ,  the perceived legitimacy and stability of those status differences ,  and the perceived ability to move from one group to another .
sexual attraction between members of the same gender .
sexual attraction between members of different genders .
hypersexual behavior observed as a symptom related to bipolar disorder .
hypersexual behavior observed as a symptom related to depressive disorders .
hypersexual behavior observed as a symptom related to manic behavior .
hypersexual behavior observed as a symptom related to parkinson's disease .
a social phenomenon that occurs when two individuals interact and one or both feel sexual desire ,  but the consummation is postponed or never happens .
the outward phenotype or look of an organism .
the outward phenotype or look of human beings .
a quality that causes an interest ,  desire in ,  or gravitation to something or someone .
the degree to which a person's physical features are considered aesthetically pleasing or beautiful .
an individual's ability to attract the sexual or erotic interests of other people ,  and is a factor in sexual selection or mate choice .
sexual abstinence undertaken in which a person expects to have sexual intercourse or engage in sexual activities at some point in the future .
sexual abstinence undertaken in which a person does not expect to engage in sexual intercourse or activities for the rest of their life .
the practice of refraining from sexual experiences in order to increase erotic arousal and / or tension .
sexual denial which includes total avoidance of genital stimulation to the penis or vulva .
a situation where a person is stimulated until they are close to orgasm ,  then stimulation is stopped ,  keeping the person on the brink of orgasm .
an artery disorder characterized by chronic elevated blood pressure in the arteries .
a vascular disorder located in an artery .
a condition involving temporary fluid congestion  ( vasocongestion )  in the testicles accompanied by testicular pain ,  caused by prolonged sexual arousal in the human male without ejaculation .
awareness about sexual assault and education about how to prevent sexual violence .
an attack ,  abuse ,  or assault committed against a person who is perceived by the aggressor to be a member of the lgbtqia +  community .
verbal or physical abuse against a person who is perceived by the aggressor to be a gay man ,  including men who are actually heterosexual .
verbal or physical abuse against a person who is perceived by the aggressor to be a lesbian ,  including women who are actually heterosexual .
verbal or physical abuse against a person who is perceived by the aggressor to be transgender ,  including persons who are actually cisgender .
bullying perpetrated by a single person against a target ot targets .
bullying perpetrated by a group against a target ot targets .
any bullying that hurts someone's body or damages their possessions .
bullying that is conducted by speaking or other use of the voice and does not involve any physical contact .
any kind of bullying which uses relationships to hurt others ;  alternatively ,  any bullying that is done with the intent to hurt somebody's reputation or social standing which can also link in with the techniques included in physical and verbal bullying .
the use of technology to harass ,  threaten ,  embarrass ,  or target another person .
a type of bullying ,  that occurs in any educational setting .
bullying as experienced by members of the military .
bullying which involves some sexual -  or gender - based component .
a persistent pattern of mistreatment from others in the workplace that causes either physical or emotional harm .
a form of workplace bullying which takes places in the institutions of higher education ,  such as colleges and universities in a wide range of actions .
bullying of persons with disabilities or perceived as having a disability or disabilities .
bullying of persons in the teaching profession .
bullying of persons in the profession of nursing .
bullying of persons in the medical profession .
the bullying of students as well as faculty and staff taking place at institutions of higher education such as colleges and universities .
how persons that are lgbtqia +  are displayed in culture .
how persons that are lgbtqia +  are displayed in media .
how persons that are asexual are displayed in media .
how gay men are displayed in media .
how persons that are transgender are displayed in media .
how lesbians are displayed in media .
how persons that are bisexual are displayed in media .
representation of lgbtqia +  persons in media that portrays those persons as having attributes ,  storylines ,  and relationships aside from being lgbtqia +  while still balancing some aspect of queerness .
how something or someone is displayed in some culture .
violent or abusive actions undertaken by members of a clergy ,  such as priests .
sexual abuse perpetrated by members of a clergy ,  such as priests .
child sexual abuse carried out by members of the clergy .
engaging in behaviors typically regarded as racist and defending them as being performed ironically or satirically .
antisemitism which suggests that jewish culture "corrupts" a given culture .
antisemitism that consists of stereotypes and canards that are based on the economic status ,  occupations or economic behavior of jewish persons .
the concept that a new form of antisemitism has developed in the late 20th and early 21st centuries ,  tending to manifest itself as opposition to zionism and criticism of the israeli government .
hostility toward jews based on the belief that jews seek national and / or world power .
prejudice against jews based on a belief or assertion that jews constitute a distinct racial or ethnic group that has inherent traits or characteristics that are in some way abhorrent or inherently inferior or otherwise different from that of the rest of society .
transphobia expressed primarily by persons who are transgender - exclusionary radical feminists .
occurs when a person in religious authority or a person with a unique spiritual practice misleads and maltreats another person in the name of some god or supernatural being or in the mystery of any spiritual concept .
the ability to vote in public ,  political elections  ( although the term is sometimes used for any right to vote )  .
the right to vote in elections ,  although more commonly simply referred to as "suffrage" .
the right to stand for election .
the combination of active and passive suffrage .
the right to vote to all adult citizens ,  regardless of wealth ,  income ,  gender ,  social status ,  race ,  ethnicity ,  or any other restriction ,  subject only to relatively minor exceptions .
a form of voting rights in which all adult males within a political system are allowed to vote ,  regardless of income ,  property ,  religion ,  race ,  or any other qualification .
the right of women to vote in elections .
the right of black persons to vote in elections .
the right of youth to vote and forms part of the broader youth rights movement .
an act which cancels or invalidates by withdrawing or reversing .
the revocation of suffrage  ( the right to vote )  of a person or group of people ,  or through practices ,  prevention of a person exercising the right to vote .
the prevention by bureaucratic ,  institutional and social barriers ,  of transgender individuals from voting or participating in other aspects of civic life .
disfranchisement of transgender individuals in the united states .
sexism reflected in organizational structures ,  policies ,  and practices as well as in public and financial institutions .
sexism in "modern" or contemporary society .
the denial that discrimination towards women continues to exist contemporarily ;  alternatively ,  sexism emerging as part of the conflict between egalitarian values and residual feelings toward women informed by past discriminatory behavior .
sexism which holds the core belief that male and female are rigid ,  exclusive categories .
sexism which holds the core belief that women are inferior in some form or fashion to men .
sexism in the medical profession or in medical settings .
sexism enacted by an individual in terms of prejudice ,  sexual harassment ,  or other sexist behaviors .
sexism which is endemic to a particular society or culture .
pseudoscientific belief that empirical evidence exists to support or justify sexism ,  inferiority of women and / or gender minorities ,  or superiority of men or cisgender persons .
the process during which newcomers or minorities are incorporated into the social structure of the host society .
segregation in which groups of persons are separated in some or all contexts ,  usually dependent on some attribute of a group of persons .
the physical ,  legal ,  and cultural separation of people according to their gender .
sex segregation that is legally required and enforces separation based on sex .
administrative sex segregation involves public and government institutions segregating by sex in their operating capacity ,  rather than as the result of a formal mandate .
segregation which is explicitly permitted by law ,  i .e .
sex segregation that is neither legally mandated ,  nor enacted in an administrative capacity ,  nor explicitly permitted by law .
any of various tests utilized to showcase examples of sexism or sexist behaviors or portrayals in culture or media .
an ideology which holds that a certain class of people is superior to others ,  and that they should dominate ,  control ,  and subjugate others ,  or are entitled to do so .
an ideology which holds that a certain ethnic group or racial group is superior to others ,  and that they should dominate ,  control ,  and subjugate others ,  or are entitled to do so .
when a person with a disability is abused physically ,  financially ,  sexually and / or psychologically due to the person having a disability .
a form of psychological abuse in which a victim is manipulated into doubting their own memory ,  perception ,  and sanity .
a type of social influence that aims to change the behavior or perception of others through abusive ,  deceptive ,  or underhanded tactics .
harassment or unwelcome attention of a political nature ,  often occurring in the environment of a workplace including hospitals ,  schools and universities .
a form of harassment ,  primarily sexual harassment that consists of unwanted comments ,  gestures ,  honking ,  wolf - whistlings ,  catcalling ,  exposure ,  following ,  persistent sexual advances ,  and touching by strangers in public areas such as streets ,  shopping malls ,  and public transportation .
a form of hate crime arising from the hostility of the perpetrator towards the disability ,  or perceived disability ,  of the victim ,  or because of their perceived connection to disability .
an initiation or behavior that involves humiliation ,  harassment or abuse ,  particularly in universities and in the military .
when any state or non - state actor breaches any of the terms of the universal declaration of human rights or other international human rights or humanitarian law .
when any state or non - state actor violates an individual's or group's civil rights  ( such as the rights to life ,  liberty ,  and security )  .
the status or condition of a person over whom any or all of the powers attaching to the right of ownership are exercised .
attaching the right of ownership over one or more people with the intent of coercing or otherwise forcing them to engage in sexual activities .
sexual slavery and exploitation of adults for commercial gain .
sexual slavery and exploitation of children for commercial gain .
sexual slavery and exploitation of persons for commercial gain .
trafficking of children for the purposes of sexual slavery or child prostitution ,  among other kinds of commercial child sexual exploitation .
services which make a product or service available for a consumer or business .
the illegal transportation of objects ,  substances ,  information or people ,  such as out of a house or buildings ,  into a prison ,  or across an international border ,  in violation of applicable laws or other regulations .
narrowly ,  the trade of humans for the purpose of forced labor ,  sexual slavery ,  or commercial sexual exploitation for the trafficker or others .
the illegal acquisition ,  sale ,  production ,  transport ,  movement ,  and distribution of controlled substances such as narcotics .
human trafficking for the purpose of sexual exploitation ,  including sexual slavery .
the illicit trade of contraband small arms and ammunition ,  which constitutes part of a broad range of illegal activities often associated with transnational criminal organizations .
trafficking of persons for the purpose of unfree and / or forced labor ,  i .e .
trafficking of children for any purpose ,  including slavery ,  forced labor ,  or sexual exploitation .
trafficking which occurs when organs are removed from the body for the purpose of commercial transactions .
social behavior deemed as lacking in civility .
low - intensity uncivil behaviors which violate respectful workplace norms .
an action or form of speech deliberately onr unintentionally rude .
an insult which takes the form of a verbal expression or statement .
an insult directed towards one's parents .
services offered to end users in a mobile telecommunications environment by a service provider or a specific service plan of a service provider .
the act of composing and sending electronic messages ,  typically consisting of alphabetic and numeric characters ,  between two or more users of mobile devices ,  desktops / laptops ,  or other type of compatible computer .
sending ,  receiving ,  or forwarding sexually explicit messages ,  photographs ,  or images ,  primarily between mobile phones ,  of oneself to others .
a form of revenge porn that employs non - physical forms of coercion to extort sexual favors from the victim .
the act of teasing ;  making fun of or making light of .
the act of insulting or making light of a person or other thing ,  sometimes merely by taunting ,  but often by making a caricature ,  purporting to engage in imitation in a way that highlights unflattering characteristics .
intentional behavior that would cause a person of ordinary sensibilities to fear injury or harm .
intentionally or knowingly putting another person in fear of bodily injury .
inappropriate conduct and / or illegal actions taken by police officers in connection with their official duties .
any misconduct of a sexual nature that is of lesser offense than felony sexual assault  ( such as rape and molestation )  ,  particularly where the situation is normally non - sexual and therefore unusual for sexual behavior ,  or where there is some aspect of personal power or authority that makes sexual behavior inappropriate .
narrowly ,  misconduct which occurs when a judge acts in ways that are considered unethical or otherwise violate the judge's obligations of impartial conduct ;  broadly ,  any kind of misconduct associated with any part of the legal process or to the administration of justice .
the act of attempting to improperly influence ,  alter or prevent the testimony of witnesses within criminal or civil proceedings .
misconduct severe enough to have the ability to lead to dismissal from a particular position ;  misconduct that is possibly criminal in nature  ( such as stealing or sexual harassment )  .
intentional falsification of scientific data by presentation of fraudulent or incomplete or uncorroborated findings as scientific fact .
the commission of an unlawful act ,  done in an official capacity ,  that affects the performance of official duties .
violation of laws ,  regulations ,  or professional standards .
the offering ,  giving ,  receiving ,  or soliciting of any item of value to influence the actions of an official ,  or other person ,  in charge of a public or legal duty .
a failure to exercise appropriate and or ethical ruled care expected to be exercised amongst specified circumstances .
misconduct involving financial and / or business matters .
a pattern of passive hostility and an avoidance of direct communication .
trauma caused by man - made ,  technological and natural disasters ,  including war ,  abuse ,  violence ,  mechanized accidents  ( car ,  train ,  or plane crashes ,  etc . ) 
trauma experienced by workers who witness their clients' trauma .
a trauma perpetrated by someone with whom the victim is close to and reliant upon for support and survival .
wrongdoings perpetrated when an institution fails to prevent or appropriately respond to wrongdoings by other individuals .
betrayal trauma experienced when a relationship's unspoken agreements have been breached .
deleterious experiences in first 18 years of life .
a traumatic psychological effect shared by a group of people of any size ,  up to and including an entire society .
trauma as a result of sexual assault ,  harassment ,  violence ,  or other related sexual behaviors .
sexual trauma experienced during childhood .
sexual trauma experienced during adulthood .
experiences of sexual assault ,  or repeated threatening sexual harassment that occurred while a person was in the military .
sexual assault that occurs during ,  or in a situation related to ,  military service .
elderly sexual assault is victimization of persons over the age of 60 ,  most of whom suffer from decreased functionality ,  frailty and weakness ,  and therefore are reliant on caretakers .
the collective sexual assault of women ,  and sometimes children ,  in public by groups of unrelated men .
a common law criminal offense consisting of the intentional maiming of another person's genitalia .
an act that constitutes a serious violation of the laws of war that gives rise to individual criminal responsibility .
a form of emotional abuse projected by a narcissist on to another individual .
a form of child abuse and a deficit in meeting a child's basic needs ,  including the failure to provide adequate supervision ,  health care ,  clothing ,  or housing ,  as well as other physical ,  emotional ,  social ,  educational ,  and safety needs .
a form of abuse where the perpetrator ,  who is responsible for caring for someone who is unable to care for themselves ,  fails to do so .
a behavioral condition in which an individual neglects to attend to their basic needs ,  such as personal hygiene ,  appropriate clothing ,  feeding ,  or tending appropriately to any medical conditions they have .
group psychological abuse refers to groups where methods of psychological abuse are frequently or systematically used on their members .
the intentional ,  direct injuring of body tissue ,  done without the intent to commit suicide .
course of conduct directed at a specific person that involves repeated  ( two or more occasions )  visual or physical proximity ,  nonconsensual communication ,  or verbal ,  written ,  or implied threats ,  or a combination thereof ,  that would cause a reasonable person fear .
the use of the internet or other electronic means to stalk or harass an individual ,  group ,  or organization .
use of a chemical substance ,  usually involving an individual consuming said substance  ( which may or may not be considered a drug by cultural definition )  .
usage of alcohol .
the use of biological agents in terrorism .
terrorism which has a political ideology or is led by some form of political viewpoint or viewpoints .
terrorism meant to overthrow capitalist systems and replace them with marxist–leninist or socialist societies .
terrorism that is motivated by a variety of different right - wing and far - right ideologies ,  most prominently by neo - nazism ,  neo - fascism ,  white nationalism ,  white separatism ,  ethnonationalism ,  religious nationalism ,  and anti - government patriot / sovereign citizen beliefs and occasionally by anti - abortion and tax resistance .
the act of forcefully criticizing ,  insulting ,  or denouncing another person .
any action or failure to act which causes unreasonable suffering ,  misery or harm to the patient .
unfair or improper legal action initiated with selfish or malicious intentions .
any form of violence ,  abuse ,  or neglect which takes place in any of various  medical settings or involves medical personnel and / or medical patients .
a form of police misconduct in which law enforcement officers end up breaking their political contract and abuse their power for personal gain .
a theoretical concept which posits that the more older brothers a man has from the same mother ,  the greater the probability is that he will be gay .
a populous region surrounding the san francisco ,  san pablo ,  and suisun bay estuaries in northern california .
the selection of a subset  ( a statistical sample )  of individuals from within a statistical population to estimate characteristics of the whole population .
any method of selecting a sample in which cases are not chosen by random sampling .
a type of nonrandom sampling that involves the sample being drawn from that part of the population that is close to hand .
a set of individuals or objects collected or selected from a statistical population by a defined procedure .
a sample created by any of various nonrandom sampling techniques .
a sample created by convenience sampling .
systematic investigation into a subject in order to discover facts ,  establish or revise a theory ,  or develop a plan of action based on the facts discovered .
any steroid that is synthetically created .
the condition of being insensitive to something .
the condition of being insensitive to any of various hormones .
insensitivity to any of various androgens .
steroid hormones that interact with vertebrate steroid hormone receptors .
a brief greeting or parting tradition in which two people grasp one of each other's like hands ,  in most cases accompanied by a brief up - and - down movement of the grasped hands .
the systematic and methodical manipulations of body tissues best performed with the hands for the purpose of affecting the nervous and muscular systems and the general circulation .
the use of massage techniques by one person on another person's erogenous zones for their sexual pleasure .
a session of passionate kissing and / or petting .
a form of physical intimacy involving two or more people .
eye contact occurs when two animals look at each other's eyes at the same time .
a medium of human communication that represents language with signs and symbols .
inclusive writing is writing which utilizes "people - first language" ,  or language that makes personhood the essential characteristic of any described person ,  and self - identification ,  i .e .
generally ,  practices which encourage and normalize non - sexist language and gender expansiveness  ( such as providing pronouns in resumes ,  websites ,  etc .
an online platform which people use to build social networks or social relationship with other people who share similar personal or career interests ,  activities ,  backgrounds or real - life connections .
a website which displays news ,  typically in the form of articles .
a news website which features user - posted content ,  typically ranked by popularity .
a user - created area of interest on the social news website reddit .
subreddits pertaining to or otherwise related to lgbtqia +  persons .
subreddits pertaining to or otherwise related to transgender persons .
random or exclamatory speech .
significant phonetic features produced by many lgbtqia +  persons .
significant phonetic features produced by many gay men .
significant phonetic features produced by many lesbians .
significant phonetic features produced by many transgender people .
involuntary  ( "parrot - like" )  ,  meaningless repetition of a recently heard word ,  phrase ,  or song .
involuntary and repetitive utterances of obscene or socially inappropriate words or statements .
the relative highness of lowness of speech as perceived by the listener .
the direct influence on people by any social group .
the direct influence on people by peers ,  or the effect on an individual who gets encouraged to follow their peers by changing their attitudes ,  values or behaviors to conform to those of the influencing group or individual .
the effect or sway that a peer group exerts on the beliefs ,  value systems and behavior of each member of a group .
the transmission of ideas ,  meanings ,  and values around the world in such a way as to extend and intensify social relations .
one of the main characteristics of cultural globalization ,  referring to the reduction in cultural diversity through the popularization and diffusion of a wide array of cultural symbols—not only physical objects but customs ,  ideas and values .
any procedure that involves testing or manipulating a sample of blood ,  urine ,  or other body substance in a laboratory setting .
a postmortem examination of the body that includes an examination of the internal organs and structures after dissection to determine the cause of death and the nature of pathological changes .
technique or procedure for manipulation of cells and analysis of cell properties and subcellular features .
procedures for the collection and / or preparation of biological specimens for light microscopy examination .
a biospecimen collection and staining procedure in which secretions and superficial cells of the cervix are collected and stained with the papanicolaou stain followed by microscopic examination to identify the presence of abnormal cells .
a criminal law defense in which the defendant argues that a prior history of abuse justifies violent retaliation .
a form of defense known as an excuse so that defendants falling within the definition of an "infant" are excluded from criminal liability for their actions ,  if at the relevant time ,  they had not reached an age of criminal responsibility .
a rarely used criminal defense .
a defense by which a defendant may claim diminished responsibility on the basis of substance intoxication .
a criminal defense occasionally used when a defendant is accused of a criminal attempt that failed only because the crime was factually or legally impossible to commit .
a defense to a civil lawsuit or criminal charge is a fact or set of facts other than those alleged by the plaintiff or prosecutor which ,  if proven by the defendant ,  defeats or mitigates the legal consequences of the defendant's otherwise unlawful conduct .
a law passed by a legislative body in a common law system to set the maximum time after an event within which legal proceedings may be initiated .
a concept related to an excuse defense  ( excuse )  which reduces or extinguishes a person's culpability and therefore a person's liability to pay compensation to the victim of a tort in the civil law .
a defense which notes that a person charged was coerced to act against their will .
a mistake of fact may sometimes mean that ,  while a person has committed the physical element of an offence ,  because they were labouring under a mistake of fact ,  they never formed the required mens rea ,  and so will escape liability for offences that require mens rea .
in law ,  provocation is when a person is considered to have committed a criminal act partly because of a preceding set of events that might cause a reasonable person to lose self control .
a physical and psychological condition of a person who has suffered  ( usually persistent )  emotional ,  physical ,  or sexual abuse from another person .
a clinical condition resulting from repeated physical and psychological injuries inflicted on person by their partner .
a clinical condition resulting from repeated physical and psychological injuries inflicted on a child by the parents or caregivers .
a defense which is not a defense in and of itself ,  but instead includes a combination of other defenses: self - defense ,  provocation ,  insanity ,  and diminished responsibility .
a version of the abuse defense in which an individual experiencing the daily life of racial segregation and violence common in many inner cities in the united states causes a subjective state equivalent to that caused by survival in a violent battleground of war .
artificial introduction of semen or spermatozoa into the vagina to facilitate fertilization .
an assisted reproductive technique that includes the direct handling and manipulation of oocytes and sperm to achieve fertilization in vitro .
the replacement of mitochondria in one or more cells to prevent or ameliorate disease .
an assisted fertilization technique consisting of the microinjection of a single viable sperm into an extracted ovum .
a donation of some biological substance in order to satisfy some medical need .
the medical donation of gametes .
transfer of preovulatory oocytes from donor to a suitable host .
the donation of a person's sperm ,  typically for usage in assisted reproductive techniques .
the process by which a cell or cells are kept alive outside of the organism from which it was derived  ( i .e . ,  kept from decay by means of a chemical agent ,  cooling ,  or a fluid substitute that mimics the natural state within the organism )  .
procedures for collecting specimens .
the process of obtaining semen from male humans or other animals with the use of various methods ,  for the purposes of artificial insemination ,  or medical study  ( usually in fertility clinics )  .
a penile condom used for the purposes of sperm collection .
usage of any of various surgical techniques to collect semen .
the surgical procedure of removing a small portion of tissue from the testicle and extracting any viable sperm cells from that tissue for use in further procedures ,  most commonly intracytoplasmic sperm injection  ( icsi )  as part of in vitro fertilisation  ( ivf )  .
a procedure in which spermatozoa are extracted from a person after they have been pronounced legally brain dead .
a means of inducing ejaculation through vibration .
a procedure used to obtain semen samples from sexually mature mammals .
sexual stimulation through the usage of vibration ,  usually with a vibrator .
stimulation of the penis using vibration .
stimulation of the clitoris using vibration .
the transfer of mammalian embryos from an in vivo or in vitro environment to a suitable host to improve pregnancy or gestational outcome in human or animal .
introduction of object and / or substance into or onto body ,  including injection ,  implantation ,  infusion ,  perfusion ,  transfusion ,  irrigation ,  instillation ,  insertion ,  placement ,  replacement ,  packing ,  intubation ,  catheterization ,  and cannulation .
the act of fixing something firmly or setting something securely or deeply into the body .
transference of a tissue or organ within an individual ,  between individuals of the same species ,  or between individuals of different species .
application of a ligature to tie a vessel or strangulate a part .
a method of sterilization where the fallopian tubes are surgically ligated to prevent conception .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the fallopian tubes .
sterilization by ligation of the fallopian tubes via tubal ligation .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the vas deferens .
surgical removal of any part of the vas deferens .
surgical removal of the ductus deferens ,  or a portion of it .
any of various surgeries which aim to alter vocal pitch .
any of various surgeries which aim to lower vocal pitch .
any of various surgeries which aim to raise vocal pitch .
any of various surgeries performed on the vocal folds ,  also known as the vocal cords .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the cervix of the uterus .
surgical removal of the cervix .
the surgical removal of the uterine cervix .
trachelectomy in which the parametria and vaginal cuff are also excised .
trachelectomy in which only the main body of the cervix is removed .
surgical removal of part of the uterine body ,  frequently performed as a treatment for leiomyomas .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the vaginal introitus .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the hymen .
surgical repair of the hymen .
the surgical removal of all or part of the hymen .
a surgical procedure to remove the hymen .
any surgical procedure that results in the construction or reconstruction of the hymen .
the temporary surgical restoration of the hymen .
any surgery involving cutting into the hymen .
a medical procedure involving the surgical opening of the hymen .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the epididymis .
the surgical removal of all or part of the vulva .
surgical resection of the vulva .
vulvectomy in which the skin and superficial subcutaneous tissues surrounding the vulva are removed .
vulvectomy in which the skin and deep subcutaneous tissues are removed .
a simple vulvectomy in which less than 80% of the vulvar area is removed .
a simple vulvectomy in which more than 80% of the vulvar area is removed .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the prostate .
health care services related to human reproduction and diseases of the reproductive system .
health care programs or services designed to assist individuals in the planning of family size .
a plan of action adopted by an individual or social group .
decisions for determining and guiding present and future objectives from among alternatives .
a course or method of action selected ,  usually by a government ,  from among alternatives to guide and determine present and future decisions .
a course or method of action selected ,  usually by a government ,  to guide and determine present and future decisions on population control by limiting the number of children or controlling fertility ,  notably through family planning and contraception within the nuclear family .
the process of bringing something into the mainstream .
gender mainstreaming is the public policy concept of assessing the different implications for women and men of any planned policy action ,  including legislation and programmes ,  in all areas and levels .
sex work done by migrant workers .
a venue where strip dancers provide the primary source of entertainment ,  predominantly in the form of striptease or other erotic dances .
a variant of "yes means yes" consent is enthusiastic consent .
consent expressed specifically ,  either verbally or in the form of writing .
consent which is not expressly granted by a person ,  but rather implicitly granted by a person's actions and the facts and circumstances of a particular situation  ( or in some cases ,  by a person's silence or inaction )  .
an institutional policy of granting authority to health personnel to perform procedures on patients or to remove organs from cadavers for transplantation unless an objection is registered by family members or by the patient prior to death .
sexual consent in which all parties agree to sexual conduct ,  either through clear ,  verbal communication or nonverbal cues or gestures .
consent which allows a decision maker to attempt to establish the decision an incompetent person would have made if they were competent .
consent given by all parties .
any malformation or condition related to a circulatory malformation which is present at birth ,  regardless of cause .
any malformation or condition related to a heart malformation which is present at birth ,  regardless of cause .
malformations of any part or the entirety of the nervous system which are present at birth .
any malformation or condition related to a cerebral malformation which is present at birth ,  regardless of cause .
a rare neural tube defect during pregnancy ,  resulting in the absence of a large portion of the brain and skull in the fetus .
congenital malformations of the central nervous system and adjacent structures related to defective neural tube closure during the first trimester of pregnancy generally occurring between days 18 - 29 of gestation .
hydrocephalus that is present at birth .
head circumference below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender .
incomplete closure of the embryonic neural tube ,  whereby some vertebral arches remain unfused and open .
malformations of any part or the entirety of the urethra which are present at birth .
a birth defect due to malformation of the urethra in which the urethral opening is above its normal location .
a congenital malformation in which the vagina is underdeveloped .
a feature of a statistical technique or of its results whereby the expected value of the results differs from the true underlying quantitative parameter being estimated .
personal life is the course of an individual's life ,  especially when viewed as the sum of personal choices contributing to one's personal identity .
everyday life comprises the ways in which people typically act ,  think ,  and feel on a daily basis .
a sector of a person's day - to - day existence which may involve sexual activity or represent the absence of sexual activity .
a life lived during which one suppresses or ignores elements of their identity in order to belong to a particular group or subgroup ,  in order to conform to the expectations of others .
any process involving law or legality .
a dispute between opposing parties which may be resolved by a court ,  or by some equivalent legal process .
a lawsuit or legal case involving some aspect of civil law or civil law procedure .
a legal case in which a person is tried as a criminal or which otherwise involves some aspect or aspects of criminal law .
any of various legal cases which reach the federal level or federal courts in government .
a lawsuit or legal case involving some aspect or aspects of family law .
federal cases taking place in the united states .
court cases heard at the supreme court of the united states .
court cases heard at the tax court of the united states .
united states supreme court cases during which earl warren was chief justice .
united states supreme court cases during which john roberts was chief justice .
united states supreme court cases during which william rehnquist was chief justice .
united states supreme court cases during which warren e . burger was chief justice .
the process of modifying behavior by raising awareness of gender equality  ( or inequality )  .
an employee in a company which aids in workplace social gender transition for transgender persons .
any of various lgbtqia +  events related to sports .
a presentation of a topic to an audience at a conference .
marches including political rallies for the purposes of women's rights or other women's movements .
conferences specific to women .
mobilization of human ,  financial ,  capital ,  physical and or natural resources to generate goods and services . . increase in the level of production of goods and services .
a broad concept denoting the idea that societies and countries have differing levels of "development" on an international scale .
the gender and development  ( gad )  approach focuses on the socially constructed differences between men and women ,  the need to challenge existing gender roles and relations ,  and the creation and effects of class differences on development .
an approach of development projects that emerged in the 1960s ,  calling for treatment of women's issues in development projects .
murders organized by some categorical typing that isn't by method .
a homicide in which the offender searches for erotic satisfaction by killing someone .
sexual arousal or gratification contingent on the death of a human being .
intentional action to destroy a people  ( usually defined as an ethnic ,  national ,  racial ,  or religious group )  in whole or in part .
extermination of national culture as a genocide component .
an event in which an organism is killed .
any of various events during which a person or person's other than one's self are killed .
killing in which one person or persons kills another person .
killing in which one person or persons kill more than one person .
under the strictest definition ,  incidents of non - combat killing of 50 , 000 people or more .
any of various rates involving number of births in a population ;  usually used as shorthand for crude birth rate .
the ratio of live births in an area to the population of that area ,  expressed per 1000 people in the population per year .
the number of deaths per given unit of population over a given period of time .
any of various rates of fertility .
any of various rates of reproduction or reproductive ability .
the average number of daughters that would be born to a female  ( or a group of females )  if she passed through her lifetime conforming to the age - specific fertility and mortality rates of a given year .
the average number of daughters a woman would have if she survived all of her childbearing years ,  which is roughly to the age of 45 ,  subject to the age - specific fertility rate and sex ratio at birth throughout that period .
the number of homicides per given unit of population over a given period of time .
the number of intentional homicides per given unit of population over a given period of time .
the number of births per one thousand women of a given age group in a given region for a specified amount of time .
the number of offspring that would be born per woman if they were to live through their childbearing years ,  bearing offspring in accordance with current age - specific fertility rates .
mortality from all causes in a given time interval ,  for a given population .
the systematic forced removal of ethnic ,  racial and / or religious groups from a given territory by a more powerful ethnic group ,  often with the intent of making it ethnically homogeneous .
an attack at an educational institution ,  such as a primary school ,  secondary school ,  or university ,  involving the use of firearms .
any kind of violence considered to have a "massive" scope .
coercion of a sexual nature .
how one chooses  ( or is forced )  to express their sexuality .
a group sex act in which one participant is ejaculated on by two or more other participants .
oral intercourse practiced simultaneously ,  with each other's mouths placed on or near one another's genitals .
a situation in which a person has previous engaged in sexual intercourse ,  but makes some type of commitment to not be sexually active again until marriage or some other point in the future .
gender analysis is a type of socio - economic analysis that uncovers how gender relations affect a development problem .
a form of a uterine anomaly or variation where the uterine cavity displays a concave contour towards the fundus .
a type of mullerian anomaly in the human uterus ,  where there is a deep indentation at the fundus  ( top )  of the uterus .
an anomaly of the uterus which involves a hypoplastic or t - shaped uterus .
a malformation of the uterus in which the uterine cavity is partitioned by a longitudinal septum while the outside of the uterus has a normal typical shape .
a unicornuate uterus represents a uterine malformation where the uterus is formed from one only of the paired müllerian ducts while the other müllerian duct does not develop or only in a rudimentary fashion .
any of various methods of removing facial and / or body hair .
removal of hair from the root ,  which lasts from several days to permanent removal .
temporary hair removal to the level of skin ,  lasting anywhere from several hours to several days .
the removal of hair ,  by using a razor or any other kind of bladed implement ,  to slice it down—to the level of the skin or otherwise .
the process of hair removal by means of exposure to pulses of laser light that destroy the hair follicle .
the process of using electricity for hair removal .
method for supporting institutional and organizational change which ultimately is meant to foster gender awareness and equality .
a sex education instruction method based on - curriculum that aims to give students the knowledge ,  attitudes ,  skills and values to make appropriate and healthy choices in their sexual lives .
a form of sex education that teaches not having sex outside of marriage .
a sex education program within a school ,  university ,  or community center that addresses prominent sexual health topics among lgbtqia +  groups .
education about the human immunodeficiency viruses and the diseases they cause ,  primarily aids .
an excessive reaction to stress caused by one's environment that may be characterized by feelings of emotional and physical exhaustion ,  coupled with a sense of frustration and failure .
an excessive stress reaction to one's occupational or professional environment .
adverse psychological and behavioral reactions caused by the pressures and demands of employers or clients or other factors ,  such as the physical environment of the workplace ,  workplace violence ;  or workplace bullying .
emotional distress caused by repeated or prolonged expression of compassion or empathy .
decreased condom usage in response to weariness of and decreased effectiveness of safer sex messages .
a phenomenon wherein individuals or societies who had been concerned about the impact of hiv or aids become desensitized to having a strong emotional response to hiv issues after receiving continual messages about the danger over a long period of time .
a malformation of the uterus in which the uterus is present as a paired organ as a result of the failure of fusion of the mullerian ducts during embryogenesis .
a human life stage that begins at two years of age and continues until five complete years of age .
a human life stage that begins at six years of age and continues until eleven complete years of age .
this time period in the life of a person can be referred to as middle age .
this time in the lifespan is considered to be the developmental stage of those who are between 18 years old and 40 years old .
adulthood in a legal sense ;  that is ,  when one has reached the age of majority .
a person of legal age ,  typically specified as the age of majority .
a period of human life from 12 to 36 months of age  ( 1 to 3 years )  .
disorders related to usage of any of various substances .
disorders related to usage of alcohol .
disorders related to usage of amphetamines .
disorders related to usage of cocaine .
disorders related to usage of narcotics .
disorders related to usage of opioids .
addiction disorders are pathological patterns of addictive behavior which include impaired control over substances and / or behavior ,  preoccupation with the substance and / or behavior ,  continued use despite consequences ,  and denial .
addiction to a process such as a behavior .
physical and / or psychological dependence to any substance .
the psychological or physiological need to take a substance in order to experience its effects or to avoid the effects of its absence .
problematic ,  compulsive use of the internet ,  that results in significant impairment in an individual's function in various life domains over a prolonged period of time .
a process addiction in which the patient compulsively gambles .
the problematic ,  compulsive use of video games that results in significant impairment to an individual's ability to function in various life domains over a prolonged period of time .
an internet addiction in which the subject makes compulsive use of the internet software facebook or other online social media networks .
a condition in which the use of one or more substances leads to a clinically significant impairment or distress .
substance - induced disorders include medical conditions that can be directly attributed to the use of a substance .
the psychological trauma experienced by a rape victim that includes disruptions to normal physical ,  emotional ,  cognitive ,  and interpersonal behavior .
mental health disorders that are a result of an atypical response to both short and long - term anxiety due to physical ,  mental ,  or emotional stress .
an anxiety disorder which results from a traumatic experience that results in psychological trauma .
anxiety disorders manifested by the development of characteristic symptoms following a psychologically traumatic event that is outside the normal range of usual human experience .
a class of traumatic stress disorders that is characterized by the significant dissociative states seen immediately after overwhelming trauma .
an acute stress disorder that involves neurotic reactions to unusual ,  severe ,  or overwhelming military stress .
any of various disorders manifesting with symptoms similar to those of schizophrenia .
a severe emotional disorder of psychotic depth characteristically marked by a retreat from reality with delusion formation ,  hallucinations ,  emotional disharmony ,  and regressive behavior .
a psychotic disorder that is characterized by recurring episodes of mood fluctuations and a loss of contact with reality .
a congenital  ( due to inherited enzyme abnormality )  or acquired  ( due to failure of a metabolic important organ )  disorder resulting from an abnormal metabolic process .
disorders caused by nutritional imbalance ,  either overnutrition or undernutrition .
any of various disorders related to appetite .
a disorder associated with three or more of the following: eating until feeling uncomfortably full ;  eating large amounts of food when not physically hungry ;  eating much more rapidly than normal ;  eating alone due to embarrassment ;  feeling of disgust ,  depression ,  or guilt after overeating .
a condition of mental health that affects cognitive functions including memory processing ,  perception and problem solving .
any of various cognitive conditions marked by depressive episodes alternate with manic or hypomanic episodes ,  or mixed episodes that feature symptoms of both mood states .
a spectrum of cognitive disorders that includes bipolar disorder ,  cyclothymic disorder ,  and cases where subthreshold symptoms are found to cause clinically significant impairment or distress .
an affective disorder manifested by either a dysphoric mood or loss of interest or pleasure in usual activities .
disorder in which five  ( or more )  of the following symptoms have been present during the same 2 - week period and represent a change from previous functioning ;  at least one of the symptoms is either  ( 1 )  depressed mood or  ( 2 )  loss of interest or pleasure .
movements or behaviors associated with sleep ,  sleep stages ,  or partial arousals from sleep that may impair sleep maintenance .
nrem parasomnias usually occur within a few hours after sleep onset ,  episodes last from a few minutes to as long as 30 - 40 min ,  and are characterised by amnesia for the event .
a type of parasomnia that occurs during rem sleep .
disorders characterized by confusional arousals ,  i .e .
a combination of a parasomnia and an eating disorder .
a parasomnia characterized by an individual engaging in sexual acts while in non - rapid eye movement  ( nrem )  sleep .
a sleep disorder characterized by abrupt awakenings from sleep with a panicky scream ,  accompanied by signs of autonomic arousal .
a parasomnia characterized by a partial arousal that occurs during stage iv of non - rem sleep .
drinking an excessive amount of alcoholic beverages in a short period of time .
cluster a personality disorders are often associated with schizophrenia: in particular ,  schizotypal personality disorder shares some of its hallmark symptoms ,  e .g . ,  acute discomfort in close relationships ,  cognitive or perceptual distortions ,  and eccentricities of behavior ,  with schizophrenia .
a categorization of personality disorders characterized by dramatic ,  overly emotional or unpredictable thinking or behavior and interactions with others .
personality disorders characterized by high levels of anxiety and fearfulness .
any object or event that elicits a sensory or behavioral response in an organism .
a psychological stimulus that prompts recall of a previous traumatic experience .
a cautionary statement about something .
warnings that a work contains some type of content .
warnings that a work contains writing ,  images ,  or concepts that may be distressing to some people .
any of various malignant neoplasms that commonly develop in persons infected with hiv .
a group of syndromes characterized by poor or absent immunological functions .
infection by any of various slow viruses .
diseases of viral origin ,  characterized by incubation periods of months to years ,  insidious onset of clinical manifestations ,  and protracted clinical course .
an hiv infection which is asymptomatic in nature .
any of various viral infectious diseases caused by the human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  .
carcinoma that develops in the context of an individual infected with a virus .
carcinoma occurring in hiv - positive patients .
any of various conditions related to a person's height .
any of various conditions related to a person's size .
any of various conditions related to a person's weight .
any of various conditions in which a person is of especially tall stature .
any of various conditions in which a person is of especially short stature ;  typically defined as an adult of a height less than 147 centimeters  ( 4'10" )  .
a usually neoplastic transformation of the cell ,  associated with altered architectural tissue patterns .
any of various turner syndromes that are the result of genetic mosaicism .
turner syndrome as a result of tetraploidy .
a gonadal dysgenesis syndrome characterized by absence of one of the sex chromosomes .
turner syndrome in which 45 , x / 46 , xx mosaicism is observed .
a hypogonadotropic hypogonadism with a defective sense of smell  ( anosmia or hyposmia )  .
a variant of down syndrome in which the person also has three x chromosomes .
a condition occurring in the female offspring of dizygotic twins in a mixed - sex pregnancy ,  usually in cattle .
any of various syndromes defined by chromosomal deletion .
a chromosomal deletion syndrome that is a nephroblastoma that results in a rare genetic syndrome in which affected children are predisposed to develop wilms tumor ,  aniridia  ( absence of the colored part of the eye ,  the iris )  ,  genitourinary anomalies ,  and intellectual disabilities .
a syndrome characterized by chronic kidney failure and gonadal dysgenesis in phenotypic females with karyotype of 46 , xy or female individual with a normal 46 , xx karyotype .
an autosomal dominant disease that is characterized by the association of diffuse mesangial sclerosis  ( dms )  ,  intersex anatomy with a 46 , xy karyotype ,  and nephroblastoma that derives from an abnormality in the wt1 gene  ( wilms' tumor suppressor gene )  .
a condition caused by the excessive secretion of androgens from the adrenal cortex ;  the ovaries ;  or the testes .
any of various chromosomal disorders that are y - linked .
a condition characterized by the presence of an extra x chromosome in each cell of a person who is xx .
a condition caused by the presence of an extra y chromosome resulting in 47 , xyy karyotype in an individual with male phenotype .
an extremely rare chromosomal syndrome caused by the presence of four x chromosomes instead of two x chromosomes .
a rare y chromosome number anomaly that affects only males .
a rare sex chromosome abnormality in which a female child has 3 extra x chromosomes .
a rare gonosome anomaly syndrome characterised by a androgynous habitus with gynecoid fat distribution and shape ,  normal to tall stature ,  moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  distinctive facial features  ( prominent forehead ,  epicanthic folds ,  broad nasal bridge ,  prognathism )  ,  gynaecomastia ,  hypogonadism ,  cryptorchidism ,  small penis and behavioural abnormalities  ( including solitary ,  passive disposition but prone to aggressive outbursts ,  autistic )  .
a rare y chromosome number anomaly with a variable phenotype .
any of various chromosomal disorders that are x - linked .
an x - linked syndrome that is characterized by moderate to severe intellectual disability ,  macroorchidism ,  and distinct facial features ,  including long face ,  large ears ,  and prominent jaw ,  and has material basis in x - linked inheritance and a loss of fmr1 function .
any of various conditions or statuses related to genetic features or entities .
the occurrence in an individual of two or more cell populations of different chromosomal constitutions ,  derived from different individuals .
a rare ,  sex chromosome condition characterized by the two different haploid sets of maternal and paternal chromosomes and variable phenotype  -  from male or female genitalia ,  to different degrees of ambiguous genitalia ,  and often infertility .
any of various chromosome disorders which are congenital in nature .
the occurrence in an individual of two or more cell populations of different chromosomal constitutions ,  derived from a single zygote ,  as opposed to chimerism in which the different cell populations are derived from more than one zygote .
any of various syndromes defined by chromosomal duplication .
any of various syndromes defined by chromosomal insertion .
any of various syndromes defined by chromosomal instability .
any of various syndromes defined by chromosomal inversion .
any of various syndromes defined by chromosomal translocation .
any of various syndromes defined by structural chromosomal differences .
any of various syndromes defined by numerical chromosomal differences .
any of various syndromes defined by chromosome gain .
any of various syndromes defined by chromosome loss .
an infantile syndrome characterized by a cat - like cry ,  failure to thrive ,  microcephaly ,  intellectual disability ,  spastic quadriparesis ,  micro -  and retrognathia ,  glossoptosis ,  bilateral epicanthus ,  hypertelorism ,  and tiny external genitalia .
a congenital anomaly characterized by immunodeficiency ,  abnormal facies ,  congenital heart disease ,  hypocalcemia ,  and increased susceptibility to infections .
a chromosome deletion syndrome characterized by mild - to - moderate infantile hypotonia ,  minor skeletal anomalies ,  prepubertal short stature ,  brachydactyly ,  ophthalmologic and otolaryngologic abnormalities ,  peripheral neuropathy ,  developmental delay ,  cognitive impairment ,  and behavioral abnormalities that has_material basis_in a 3 .7 - mb interstitial deletion in chromosome 17p11 .2 or sometimes by mutations in the rai1 gene in the same region .
a genetic condition that affects many parts of the body .
a syndrome that is considered as part of the spectrum of wolf - hirschhorn syndrome variability .
a rare genetic disorder characterized by hypotonia ,  failure to thrive ,  intellectual disability ,  developmental disorders ,  congenital anomalies ,  and autism spectrum disorders .
any of various conditions or statuses related to chromosomal features or entities .
a syndrome caused by a chromosomal deletion smaller than 5 million base pairs  ( 5 mb )  spanning several genes that is too small to be detected by conventional cytogenetic methods or high resolution karyotyping  ( 2–5 mb )  .
the chromosomal constitution of cells which deviate from the normal by the addition or subtraction of chromosomes ,  chromosome pairs ,  or chromosome fragments .
a chromosomal condition in that is characterized by an addition of chromosomes that results in a chromosome number that is not an exact multiple of the haploid number .
a chromosomal condition in which a somatic cell is missing a single member of one or more pairs of homologous chromosomes .
a chromosomal condition in which the chromosomal number is greater than the normal diploid number .
a chromosomal condition in which the chromosomal number is greater than the normal triploid number .
a chromosomal condition in which the chromosomal number is less than the normal diploid number .
a chromosomal condition in which the chromosomal number is less than the normal triploid number .
an aneuploidy of the allosome .
an aneuploidy of the autosome .
a condition in which some spermatozoa are aneuploid .
a numerical chromosomal condition characterized by the presence of copy number variations in less than five percent of chromosomal arms .
the state of a cell or organism having more than two paired  ( homologous )  sets of chromosomes .
any of various conditions or statuses related to the number of chromosomal features or entities .
mosaicism involving a particular cell or cells .
mosaicism involving a particular chromosome or chromosomes .
mosaicism involving a particular gene or genes .
a type of genetic mosaicism where more than one set of genetic information is found specifically within the gamete cells .
the presence of genetically distinct populations of somatic cells in a given organism caused by dna mutations ,  epigenetic alterations of dna ,  chromosomal conditions or the spontaneous reversion of inherited mutations .
mosaicism involving the allosome .
mosaicism involving the autosome .
a genetic mosaic in which some cells are 45 , x and others are 46 , xx .
a genetic mosaic in which some cells are 45 , x and others are 46 , xy .
a genetic mosaic in which some cells are 46 , xxy and others are 46 , xx .
a genetic mosaic in which some cells are 47 , xxy and others are 46 , xy .
polyploidy in which there are three sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
polyploidy in which there are four sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
polyploidy in which there are five sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
polyploidy in which there are six sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
polyploidy in which there are seven sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
polyploidy in which there are eight sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
polyploidy in which there are ten sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
polyploidy in which there are twelve sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
polyploidy which occurs in some tissues of animals that are otherwise diploid .
tetraploidies observed in humans .
triploidies observed in humans .
a kind of triploidy in which there are three copies of every chromosome instead of two .
a tetraploid karyotype in which the four sex chromosomes are all x .
a tetraploid karyotype in which the four sex chromosomes are x ,  x ,  y ,  and y .
a chromosomal condition in which a fetus has three copies of every chromosome instead of two .
human triploidy in which there are 69 sets of chromosomes per cell ,  including two x chromosomes and one y chromosome .
human triploidy in which there are 69 sets of chromosomes per cell ,  including one x chromosome and two y chromosomes .
the degree of replication of the chromosome set in the karyotype .
a chromosomal condition in which a fetus has four copies of every chromosome instead of two .
ploidy in which there is one set of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
the chromosomal constitution of cells ,  in which each type of chromosome is represented twice .
polyploidy in which there are seven sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
the chromosomal constitution of cells ,  in which each type of chromosome is represented once .
ploidy in which there are no sets of chromosomes in the cell nucleus .
a low number of circulating cells transferred from one individual to another .
mosaicism occurring with brain cells .
gain of an entire chromosome or chromosome arm .
loss of an entire chromosome or chromosome arm .
duplication of an entire chromosome or chromosome arm .
variation affecting the number of chromosomes .
the condition in which one chromosome of a pair is missing .
two copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
the condition of having additional copies of a chromosome present in a cell .
no copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
three copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
the possession of four chromosomes of any one type in an otherwise diploid cell .
five copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
six copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
seven copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
eight copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
nine copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
ten copies of a chromosome in a cell or organism .
a trisomy quality inhering in a bearer when part of the bearer's extra chromosome is attached to one of the other chromosomes ,  or if one of the bearer's chromosomes has two copies of part of its chromosome .
trisomies observed in humans .
tetrasomies observed in humans .
monosomies observed in humans .
the presence in a cell of two paired chromosomes from the same parent ,  with no chromosome of that pair from the other parent .
uniparental disomy with duplication of a single chromosome from one parent .
uniparental disomy with both homologous chromosomes from one parent .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of chromosome 1 .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of chromosome 4 .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of chromosome 5 .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of chromosome 7 .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of chromosome 11 .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of chromosome 15 .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of chromosome 17 .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of chromosome 22 .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the absence of one of the copies of the x chromosome  ( making the person's karyotype 45 , x )  .
pentasomies observed in humans .
a pentasomy characterized by the presence of three extra x chromosomes  ( 49 , xxxxx )  .
the possession of four copies of chromosome 7 in an otherwise diploid cell .
the possession of four copies of chromosome 12 in an otherwise diploid cell .
the possession of four copies of chromosome 17 in an otherwise diploid cell .
the possession of four copies of the x chromosome in an otherwise diploid cell ,  making the person's karyotype 48 , xxxx .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 8 in somatic cells .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 9 in somatic cells .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 13 in somatic cells .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 16 in somatic cells .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 18 in somatic cells .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 21 in somatic cells .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the presence of a third copy of chromosome 22 in somatic cells .
a chromosomal copy number variation consisting of the presence of a third copy of the x chromosome in somatic cells ,  making the person's karyotype 47 , xxx .
a chromosome disorder associated with trisomy of all or part of chromosome 18 .
a chromosome syndrome associated with trisomy of all or part of chromosome 13 .
a bodily disposition is a disposition that inheres in some extended organism .
a mental disposition is a bodily disposition that is realized in a mental process .
a personality is a complex sum of dispositions and predispositions towards mental processes and behaviour .
a state in which attention is largely directed outward from the self .
a state in which attention is largely directed inward upon one's self .
a process whereby individuals of a given gender are encouraged or otherwise helped in overcoming systematic bareers to gender equality  ( such as health or education disparities )  .
women's empowerment is the process in which women elaborate and recreate what it is that they can be ,  do ,  and accomplish in a circumstance that they previously were denied .
broadly ,  the strong social reactions of outrage ,  anger ,  or surprise ,  when accusations or rumours circulate or appear for some reason ,  regarding a person or persons who are perceived to have transgressed in some way .
a scandal involving allegations or information about possibly immoral or illegal sexual activities being made public .
a sex scandal of a political nature or involving political figures .
an action or event regarded as morally or legally wrong and causing general public outrage .
a war between organized groups within the same state or country .
the active ,  professed refusal of a citizen to obey certain laws ,  demands ,  orders or commands of a government .
menstruation as experienced by transgender men .
menstruation as experienced by cisgender women .
menstruation as experienced by nonbinary persons .
menstruation as experienced by intersex men .
menstruation as experienced by intersex persons .
menstruation as experienced by intersex women .
a syndrome which primarily affects the gonads .
a syndrome which primarily affects the ovaries .
a category of syndromes related to menses .
premenstrual syndrome  ( pms )  is a generic term which includes a broad group of emotional ,  behavioral and physical symptoms that occur for several days to several weeks before menses and subside following the menstrual period .
a term which describes the psychological aspects of premenstrual syndrome ,  namely tension ,  depression ,  hostility ,  and increased seizure activity in persons with seizure disorder .
the symptoms of premenstrual syndrome as experience by transgender men .
the symptoms of premenstrual syndrome as experience by transgender women .
the symptoms of premenstrual syndrome as experience by cisgender women .
a depressive disorder that does not meet full criteria for major depressive disorder but in which at least two depressive symptoms are present for two weeks .
disorder where symptoms  ( e .g . ,  markedly depressed mood ,  marked anxiety ,  marked affective lability ,  decreased interest in activities )  regularly occurred during the last week of the luteal phase  ( and remitted within a few days of the onset of menses )  .
laws regarding one's own personal status .
the concept covering the mental health conditions experienced by transgender people ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the science and practice of protecting and improving the health of a community ,  as by preventive medicine ,  health education ,  control of communicable diseases ,  application of sanitary measures ,  and monitoring of environmental hazards .
the concept covering the physical and mental conditions of men .
the concept covering the physical and mental conditions of women .
differences in health outcomes based primarily on ,  or otherwise tied to ,  gender .
a case when one person kills another ,  with the consent of the person being killed .
killing of persons in a systematic fashion .
the systematic killing of members of a specific gender .
killing of a single person belonging to any of various family member roles .
killing of a child within its first year of life .
killing a person willfully and illegally ,  with intent to cause death or serious injury .
the killing of one's parent or parents .
killing of a person whose social class ,  status ,  or rank is above another .
the deliberate killing of a monarch .
the killing of an infant individual by its close relatives usually full or half siblings .
a homicide that is determined by a government system as being non - criminal in nature .
a suicide method in which a suicidal individual deliberately behaves in a threatening manner ,  with intent to provoke a lethal response from a public safety or law enforcement officer .
a collection of efforts to reduce the risk of suicide .
a suicide undertaken with the aid of another person .
a suicide undertaken with the aid of physician or other health professional .
a form of suicide occurring when a group of people simultaneously kill themselves .
a message left behind when a person dies by suicide ,  or intends to die by suicide .
an attempt to commit suicide .
an attempt to commit homicide .
the inability of a person ,  animal or plant to reproduce by natural means .
the study of those hormones ,  and their actions ,  which affect fertility and pregnancy .
a subfield that bridges oncology and reproductive research to explore and expand options for the reproductive future of cancer survivors .
rights affecting transgender people encompassing everything from the prohibition of intersex genital mutilation and inclusive ,  comprehensive intersex health care .
a kind of questionnaire which elucidates aspects of a person's gender role and / or gender role behaviors .
a kind of scale which elucidates aspects of a person's gender role and / or gender role behavior .
an observed value of a variable ,  or in other words "a sign of a presence or absence of the concept being studied" .
quantifiable characteristics of a population which researchers use as supporting evidence for describing the health of a population .
norms ,  criteria ,  standards ,  and other direct qualitative and quantitative measures used in determining the quality of health care .
the minimum acceptable patient care ,  based on statutes ,  court decisions ,  policies ,  or professional guidelines .
international clinical protocols outlining the recommended assessments and treatments regarding transgender and gender non - conforming individuals ,  especially in regard to medical and social gender transition .
the degree to which individuals in an animal population tend to associate in social groups  ( gregariousness )  and form cooperative societies .
the highest level of organization of sociality ,  defined by the following characteristics: cooperative brood care  ( including care of offspring from other individuals )  ,  overlapping generations within a colony of adults ,  and a division of labor into reproductive and non - reproductive groups .
a degree of sociality beyond courtship and mating that lacks any of the characteristics of eusociality .
a form of presociality in which parents care for their young for some length of time .
a kind of presociality including organisms which are communal ,  quasisocial ,  or semisocial .
sociality and / or socialization which is not sexual or romantic in nature ,  as practiced between those of the different sex or gender .
disability identity refers to the particular disabilities with which an individual identifies .
a term for a person with a combination of disabilities ,  for instance ,  someone with both a sensory disability and a motor disability .
a disability caused perinatally .
a disability caused postnatally .
a disability caused prenatally .
a disability or impairment primarily affecting motor function .
a disability or impairment primarily affecting the senses .
a disability or impairment primarily affecting fine motor function .
a disability or impairment primarily affecting gross motor function .
severe or complete loss of motor function in the lower extremities and lower portions of the trunk .
severe or complete loss of motor function in all four limbs which may result from brain diseases ;  spinal cord diseases ;  peripheral nervous system diseases ;  neuromuscular diseases ;  or rarely muscular diseases .
a decreased magnitude of the sensory perception of sound .
visual impairment  ( or vision impairment )  is vision loss  ( of a person )  to such a degree as to qualify as an additional support need through a significant limitation of visual capability resulting from either disease ,  trauma ,  or congenital or degenerative conditions that cannot be corrected by conventional means ,  such as refractive correction ,  medication ,  or surgery .
a broad concept encompassing various intellectual or cognitive deficits ,  including intellectual disability ,  deficits too mild to properly qualify as intellectual disability ,  various specific conditions  ( such as specific learning disability )  ,  and problems acquired later in life through acquired brain injuries or neurodegenerative diseases like dementia .
subnormal intellectual functioning which originates during the developmental period .
impairment of certain skills such as reading or writing ,  coordination ,  self - control ,  or attention that interfere with the ability to learn .
disabilities in which there is a delay in development based on that expected for a given age level or stage of development .
any of various long - term conditions attributed to impairment of the brain and / or neuromuscular system .
a writing disorder that involves a deficiency in the ability to write where the writing is distorted or incorrect ,  spelling difficulty ,  poor handwriting or trouble putting thoughts on paper .
a learning disability involving a math disability can cause such difficulties as learning math concepts  ( such as quantity ,  place value ,  and time )  ,  difficulty memorizing math facts ,  difficulty organizing numbers ,  and understanding how problems are organized on the page .
a reading disorder resulting from a developmental reading disability involving the inability to process graphic symbols resulting in impairment of reading ability .
the economic and social conditions that influence individual and group differences in health status .
a name that a person or group assumes for a particular purpose ,  which can differ from their first or true name  ( orthonym )  .
another person's name used as a pseudonym by the author of a work .
a name chosen by a person for themself .
a name used by many different people to protect anonymity .
a pseudonym shared by two or more persons ,  such as coauthors of a work .
a familiar ,  invented given name for a person or thing used instead of the actual name of the person or thing .
a term of endearment such as a pet name .
the name by which a person is normally identified in conversation .
a nickname  ( often replacing a person's first name )  used to express fondness or familiarity  ( especially in romantic and / or sexual relationships )  .
a fictitious name used by an author in place of their actual name .
a pseudonym used for internet communications .
the pseudonym of an entertainer .
a person's identification on an individual computer system .
pseudonyms used during wars .
a surname that is more than one word ,  being typically two words .
a surname which contain a hyphen ,  usually between two surnames .
cultural identity is the  ( feeling of )  identity of a group or culture ,  or of an individual as far as they are influenced by their belonging to a group or culture .
bicultural identity is the condition of being oneself regarding the combination of two cultures .
an ethnic identity is the identification with a certain ethnicity ,  usually on the basis of a presumed common genealogy or ancestry .
national identity is an ethical and philosophical concept whereby all humans are divided into groups called nations .
identification with a profession ,  exhibited by an aligning of roles ,  responsibilities ,  values ,  and ethical standards as accepted by the profession .
a religious identity is the set of beliefs and practices generally held by an individual ,  involving adherence to codified beliefs and rituals and study of ancestral or cultural traditions ,  writings ,  history ,  and mythology ,  as well as faith and mystic experience .
the identity formed by integration of one's life experiences into an internalized ,  evolving story of the self that provides the individual with a sense of unity and purpose in life .
a numerical identifier .
a number used by the governments of many countries as a means of tracking their citizens ,  permanent residents ,  and temporary residents for the purposes of work ,  taxation ,  government benefits ,  health care ,  and other governmentally - related functions .
a numeric password used in the process of authenticating a user accessing a system .
a form of argument that attempts to establish a claim by showing that the opposite scenario would lead to absurdity or contradiction .
erroneously attempting to make a reasonable argument into an absurd one ,  by taking the argument to the extremes .
an appeal to extremes which compares gender and sexual minorities to someone who self - identifies as an attack helicopter .
the act of deceiving or the fact of being deceived .
the act of pretending to have beliefs ,  opinions ,  virtues ,  feelings ,  qualities ,  or standards that one does not actually have .
sexual suggestiveness is visual ,  verbal ,  written or behavioral material or action with sexual undertones implying sexual intent in order to provoke sexual arousal .
a social and sexual behavior involving spoken or written communication ,  as well as body language ,  by one person to another ,  either to suggest interest in a deeper relationship with the other person ,  or if done playfully ,  for amusement .
nightclub - like establishments which attracted feminine clientele  ( gay men and drag queens ,  and transgender women ,  as we would contemporarily refer to them )  .
a concise ,  terse ,  laconic ,  and / or memorable expression of a general truth or principle .
a concise ,  memorable ,  and usually philosophical aphorism that communicates an important truth derived from experience ,  custom ,  or both ,  and that many people consider true and credible because of its longeval tradition ,  i .e .
an adage which states that once bigotry enters a given community ,  said community will eventually place significance in the shape of human skulls .
the sequence of nucleotide residues along an rna or dna chain .
the sequence of nucleotide residues along a dna chain .
the sequence of nucleotide residues along an rna chain .
a protein acid sequence is the character representation of the molecular structure of a protein .
groups that advocate for civil liberties .
groups that advocate for civil rights .
a group that advocates for intersex persons .
a defined grouping of transfeminine persons ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of transmasculine persons ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of nonbinary persons ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a defined grouping of transgender lesbians ,  organizations ,  and subcultures ,  united by a common culture and social movements .
a community of persons ,  typically of african descent ,  classed based on the social construction of race primarily prevalent in europe and the americas .
a community of persons who belong to an ethnic group of americans with total or partial ancestry from any of the black racial groups of africa .
any of various communities of afro - american lgbtqia +  persons .
any of various communities of black lgbtqia +  persons .
a usually urban geographic location with generally recognized boundaries wherein a relatively large number of lgbtqia +  persons might live and work .
any of various cultures of indigenous peoples .
any of various lgbtqia +  subcultures specific to indigenous peoples .
any of various lgbtqia +  subcultures specific to american indian peoples .
any of various lgbtqia +  subcultures specific to first nations peoples .
any of various lgbtqia +  subcultures specific to native hawaiian peoples .
the culture of a particular nation or state .
a set of the practices ,  beliefs ,  and objects that are dominant or prevalent in a society at a given point in time .
a family where at least one parent has children that are not genetically related to the other spouse or partner .
adoption wherein a parent does not meet the child before adopting .
a form of adoption in which the biological and adoptive families have access to varying degrees of each other's personal information and have an option of contact .
families having members who belong to any of various sexual minorities .
families having members who belong to any of various gender and / or sexual minorities .
families having members who belong to any of various gender minorities .
parents with lgbtqia +  identities .
parents who are of the same sex or gender .
parents who are of a different sex or gender .
parents who are gay men .
parents who are lesbians .
a parent or parents that are transgender .
hate groups or sites which act primarily through means of the internet or recruit mainly through the internet .
hate groups associated with particular religious beliefs ,  i .e .
sexual minority youth that are multiethnic .
legal dissolution of an officially recognized marriage relationship .
divorce in which the involved persons are of the same sex or gender .
divorce in which the involved persons are of dfferent sexes or genders .
an association for and by retired persons .
organizations which provide health services .
organizations which provide hiv / aids services .
a medieval european conception of noble and chivalrous love ,  generally secret and between members of the nobility .
romance is an emotional feeling of love for ,  or a strong attraction towards ,  another person ,  and the courtship behaviors undertaken by an individual to express those overall feelings and resultant emotions .
study of social phenomena which characterize the learned ,  shared ,  and transmitted social activities of particular ethnic groups with focus on the causes ,  consequences ,  and complexities of human social and cultural variability .
study of the ancient and recent human or animal past through material remains .
a method of studying past societies through their material culture by closely examining the social construction of gender identities and relations .
stories ,  books ,  magazines ,  and poems that are made for children .
the creation of an ideal world as the setting for a novel .
a classical japanese dance - drama .kabuki theatre is known for the stylization of its drama and for the elaborate make - up worn by some of its performers .
histories of black persons in relationship to the social construction of race ,  race discrimination ,  the african slave trade ,  and the african diaspora .
any of a group of semitic - originated religious communities of faith that claim descent from the judaism of the ancient israelites and the worship of the god of abraham .
the religion stemming from the life ,  teachings ,  and death of jesus christ: the religion that believes in god as the father almighty who works redemptively through the holy spirit for men's salvation and that affirms jesus christ as lord and savior who proclaimed to man the gospel of salvation .
the monotheistic religion of the jews based on the teachings of the hebrew scriptures  ( torah )  .
a monotheistic religion promulgated by the prophet mohammed with allah as the deity .
the second - largest form of christianity with a total of 800 million to 1 billion adherents worldwide or about 37% of all christians .
the largest christian church ,  with approximately 1 .3 billion baptised catholics worldwide as of 2017 .
a worldwide ,  trans - denominational movement within protestant christianity which maintains the belief that the essence of the gospel consists of the doctrine of salvation by grace ,  solely through faith in jesus's atonement .
one of the largest branches of protestantism that identifies with the teachings of martin luther ,  a 16th - century german reformer .
a movement of protestant christian denominations whose origins lie in the life and ministry of john wesley .
a part of the reformed tradition within protestantism ,  which traces its origins to britain ,  particularly scotland .
a major branch of protestantism that follows the theological tradition and forms of christian practice set down by john calvin and other reformation - era theologians .
a historical christian movement generally united by their belief in the ability of each human being to experientially access the light within ,  or "that of god in every one" .
a western christian tradition which has developed from the practices ,  liturgy ,  and identity of the church of england following the english reformation .
the belief that christianity has been or should be restored along the lines of what is known about the apostolic early church ,  which restorationists see as the search for a purer and more ancient form of the religion .
the predominant religious tradition of the latter day saint movement of restorationist christianity started by joseph smith in western new york in the 1820s and 1830s .
a belief system ,  historically originating in south asia ,  based on the core concept of dharma .
the world's fourth - largest religion with over 520 million followers ,  or over 7% of the global population ,  known as buddhists .
the world's third largest religion .
an ancient indian religion .followers of jainism are called "jains" ,  a word derived from the sanskrit word jina  ( victor )  referring to the path of victory in crossing over life's stream of rebirths by destroying karma through an ethical and spiritual life .
an indian monotheistic religion that originated in the punjab region of the indian subcontinent around the end of the 15th century .
a group of religions which make use of the concept of tao  ( in chinese )  or dō  ( in japanese or korean )  .
a philosophical or religious tradition of chinese origin which emphasises living in harmony with the dao .
a system of thought and behavior originating in ancient china .
a religion originating from japan .
a person considered a eunuch who has been castrated to serve a specific social function .
a male who has been castrated ,  especially a male whose testicles have been removed before puberty in order to retain his boyish voice .
gay men employed as sex workers or otherwise engaged in sex work .
lesbians employed as sex workers or otherwise engaged in sex work .
bisexual persons employed as sex workers or otherwise engaged in sex work .
a person who dances ,  usually as a job or profession .
a person who has some association with religion in some sense ,  including those that refrain from religion  ( atheists and agnostics ,  among others )  .
children whose parents have any of various lgbtqia +  identities .
a form of hormone therapy in which estrogen hormones are replaced .
sex as determined by hormone levels ,  typically gonadocorticoids such as androgens ,  estrogens ,  and progestogens  ( depending on the organism in question )  .
a glossary of terms related to bdsm and / or bdsm culture .
a glossary of terms related to polyamory and / or polyamory culture .
a melanoma that arises usually from the breast skin and less often from the breast glandular tissue .
a medieval and early modern monarchy in western europe .
a republic founded on 22 september 1792 during the french revolution .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the latina lesbian community .
any of various political ideologies which focus upon sexuality - specific identities .
the sexual political philosophies of michel foucault ,  characterized primarily by the escape of the "confessional" structure of sexuality .
a gay male subculture consisting of gay men who self - identify as "chubs" and those that pursue them in sexual and / or romantic relationships  ( "chubby chasers" )  .
a gay male subculture of persons who self - identify as bears ,  i .e .
oppression caused by the arrangement of society benefitting a group at the expense of another .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the latino gay male community .
any of various communities associated with the leather subculture .
a clear or white discharge from the vagina ,  consisting mainly of mucus .
any of various sexual interactions in which two or more people ,  or a person and a virtual character or characters ,  gather together via some communicatoin format and sexually arouse one another .
virtual sex in the form of speech over telephone .
virtual sex interactions via any written form of communication ,  such as letters or text messages .
any of various virtual sexual interactions performed via computer .
virtual sex interactions accomplished via the internet or some other computer network .
any of various virtual sex activites accomplished via a virtual reality headset or virtual reality in general .
technology which allows for remote mutual masturbation .
mutual masturbation assisted by teledildonic devices .
a lesion which occurs as the result of mechanical trauma .
an unnatural tract or ulcer .
a small tear in the thin ,  moist tissue  ( mucosa )  that lines the anus .
a consumer product used for personal hygiene or for beautification .
substances intended to be applied to the human body for cleansing ,  beautifying ,  promoting attractiveness ,  or altering the appearance without affecting the body's structure or functions .
any of various cosmetics that are applied to the face to enhance one's appearance .
any of various makeup products applied to the face .
any of various makeup products applied to the area of the face around the eye ,  the eyelashes ,  or the eyebrows .
any of various makeup products applied to the lips .
any of various makeup products applied to the cheeks .
a cosmetic product used to define and line the eyes .
a cosmetic product applied on the eyelids and under the eyes to add depth and dimension ,  complement their color ,  make them appear larger ,  or to simply draw attention to them .
a cosmetic product applied to the lips for color ,  texture ,  and / or protection .
a cosmetic product used primarily to give the lips a glossy luster or to add a subtle color to them .
a cosmetic substance used on the eyelashes .
a system which centers upon and naturalizes heterosexuality ,  a binary gender system ,  and on maleness being ascribed more value than femaleness .
a condition in which an animal displays physical characteristics which are female and male ,  in varying proportions .
gynandromorphism in which one half of the organism's body is female and the other half is male .
phantom pain which mimics menstrual cramping .
a marriage performed ,  recorded and recognized by a government official .
the minimum age at which a person is allowed by law to marry ,  either as a right or subject to parental ,  judicial or other forms of approval .
a marriage or similar union ,  formal or informal ,  between an adult and a child or youth under a certain age ,  typically age eighteen .
a situation in which two adolescents ,  ranging in age from 13 to 19 ,  who are joined in marriage .
a ceremony during which two or more people are united in marriage .
a wedding that is arranged to avoid embarrassment due to premarital sex possibly leading to an unintended pregnancy ,  rather than out of the desire of the participants .
a marriage which takes place between two or more legal adults .
marriages organized by the age or ages of the participants .
a type of marriage where the partners at the outset agree to adhere to a model of shared responsibility for earning money ,  meeting the needs of children ,  doing household chores ,  and taking recreation time in near equal fashion across these four domains .
a legal framework in a limited number of jurisdictions where a couple is legally considered married ,  without that couple having formally registered their relation as a civil or religious marriage .
marriage between two family members who are second cousins or closer .
a marriage with a parent’s sibling or with one’s sibling’s child .
a marriage where the partners are cousins  ( i .e .
a marriage in which participants are from a specific social group .
a marriage in which participants are from different social groups .
a marriage in which participants are from different countries .
a marriage in which participants are from different religious backgrounds .
a marriage in which participants are from different races or racialized ethnicities .
a marriage in which participants are from different ethnic groups .
any of various behaviors related to different aspects of romance ,  romantic love ,  romantic orientation ,  or romantic identity .
a political philosophy is the recognition and affirmation of diversity within a political body ,  which permits the peaceful coexistence of different interests ,  identities ,  convictions ,  and ways of living .
a term used when smaller groups within a larger society maintain their unique cultural identities ,  and their values and practices are accepted by the wider dominant culture provided they are consistent with the laws and values of the wider society .
a type of pluralism in which various ethnic groups collaborate and enter into a dialogue with one another without having to sacrifice their particular identities .
support for cross - cultural dialogue and challenging self - segregation tendencies within cultures .
the co - existence ,  to varying degrees ,  of two originally distinct cultures .
the rate of application of a dose ,  a quantity  ( in units of energy / mass )  often used in nutrition ,  medicine ,  and toxibology .
a sub - therapeutic dose of some substance or drug in order to study its behavior ;  alternatively ,  a small ,  precise dose of a drug in order to subdue its potent effects  ( such as psychedelic microdosage )  .
a microdosage of a psychedelic substance ;  usually administered semi - recreationally as an attempt to improve creativity ,  boost physical energy level ,  emotional balance ,  increase performance on problems - solving tasks and to treat anxiety ,  depression and addiction .
a lower dosage of hormone replacement therapy sometimes utilized by transgender persons for various reasons .
detection of an external or internal stimulation by some sensory process .
the experience of involuntary sensory cross activation where the presentation of a particular stimulus elicits a secondary sensory - perceptual experience .
subjective cutaneous sensations  ( e .g . ,  cold ,  warmth ,  tingling ,  pressure ,  etc . ) 
a tingling sensation that typically begins on the scalp and moves down the back of the neck and upper spine .
erotica which uses autonomous sensory meridian response as a form of sexual arousal .
a psychophysiological response to auditory and / or visual stimuli that often induces a pleasurable or otherwise positively - valenced affective state and transient paresthesia  ( skin tingling or chills )  ,  sometimes along with piloerection  ( goose bumps )  and mydriasis  ( pupil dilation )  .
groups of persons whose range of options is severely limited ,  who are frequently subjected to coercion in their decision making ,  or who may be compromised in their ability to give informed consent .
a population displaying some breadth of some time of diversity  ( cultural ,  ethnic ,  racial ,  gender ,  sexual ,  etc .
a term sometimes used to distinguish anatomically modern homo sapiens from archaic homo sapiens varieties from the middle and lower paleolithic with transitional features .
a term for the earliest populations of anatomically modern humans in europe ,  during the upper paleolithic .
common name for an extinct species of the homo genus .
an extinct species or subspecies of archaic human that ranged across asia during the lower and middle paleolithic  ( potentially surviving as late as 30–14 , 500 years ago in new guinea )  .
the process by which lgbtqia +  people meet ,  relate and become integrated in the lgbtqia +  community ,  especially with people of the same sexual orientation and gender identity ,  helping to build their own identity as well .
an early 2000s subculture in the united states and brazil ,  composed of men who have sex with men but do not identify as gay ,  bisexual ,  or pansexual .
a gay male subculture prevalent in 18th and early 19th century england ,  especially in london .
any individual employed by an organization or institution as a point of contact ,  serving as both a spokesperson for the organization to a local lgbtqia +  demographics as well as a representative of lgbtqia +  interests to the leaders of the organization .
a community of twitter  ( or ,  more generally ,  internet )  users that post opinions related to music ,  celebrities ,  tv shows ,  movies and social media .
an lgbtqia +  and youth - based subculture with distinct styles ,  behaviors ,  and interests .
a distinct community and subculture of lgbtqia +  persons who are deaf or experience deafness .
an lgbtqia +  subculture which has emerged due to the various social phenomena associated with the internet .
afro - american persons who are lgbtqia +  .
afro - canadian persons who are lgbtqia +  .
afro - caribbean persons who are lgbtqia +  .
afro - european persons who are lgbtqia +  .
latinx persons categorized by nationality .
latinx persons categorized by gender .
latinx persons who are lgbtqia +  .
a latinx person with black african ancestry .
an afro - latinx person who is lgbtqia +  .
awareness about aids .
periodicals devoted to publishing information or content pertaining to hiv / aids .
journals devoted to publishing research pertaining to hiv / aids .
a form of casual sex between people who have very little or no history with each other ,  often engaging in sexual activity on the same day of their meeting and usually never seeing each other again afterwards .
artists that are lgbtqia +  .
an artist who is a lesbian .
an artist who is a gay man .
an artist who is bisexual .
an artist who is transgender .
people who descend from a portion of asia's population .
asian persons who are lgbtqia +  .
americans of asian ancestry who are lgbtqia +  .
a person who does not practice a religion ,  is indifferent to religion ,  or actively rejects religion in general .
a person who does not believe in the existence of deities ;  a person who believes there are no deities .
atheists who are lgbtqia +  .
any of various forms of sexual stimulation of the anus .
the act of apprehending a person and taking them into custody ,  usually because they have been suspected of committing a crime .
arrests of persons who are lgbtqia +  .
opposition to some or all forms of feminism .
a chosen family structure common in ball culture and the ballroom scene .
a library that covers lgbtqia +  topics .
a library that covers transgender topics .
a library that covers lesbian topics .
a library that covers gay male topics .
a library that covers bisexual topics .
rights affecting bisexual people .
newspaper pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
black persons who are lgbtqia +  .
any of various forms of sexual stimulation of the clitoris .
any of various websites hosting online dating services .
families having members who are lgbtqia +  .
castration which is involuntary ,  i .e .
a person who identifies as pangender ,  i .e .
any of various penetrative and non - penetrative sex acts involving the penis .
dilation of the vagina .
a person who identifies as trigender .
a sex film involving transgender people which does not usually claim any artistic merit .
stories ,  books ,  magazines ,  etc .
stories ,  books ,  magazines ,  etc .
a person who has a parent who is transgender .
any of various techniques of artificial insemination which do not require the assistance of a medical practitioner .
an afro - american person who is bisexual .
a child who is bisexual .
an adherent of christianity .
an adherent of judaism or a member or descendant of the jewish people .
an adherent of islam .
an adherent of buddhism .
lgbtq people who are buddhist .
lgbtq people who are muslim .
lgbtq people who are jewish .
lgbtq people who are christian .
a transgender person who is buddhist .
the use of any of various recreational substances or drugs .
a drug used for personal enjoyment rather than for medicinal purposes .
the process during which a specific antibody develops and becomes detectable in the blood .
the process during which an hiv antibody develops and becomes detectable in the blood .
a man who has been circumcised .
a man who has not been circumcised .
a penis which has not been circumcised .
a penis which has been circumcised .
a gag used in sexual bondage and bdsm roleplay .
usually ,  a rubber or silicone sphere with a strap passing through its diameter .
reflexes associated with any of the various cranial nerves .
a reflex contraction of the back of the throat ,  evoked by touching the roof of the mouth ,  the back of the tongue ,  the area around the tonsils ,  the uvula ,  and the back of the throat .
a music festival primarily for and by women .
music by women ,  for women ,  and about women .
a library that covers women's topics .
a māori term for a person who be contemporarily may assigned female at birth who embodies a traditionally masculine gender role .
a māori term for a person who may contemporarily be assigned male at birth who embodies a traditionally feminine gender role .
an ethnolinguistic group of closely related peoples who are native to polynesia  ( islands in the polynesian triangle )  ,  an expansive region of oceania in the pacific ocean .
the indigenous polynesian people of new zealand .
bookstores that specialize in serving female readers .
a traditional form of non - sexual same - sex union among kuira women of the mara region of tanzania ;  the partnerships are formed between older ,  usually widowed women without male descendants and younger ,  childless women ,  known as mokamööna  ( daughters in - law )  .
persons organized primarily by their marital status .
a person who has been widowed .
a person who has been raped or otherwise sexually assaulted .
lgbtqia +  persons that are victims of rape and / or sexual assault .
a person who has suffered from any of various forms of sexual abuse .
an afro - canadian person who is bisexual .
an afro - canadian person who is gay .
an afro - canadian person who is transgender .
an afro - canadian man who is gay .
an afro - canadian woman who is a lesbian .
an afro - caribbean person who is bisexual .
an afro - caribbean person who is gay .
an afro - caribbean person who is transgender .
an afro - european person who is bisexual .
an afro - european person who is gay .
an afro - european person who is transgender .
an afro - european person who is a gay man .
an afro - european person who is a lesbian .
an afro - caribbean man who is gay .
an afro - caribbean woman who is a lesbian .
an afro - latinx person who is bisexual .
an afro - latinx person who is gay .
an afro - latinx person who is transgender .
an afro - latino man who is gay .
an afro - latina woman who is a lesbian .
an asian american person who is bisexual .
an asian american man who is gay .
an asian american person who is transgender .
an asian american woman who is a lesbian .
an asian person who is gay .
an asian person who is transgender .
an asian person who is a lesbian .
an asian man who is gay .
an asian person who is bisexual .
a dance style that evolved outside dance studios in any available open space such as streets ,  dance parties ,  block parties ,  parks ,  school yards ,  raves ,  and nightclubs .
dances which have developed "naturally" as a part of "everyday" culture within a particular community .
a social dance and street dance primarily danced to house music ,  that has roots in the clubs of chicago and of new york .
a highly stylized ,  modern house dance originating in the late 1980s that evolved out of the harlem ballroom scene of the 1960s .
a person who has gone through the process of divorce .
a person who is unmarried .
christianity beginning with the ministry of jesus  ( c . 27 - 30 )  and end with the first council of nicaea  ( 325 )  .
christian traditions and churches which developed in the middle east ,  egypt ,  asia minor ,  the far east ,  balkans ,  eastern europe ,  northeastern africa and southern india over several centuries of religious antiquity .
one of two major subdivisions of christianity ,  composed of catholicism ,  protestantism ,  and their offshoots ,  including restorationism .
a form of christianity that rejects the mainstream christian doctrine of the trinity—the teaching that god is three distinct hypostases or persons who are coeternal ,  coequal ,  and indivisibly united in one being ,  or essence  ( from the greek ousia )  .
a form of protestantism formed as a mix of protestant movements imported to russia by missionaries mixed with folk traditions .
a sect within the larger spiritual christianity movement in the russian empire ,  best known for practicing castration of men and the mastectomy of women in accordance with their teachings against sexual lust .
a young person who is heterosexual .
a parent of a gay person .
a parent of a bisexual person .
a parent of a lesbian .
a parent of a gay man .
persons who are partners of lgbtqia +  persons .
partners who are lgbtqia +  .
a loosely defined category of recreational drugs which are associated with discothèques in the 1970s and nightclubs ,  dance clubs ,  electronic dance music parties ,  and raves from the 1980s to today .
surgical removal of the penis .
surgical removal of part or all of the penis .
lgbtqia +  persons who are part of and / or are employed by the military .
a bisexual person who is part of and / or is employed by the military .
a gay man who is part of and / or is employed by the military .
a lesbian who is part of and / or is employed by the military .
an intersex person who is part of and / or is employed by the military .
a sex film involving lgbtqia +  people which does not usually claim any artistic merit .
a sex film involving bisexual people which does not usually claim any artistic merit .
a person who is married .
therapeutic procedures organized by anatomical site ,  system ,  or location .
therapeutic procedures performed on parts of the gastrointestinal system .
therapeutic procedures performed on parts of the large intestine .
the word enema can refer to the liquid so injected ,  as well as to a device for administering such an injection .
a khmer term for a culturally specific gender identity considered intermediate between pros  ( ប្រុស ,  male )  and srey  ( ស្រី ,  female )  .
a term in khmer used to refer to a man who acts and dresses stereotypically masculine and engages in sexual activities with other men ,  but is typically married to a woman and does not usually exclusively have sex with men .
a khmer term describing a cambodian person assigned male at person who identifies as female ,  occupies a more stereotypically feminine gender role ,  and who may use hormones or surgery to feminize their appearance .
a khmer term describing a cambodian person assigned male at person who identifies as female ,  occupies a more stereotypically feminine gender role ,  and who may use hormones or surgery to feminize their appearance .
one of five gender categories observed in bugis culture .
one of five gender categories observed in bugis culture .
one of five gender categories observed in bugis culture .
a person who dresses and acts in a feminine manner who is devoted to the goddess yellamma in karnataka and may be contemporarily considered assigned male at birth .
in warao culture ,  a person who may contemporarily be considered assigned male at birth who occupies a mostly female gender role ,  is said to possess two spirits ,  and may assume a sociocultural role as a shaman .
in thai culture ,  an assigned female at birth person who is gay or bisexual and dresses and acts in a stereotypically masculine fashion .
in thai culture ,  an assigned female at birth person who is gay or bisexual and follows outward thai gender norms .
a tom who is attracted to heterosexual women ,  other toms ,  and dees .
the most numerous ethnic group of the three major linguistic and ethnic groups of south sulawesi  ( the others being makassar and toraja )  ,  in the southwestern province of sulawesi ,  third largest island of indonesia .
a navajo person who is part of a certain non - binary masculine gender role in those communities and who may ,  in modern times ,  be assigned female at birth .
an odia term for a cultural identity similar to hijra observed in the indian state of odisha .
a sindhi term for a cultural identity similar to hijra observed in the sindh region of northern india .
a punjabi term for a cultural identity similar to hijra observed in northwest india and eastern pakistan .
a kannada term for a cultural identity similar to hijra observed in karnataka in southwestern india .
a telugu term for a cultural identity similar to hijra observed in the indian states of andhra pradesh ,  telangana ,  and the union territory of puducherry .
a gujarati term for a cultural identity similar to hijra observed in the indian state of gujarat .
a tattoo which has no specific meaning ;  a tattoo which is purely aesthetic in nature .
a tattoo which is a depiction of a specific person or item .
a tattoo with a specific meaning pertinent to the wearer .
erotic massage which incorporates elements from the neotantric movement in the western world massages the primary erogenous zones of the body ,  those being the mouth ,  the phallus  ( penis )  ,  the vagina ,  and the anus .
a movement which aims to innovate or reform a religion or belief system ;  alternatively ,  a movement which is characterized as the emergence of a new religion or belief system .
a religious or spiritual group that has modern origins and is peripheral to its society's dominant religious culture .
a term applied to a range of spiritual or religious beliefs and practices that grew rapidly in europe and the united states during the 1970s .
a contemporary european and american variation of tantra associated with new religious movements .
an indigenous amerindian people inhabiting northeastern venezuela ,  trinidad and tobago ,  guyana ,  and suriname .
public locations where members of a community tend to gather for group activities ,  social support ,  public information ,  and other purposes .
public locations where members of the lgbtqia +  community tend to gather for group activities ,  social support ,  public information ,  and other purposes .
public locations where women tend to gather for group activities ,  social support ,  public information ,  and other purposes .
beaches ,  both natural and man - made ,  used for bathing and other activities .
beaches that are popular within the lgbtqia +  community or any of its various subcultures .
a beach where visitors are at liberty to be nude .
a person who has suffered from any of various crimes .
a person who has suffered from any of various hate crimes .
a person who is a victim of an anti - lgbtqia +  motivated hate crime .
a person who is a victim of an anti - transgender motivated hate crime .
a person who is a victim of an anti - lesbian motivated hate crime .
a person who is a victim of an anti - gay motivated hate crime .
a person who is a victim of an anti - bisexual motivated hate crime .
a colorless or blue form of methamphetamine that takes the shape of crystals and is typically smoked .
the purified ,  alkaloidal ,  extra - potent form of cocaine .
a group of chemical compounds based upon the molecular structure r - ono .
any of various services or businesses which provide pornographic material .
older persons who are lgbtqia +  .
an older person who is bisexual .
a group which advocates for any of various sexual reforms .
the study of victimization ,  including the psychological effects on victims ,  relationships between victims and offenders ,  the interactions between victims and the criminal justice system—that is ,  the police and courts ,  and corrections officials—and the connections between victims and other social groups and institutions ,  such as the media ,  businesses ,  and social movements .
a right bestowed onto a person by a given legal system .
rights that are not dependent on the laws or customs of any particular culture or government ,  and so are universal and inalienable .
legal rights afforded to victims of crime .
legal rights afforded to lgbtqia +  victims of crime .
a person who practices occultism or any of its various associated practices .
a person who uses magic .
a change in location or position .
the act ,  process ,  or result of a whole body or any of its parts passing from one place or position to another .
a change of place or position of part of an organism that does not involve the entire organism .
the act of moving any of the tissues and hard structures surrounding the mouth other than teeth ,  jaws or filter structures .
the act of displacing part or all of the tongue from its current position .
the act of stroking or touching with the tongue .
licking which is sexual in nature .
the act of displacing part or all of the jaw from its current position .
the act of seizing with teeth or jaws an object or organism so as to grip or break the surface covering .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a drug prescribed for andrological use ;  that is ,  for an affected area or areas studied primarily in andrology .
any of various drugs used to treat erectile dysfunction .
an ethnic group of the mambasa territory ,  ituri interim administration in the orientale province on the democratic republic of the congo  ( formerly zaire )  .
a subculture based around a particular kind of body modification or modifications .
an extreme body modification subculture made up mostly of men who have had their genitals  ( and sometimes also their nipples )  surgically removed .
a person who has been put through any of various kinds of gay and / or transgender conversion therapies .
a lesbian who is part of the working class .
a woman who is part of the working class .
a relationship between a bisexual man and a woman of any sexual orientation .
a gay man who is white .
literature pertaining especially to two - spirit persons and / or culture .
a transgender person who is a student .
a transgender person who is a librarian .
a transgender person who is a student at a college or university .
a transgender person who is a teacher .
a transgender person who is a police officer .
a transgender person who is a musician .
a transgender person who is a college teacher .
the extension of lesbian feminism into theoretical ,  fictional ,  or philosophical discourse .
relations between heterosexual persons and lesbians ,  often tied to cultural or social attitudes .
relations between heterosexual persons and gay men ,  often tied to cultural or social attitudes .
relations between heterosexual persons and bisexual persons ,  often tied to cultural or social attitudes .
a south asian american man who is gay .
a transgender person who is a singer .
someone who advocates for lesbian rights .
musicians that are lgbtqia +  .
actors that are lgbtqia +  .
a musician who is a lesbian .
a musician who is a gay man .
a musician who is bisexual .
dance parties specific to the lgbtq community and lgbtq people .
a person engaged in the practice of anthropology .
anthropologists that are lgbtqia +  .
an anthropologist who is a lesbian .
an anthropologist who is a gay man .
a person who helps students to acquire knowledge ,  competence or virtue .
a person who is a teacher at a college or university .
college teachers that are lgbtqia +  .
a college teacher who is a lesbian .
teachers that are lgbtqia +  .
a person who is a student at a primary school .
a person who is a student at a secondary school .
lgbtqia +  persons who are students at a secondary school .
a lesbian who is a student at a secondary school .
a gay man who is a student at a secondary school .
a bisexual person who is a student at a secondary school .
a transgender person who is a student at a secondary school .
lgbtqia +  persons who are authors .
a lesbian who is an author .
cartoonists who are lgbtqia +  .
a lesbian who is a cartoonist .
an athlete who is a lesbian .
an actor who is a lesbian .
students who are lgbtqia +  .
a student who is a lesbian .
an actor who is bisexual .
an actor who is transgender .
an actor who is a gay man .
entertainers who are lgbtqia +  .
historians who are lgbtqia +  .
models who are lgbtqia +  .
nurses who are lgbtqia +  .
physicians who are lgbtqia +  .
scientists who are lgbtqia +  .
writers who are lgbtqia +  .
novelists who are lgbtqia +  .
actors in pornographic films who are lgbtqia +  .
clergy who are lgbtqia +  .
fashion designers who are lgbtqia +  .
journalists who are lgbtqia +  .
noble persons who are lgbtqia +  .
an actor in pornographic films who is bisexual
an actor in pornographic films who is a gay man .
an actor in pornographic films who is a lesbian .
an actor in pornographic films who is transgender .
poets who are lgbtqia +  .
a gay man who is an author .
police officers who are lgbtqia +  .
a lesbian who is a police officer .
a bisexual person who is an atheist .
a transgender person who is an atheist .
a gay man who is an atheist .
a lesbian who is an atheist .
a bisexual person who is buddhist .
a lesbian who is buddhist .
a gay man who is buddhist .
stories ,  books ,  magazines ,  etc .
stories ,  books ,  magazines ,  etc .
stories ,  books ,  magazines ,  etc .
stories ,  books ,  magazines ,  etc .
any of various cultures associated with working class lgbtqia +  persons .
any of various cultures associated with working class lesbians .
any of various cultures associated with working class gay men .
a luchador  ( male wrestler )  who fights and performs in drag .
pornographic magazines produced for an lgbtqia +  audience .
pornographic magazines produced for a gay male audience .
pornographic magazines produced for a lesbian audience .
a form of tourism marketed to lgbtqia +  people .
a form of tourism marketed to transgender people .
an honor or reward striven for in a competitive contest ;  anything offered to be competed for ,  or as an inducement to ,  or reward of ,  effort .
something given to a recipient as a token of recognition of excellence in a certain field .
awards related to the lgbtqia +  community ,  lgbtqia +  persons ,  and other lgbtqia +  topic areas .
a film award related to lgbtqia +  persons or culture .
a television award related to lgbtqia +  persons or culture .
a literary award related to lgbtqia +  persons or culture .
a pornographic film award related to lgbtqia +  persons or culture .
literary festivals focused on lgbtq culture and / or persons .
a large dance party attended primarily by gay men ;  similar to a rave ,  but with a music selection more closely tied to gay male culture .
dance parties originating in the 1940s and 1950s where lgbtqia +  persons could socialize .
music festivals focused on lgbtq culture and / or persons .
any of various events celebrating lesbian ,  gay ,  bisexual ,  transgender and queer  ( lgbtq )  social and self - acceptance ,  achievements ,  legal rights and pride .
poetry by or otherwise relating to lgbtqia +  persons .
poetry by or otherwise relating to gay men .
poetry by or otherwise relating to lesbians .
poetry by or otherwise relating to bisexual persons .
poetry by or otherwise relating to transgender persons .
a person who has suffered as a direct result of war .
a person who has been killed or injured in war ,  including both military personnel and civilians .
lgbtqia +  persons who are war victims .
lgbtqia +  persons who are victims of sexual abuse .
a bisexual person who is christian .
a lesbian who is christian .
a gay man who is christian .
a member of the clergy who is bisexual .
a member of the clergy who is transgender .
a member of the clergy who is a lesbian .
a member of the clergy who is a gay man .
a bisexual person who is jewish .
a gay man who is jewish .
a lesbian who is jewish .
a bisexual person who is muslim .
a gay man who is muslim .
a lesbian who is muslim .
a retailer that sells products related to sexual or erotic entertainment ,  such as vibrators ,  lingerie ,  clothing ,  pornography ,  and other related products .
a venue wherein any of various types of artwork are displayed and / or performed .
a venue wherein any of various types of artwork are performed .
a venue wherein any of various types of theatre are performed .
a building that contains auditoria for viewing films  ( also called movies )  for entertainment .
a venue wherein any of various types of dance are performed .
an entertainment venue and bar that usually operates late into the night .
an entertainment venue and bar for and by lgbtqia +  persons that usually operates late into the night .
a movie theatre specifically designed for the exhibition of pornographic films .
a movie theatre specifically designed for the exhibition of gay male pornographic films .
a strategy for the improvement of sexual function and treatment of sexual dysfunction .
a form of therapy in which two or more patients participate under the guidance of one or more psychotherapists for the purpose of treating emotional disturbances ,  social maladjustments ,  and psychotic states .
psychotherapy used for either unmarried couples or married couples ,  of mixed or same sex .
a form of psychotherapy involving both spouses and directed to improving the marital relationship .
counseling used for either unmarried couples / partners or married couples / partners ,  of mixed or same sex .
a form of counseling involving both spouses and directed to improving the marital relationship .
a form of counseling in which two or more patients participate under the guidance of one or more counselors for the purpose of treating emotional disturbances ,  social maladjustments ,  and psychotic states .
a form of counseling involving either one or both spouses going through divorce .
the relating of causes to the effects they produce .
the study of causation ,  or origination .
the cause of a disease ,  disorder ,  or other abnormal condition .
a principle that supports the freedom of an individual or a community to articulate their opinions and ideas without fear of retaliation ,  censorship ,  or legal sanction .
an extension of freedom of speech ,  a fundamental human right recognized in international law ,  which is today understood more generally as freedom of expression in any medium ,  be it orally ,  in writing ,  print ,  through the internet or through art forms .
a principle that supports the freedom of an individual or a community to articulate their opinions and ideas without fear of retaliation ,  censorship ,  or legal sanction .
a principle that supports the freedom of an individual or community ,  in public or private ,  to manifest religion or belief in teaching ,  practice ,  worship ,  and observance .
the principle that communication and expression through various media ,  including printed and electronic media ,  especially published materials ,  should be considered a right to be exercised freely .
the act of obfuscating ;  intending to conceal the truth by confusion .
the suppression of speech ,  public communication ,  or other information ,  on the basis that such material is considered objectionable ,  harmful ,  sensitive ,  or "inconvenient ."
a relationship involving some kind of sexual intimacy between two lesbians ,  one identifying as femme and the other identifying as butch .
sexual intercourse used with a dildo attached to a harness for either vaginal or anal penetration .
sexual intercourse used with a dildo attached to a harness for vaginal penetration .
sexual intercourse used with a dildo attached to a harness for anal penetration .
a type of sex toy in the size and shape of a sexual partner for aid in masturbation .
a word mentioned on middle kingdom egyptian  ( 2000 to 1800 bce )  pottery shards found near ancient thebes alongside the words "tai"  ( male )  and "hmt"  ( female )  .
the period in the history of ancient egypt following a period of political division known as the first intermediate period .
a third gender category suggested by remains found in a corded ware burial ground found in a suburb of prague ,  czech republic in april of 2011 .
a recurring assemblage of artifacts from a specific time and place that may constitute the material culture remains of a particular past human society .
any of various archaeological cultures of europe .
any of various archaeological cultures of central europe .
an archaeological culture comprising a broad archaeological horizon of europe between c . 2900 bce – c . 2350 bce ,  thus from the late neolithic ,  through the copper age ,  and ending in the early bronze age .
a culturally specific gender role in some madagasy cultures for persons who may contemporarily be assigned male at birth but occupy a more stereotypically feminine societal role .
an austronesian and southeast african ethnic group native to the island and country of madagascar .
an ethnic group of madagascar .
a gender role and / or identity that is part of samoan culture .
sexual development and behavior in children ,  as influenced by social and cultural aspects .
a person who regards themselves as culturally ,  ethnically ,  or religiously adhering to aspects of hinduism .
lgbtq people who are hindu .
an adherent of shinto .
lgbtq people who are shinto .
a follower of taoism .
lgbtq people who are tao .
acts of physical intimacy in the view of others .
sex workers who engage in phone sex with clients .
medical and nursing care of patients in the terminal stage of an illness .
specialized health care ,  supportive in nature ,  provided to a dying person .
an interdisciplinary medical caregiving approach aimed at optimizing quality of life and mitigating suffering among people with serious ,  complex illness .
terminal care provided for hiv / aids patients .
the branch of philosophy concerned with the theory of knowledge .
a reason or explanation for something as a function of its end ,  purpose ,  or goal .
"the philosophical examination of the central themes and concepts involved in religious traditions" .
the practical application of metaphysics in other disciplines .
the systematic and rational study of concepts of god and of the nature of religious truths ,  or the learned profession acquired by completing specialized training in religious studies ,  usually at a university ,  seminary or school of divinity .
feminist critique of traditional theology and / or theology constructed from a feminist perspective .
lgbtqia +  critique of traditional theology ,  theology constructed from an lgbtqia +  perspective ,  and / or theology constructed through the lens of queer theory .
devices or tools typically used in combat or fighting in order to kill ,  incapacitate ,  or injure .
any weapon used in direct hand - to - hand combat ;  by contrast with ranged weapons which act at a distance .
any weapon that can engage targets beyond hand - to - hand distance ,  i .e .
weapons such as spears ,  pikes and almost all pole weapons .
weapons such as swords ,  axes ,  fighting knives and daggers .
weapons such as clubs ,  maces ,  war hammers ,  staves ,  and flails .
any of various weapons which are flexible in terms of movement such as whips and flails .
a weapon consisting of a striking head attached to a handle by a flexible rope ,  strap ,  or chain .
a tool which was traditionally designed to strike animals or people to aid guidance or exert control over animals or other people ,  through pain compliance or fear of pain ,  although in some activities ,  whips can be used without use of pain ,  such as an additional pressure aid or visual directional cue in equestrianism .
a whip or lash ,  especially a multi - thong type ,  used to inflict severe corporal punishment or self - mortification .
a type of multi - tailed whip that originated as an implement for severe physical punishment ,  notably in the royal navy and british army ,  and also as a judicial punishment in britain and some other countries .
in the context of bdsm ,  a multi - tailed scourge typically made of soft leather .
any of various weapons used in the practice of bdsm .
a branch of feminism that sees environmentalism ,  and the relationship between women and the earth ,  as foundational to its analysis and practice .
circumcision ,  typically of persons with a penis ,  which involves surgery or surgical methods .
any of various surgical procedures performed on the prepuce of the penis or the prepuce of the clitoris .
any of various surgical procedures performed on the prepuce of the penis .
a plastic surgical operation on the prepuce or foreskin of the penis ,  to widen a narrow non - retractile foreskin which cannot comfortably be drawn back off the head of the penis in erection because of a constriction  ( stenosis )  which has not expanded after adolescence .
any of various methods of expanding the skin on the penis to reconstruct an organ similar to the foreskin ,  which has been removed by circumcision or injury .
any of various methods of grafting skin onto the distal portion of the penile shaft for the purpose of restoring the foreskin .
any of various methods of regenerative medical care aiming to restore the foreskin .
deposits of adipose tissue throughout the body .
an implement that has been used for millennia to shape ,  split and cut wood ,  to harvest timber ,  as a weapon ,  and as a ceremonial or heraldic symbol .
an axe with a single blade .
an axe with two blades .
an official location where pieces of political ,  military ,  cultural ,  or social history have been preserved due to their cultural heritage value .
a type of—usually three - dimensional—structure that was explicitly created to commemorate a person or event ,  or which has become relevant to a social group as a part of their remembrance of historic times or cultural heritage ,  due to its artistic ,  historical ,  political ,  technical or architectural importance .
an object or event which serves as a focus for the memory or the commemoration of something ,  usually an influential ,  deceased person or a historical ,  tragic event .
any of various memorials related to lgbtqia +  persons or culture .
any of various memorials related to victims or survivors of hiv / aids .
any of various monuments related to lgbtqia +  persons or culture .
the sense of being 'manly' and self - reliant ,  the concept associated with "a strong sense of masculine pride: an exaggerated masculinity ."
a document issued ,  either by a religious organization or state authority ,  authorizing a couple to marry .
either a document issued by a medical practitioner certifying the deceased state of a person or ,  popularly ,  to a document issued by a person such as a registrar of vital statistics that declares the date ,  location and cause of a person's death as later entered in an official register of deaths .
an official statement that two people are married .
a change in a birth certificate made by correction ,  adding ,  substituting or omitting a certain part .
any document that may be used to prove a person's identity .
an identity document issued by a government or international treaty organization to facilitate the movement of individuals or small groups of people across international boundaries ,  following international agreements .
a travel document ,  usually issued by a country's government to its citizens ,  that certifies the identity and nationality of its holder primarily for the purpose of international travel .
the transfer of active humoral immunity of ready - made antibodies .
therapy designed to induce changes in a patient's immune status in order to treat disease .
induction of passive immunity when high levels of antibodies specific to a pathogen or toxin  ( obtained from humans ,  horses ,  or other animals )  are transferred to non - immune persons through blood products that contain antibodies ,  such as in immunoglobulin therapy or antiserum therapy .
an actor who is employed primarily in the medium of film .
a person who performs sex acts in video that is usually characterized as a pornographic movie .
a place that is generally open and accessible to people .
physical or virtual space such as a social center ,  online social media ,  or other gathering place where people gather and interact .
facilities which are open to ,  or mostly open to ,  the public .
a room or area designated for changing one's clothes .
sex toys meant for ,  or focused on ,  nipple use .
a sex toy which is a clamp that is applied to the nipples of a person of any gender .
a photograph which contains an image of a nude or semi - nude person ,  or an image suggestive of nudity .
the art ,  application and practice of creating durable images by recording light or other electromagnetic radiation ,  either electronically by means of an image sensor ,  or chemically by means of a light - sensitive material such as photographic film .
the creation of any photograph which contains an image of a nude or semi - nude person ,  or an image suggestive of nudity .
a follower of the teachings of confucius ;  a confucian .
lgbtq people who are confucianist .
an adherent of protestantism .
an adherent of catholicism ;  a person who is roman catholic .
lgbtq people who are protestant .
lgbtq people who are catholic .
lgbtq people who are anglican .
lgbtq people who are baptist .
lgbtq people who are calvinist .
lgbtq people who are lutheran .
lgbtq people who are methodist .
lgbtq people who are quakers .
lgbtq people who are restorationist .
lgbtq people who are mormon .
an informal grouping of protestant denominations that contrast in history and practice with evangelical ,  fundamentalist ,  and charismatic protestant denominations .
traditions of protestantism which developed in the 19th century out of a need to adapt christianity to a modern intellectual context .
an international protestant christian denomination .
protestant denominations focused on altering social and religious structures through revolutionary or other means and changing value systems in fundamental ways .
a millenarian restorationist christian denomination with nontrinitarian beliefs distinct from mainstream christianity .
lgbtq people who are jehovah's witnesses .
the second - largest christian church ,  with approximately 260 million baptised members .
lgbtq people who are eastern orthodox .
a denominational movement of clergy and laity who self - identify as catholic  ( most often as old catholic and / or as independent catholic )  and form "micro - churches claiming apostolic succession and valid sacraments" .
a term used from the 1850s by groups which had separated from the roman catholic church over certain doctrines ,  primarily concerned with papal authority ;  some of these groups ,  especially in the netherlands ,  had already existed long before the term .
a gay man who is catholic .
a lesbian who is catholic .
a bisexual person who is catholic .
a transgender person who is catholic .
a gay man who is protestant .
a lesbian who is protestant .
a bisexual person who is protestant .
a transgender person who is protestant .
lgbtq people who are presbyterian .
a child who is a lesbian .
a male child who is gay .
a relationship involving two people .
a relationship involving three people .
relationships between two people in which at least one of those persons are lgbtqia +  .
a marital relationship between two people .
relationships between two people in which at least one of those persons are bisexual .
relationships between two people in which both persons are gay men .
relationships between two people in which both persons are lesbians .
relationships between two people in which at least one of those persons are transgender .
an lgbtqia +  person who is not out ,  or has not made their identity known ,  to others .
a dyadic relationship in which partners have different hiv statuses .
a dyadic relationship in which both partners have the same hiv status .
a nonmarital relationship between two people .
fiction pertaining to ,  or including parts which relate to ,  a specific subculture .
fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
fiction pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
fiction pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
fiction pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
fiction pertaining especially to intersex persons and / or culture .
fiction pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
speculative fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
a genre of fan fiction that focuses on romantic or sexual relationships between fictional characters of the same sex .
a subgenre of slash fan fiction which focuses on romantic and / or sexual relationships between female fictional characters .
fiction pertaining especially to asexual persons and / or culture .
science fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
a genre of fiction usually involving a mysterious death ,  crime ,  or other mysterious circumstance to be solved .
a subgenre of crime fiction and mystery fiction in which an investigator or a detective—either professional ,  amateur or retired—investigates a crime ,  often murder .
a genre of speculative fiction set in a fictional universe ,  often inspired by real world myth and folklore .
fantasy fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
mystery fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
detective fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
genre fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
drama pertaining to ,  or including parts which relate to ,  a specific subculture .
drama pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
drama pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
drama pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
drama pertaining especially to bisexual persons and / or culture .
drama pertaining especially to transgender persons and / or culture .
a person whose occupation involves performing striptease in a public adult entertainment venue such as a strip club .
a person who engages in dancing that provides erotic entertainment and whose objective is the stimulation of erotic or sexual thoughts or actions in viewers .
a person belonging to an ethnic group which is the original or earliest known inhabitants of an area ,  in contrast to groups that have settled ,  occupied or colonized the area more recently .
indigenous persons who are lgbtqia +  .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples of africa .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples of the americas .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples of asia .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples of europe .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples of oceania .
a person belonging to any of various peoples who are descended from groups that lived in australia and surrounding islands before british colonization .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples of the australian mainland and many of its islands ,  such as tasmania ,  fraser island ,  hinchinbrook island ,  the tiwi islands and groote eylandt ,  but excluding the torres strait islands .
aboriginal australians who are lgbtqia +  .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples of north america .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples of south america .
the indigenous peoples of the united states .
a person belonging to any of various indigenous peoples within the boundaries of canada .
indigenous persons of the united states who are lgbtqia +  .
inuit who are lgbtqia +  .
māori who are lgbtqia +  .
a person from any of various indigenous peoples of polynesia .
the predominant and indigenous inhabitants of melanesia ,  in a wide area from maluku islands and new guinea to as far east as the islands of vanuatu and fiji .
an indigenous person of new guinea belonging to one of two major historical lineages:  ( 1 )  a first wave from the malay archipelago perhaps 50 , 000 years ago when new guinea and australia were a single landmass called sahul ,  and  ( 2 )  much later a wave of austronesian people from the north who introduced austronesian languages and pigs about 3 , 500 years ago ,  and who left a small but significant genetic trace in many coastal papuan peoples  ( though only a minority of austronesian - speaking papuans have detectable austronesian ancestry )  .
papuans who are lgbtqia +  .
a person from any of various indigenous peoples of melanesia .
a media campaign that aims to increase awareness of particular issue ,  topic ,  product ,  or action .
a media campaign that aims to establish a position and / or change perceptions about something .
a media campaign that aims to establish a position about lgbtqia +  persons or lgbtqia +  rights or change perceptions about lgbtqia +  persons ,  culture ,  or laws .
a family with at least one adopted child and at least one adoptive parent .
a family with at least one adopted child and at least one adoptive parent ,  one of whom is lgbtqia +  .
a family with at least one foster child and at least one foster parent .
a family with at least one foster child and at least one foster parent ,  one of whom is lgbtqia +  .
a family with children that is headed by a single parent .
a family with children that is headed by a single parent in which at least one of the family members is lgbtqia +  .
a family in which at least one parent is bisexual .
a family in which the parents are a gay male couple .
a family in which the parents are a lesbian couple .
a family in which at least one parent is transgender .
a family comprised of drag performers led by a drag parent  ( commonly labeled as a drag mother or drag father )  .
a less experienced drag performer who is adopted by and is mentored and guided by a more experience drag performer ,  their drag parent  ( more often referred to as their drag mother or drag father )  .
a more experienced drag performer who adopts and acts as the mentor and guide to other drag performers ,  known as their drag children .
slang often used in the drag community .
a chosen family that has bonded together through leather culture and lifestyle .
adoptive parenthood in which a parent is lgbtqia +  .
biological parenthood in which a parent is lgbtqia +  .
the state of being an foster parent .
foster parenthood in which a parent is lgbtqia +  .
adoptive parents who are lgbtqia +  .
art pertaining to ,  or including parts which relate to ,  lgbtqia +  culture ,  persons ,  or the lgbtqia +  community .
art associated with a particular subculture .
censorship of any of various kinds of art .
censorship of any of various kinds of lgbtq art .
biological parents who are lgbtqia +  .
censorship of any of various kinds of books .
censorship of any of various kinds of lgbtq books .
a blog related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
a book related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
censorship of any of various kinds of lgbtq material .
a person who has multiple racial and / or ethnic backgrounds .
a person who has two racial and / or ethnic backgrounds .
lgbtqia +  persons who have two racial and / or ethnic backgrounds .
an internet group primarily used to describe any form of synchronous conferencing ,  occasionally even asynchronous conferencing .
internet chat groups related to the lgbtqia +  community or any of its various subcommunities .
internet chat groups related to the lesbian community or any of its various subcommunities .
a book that is requested to be removed from a library or other area as a form of book censorship .
a lgbtq book that is requested to be removed from a library or other area as a form of book censorship .
a person who makes a donation .
a person who donates any of various medical resources ,  usually organs ,  cells ,  or tissues .
a person who donates blood for use in transfusion .
a person who donates sperm ,  usually anonymously ,  to a sperm bank or fertility clinic .
blood donors who are lgbtqia +  .
a person who donates oocytes  ( eggs )  to a fertility clinic .
someone who shares in the parenting of a child or children .
lgbtqia +  persons who share in the parenting of a child or children .
the state of being a coparent .
coparenthood in which the coparent is lgbtqia +  .
a publication that consists of comics art in the form of sequential juxtaposed panels that represent individual scenes .
a sequence of drawings arranged in interrelated panels to display brief humor or form a narrative ,  often serialized ,  with text in balloons and captions .
a comic strip related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
comics published on a website or mobile application .
a webcomic related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
a comic publication related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
a graphic novel related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
a pornographic comic related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
a pornographic comic related to gay men ,  gay male subjects ,  and / or gay male culture .
a comic publication related to transgender persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
a comic publication related to lesbians ,  lesbian subjects ,  and / or lesbian culture .
a book made up of comics content .
a comic publication related to gay men ,  gay male subjects ,  and / or gay male culture .
a branch of medicine that deals with the disorders of the heart as well as some parts of the circulatory system .
the branch of medicine focused on the digestive system and its disorders .
a branch of medicine dealing with disorders of the nervous system .
the medical specialty that deals with male health ,  particularly relating to the problems of the male reproductive system and urological problems that are unique to men .
a medical specialty concerned with the skin ,  its structure ,  functions ,  diseases ,  and treatment .
statistical interpretation and description of a population with reference to distribution ,  composition ,  or structure .
the study and application of beauty treatment .
a subfield of cosmetology focused on utilizing electrolysis for permanant hair removal .
the study and analysis of the distribution  ( who ,  when ,  and where )  ,  patterns and determinants of health and disease conditions in defined populations .
an academic discipline that deals with processes of human communication and behavior ,  patterns of communication in interpersonal relationships ,  social interactions and communication in different cultures .
a discipline and field of study that deals with the content ,  history ,  and effects of various media ;  in particular ,  the mass media .
an academic discipline that deals with various theoretical ,  historical ,  and critical approaches to films .
an academic discipline that deals with critical approaches to television .
the science that deals with the study of microorganisms ,  including algae ,  archaea ,  bacteria ,  fungi ,  protozoa ,  and viruses .
the study of viral – submicroscopic ,  parasitic particles of genetic material contained in a protein coat – and virus - like agents .
the branch and specialty of biology that studies the morphology ,  ecology ,  genetics and biochemistry of bacteria as well as many other aspects related to them .
the branch of biology concerned with the study of fungi ,  including their genetic and biochemical properties ,  their taxonomy and their use to humans as a source for tinder ,  traditional medicine ,  food ,  and entheogens ,  as well as their dangers ,  such as toxicity or infection .
the study of parasites ,  their hosts ,  and the relationship between them .
the scientific study of the nervous system .
the medical science ,  and specialty practice ,  concerned with all aspects of disease ,  but with special reference to the essential nature ,  causes ,  and development of abnormal conditions ,  as well as the structural and functional changes that result from the disease processes .
the branch of medical science that deals with the classification of diseases .
a branch of medicine that deals with the prevention ,  diagnosis ,  and treatment of cancer .
the branch of surgery broadly concerned with the skeletal system  ( bones and joints )  .
the study of structure ,  function ,  ecology and evolution at the level of the organism .
the study of the diversification of living forms ,  both past and present ,  and the relationships among living things through time .
the study of the origin ,  structure ,  development ,  growth ,  function ,  genetics ,  and reproduction of plants .
the branch of biology dealing with the study of animals .
a subdiscipline of biology that aims to understand life at a cellular and molecular level .
a branch of biology dealing with the study of the form and structure of organisms and their specific structural features .
anatomic
the study of the external appearance of an organism .
the branch of anatomy that concerns the structure and function of bones .
the philosophical study of the structures of experience and consciousness .
a subspecialty of internal medicine concerned with the study of the respiratory system .
a subspecialty of internal medicine concerned with the study of inflammatory or degenerative processes and metabolic derangement of connective tissue structures which pertain to a variety of musculoskeletal disorders ,  such as arthritis .
the scientific study of suicidal behaviour ,  the causes of suicidalness and suicide prevention .
a branch of medicine which deals with sexually transmitted disease .
a branch of medicine that deals with disorders ,  diseases and injuries of the vocal apparatus ,  especially the larynx .
in its broadest sense ,  vocology is the study of voice ,  but as a professional discipline it has a narrower focus: the science and practice of voice habilitation ,  which includes evaluation ,  diagnosis ,  and intervention .
a community resource that helps people in need .
the study of the structure ,  behavior ,  growth ,  reproduction ,  and pathology of cells ;  and the function and chemistry of cellular components .
the study of the structure of various tissues of organisms on a microscopic level .
the study of the immune system and its reaction to pathogens ,  as well as its malfunctions  ( autoimmune diseases ,  allergies ,  rejection of organ transplants )  .
the branch of medicine that deals with the blood and blood - forming organs and the diseases thereof .
studies or areas of the biology which utilize specialized knowledge from multiple domains .
the study of the composition ,  chemical structures ,  and chemical reactions of living things .
the branch of biochemistry dealing with the chemical nature and biological activity of enzymes .
studies or areas of the chemistry which utilize specialized knowledge from multiple domains .
the study ,  evaluation ,  and interpretation of literature .
a specialty concerned with the use of x - ray and other forms of radiant energy in the diagnosis and treatment of disease .
the study of the social ,  cultural ,  psychological ,  cognitive ,  and biological aspects of aging .
ideas which conform to societal expectations of masculinity or understandings of what "normal" masculinity should look like in a given society .
culture attributed to "bottoms" ,  usually  ( but not always )  meaning persons who are penetrated during gay male intercourse .
culture attributed to "tops" ,  usually  ( but not always )  meaning persons who are penetrating during gay male intercourse .
culture based upon sexual role ,  or role during sexual performance .
a month dedicated to bringing awareness to a certain health cause and / or condition .
drag events merged with stage bingo events ,  often held by lgbtqia +  bars and lgbtqia +  - oriented organizations .
an event ,  often held at local libraries or similar venues ,  in which a drag performer reads a books to children ;  such events often feature other activities such as doing crafts .
pain which affirms one's gender identity ;  for instance ,  chest and back pain in transgender women .
a social phenomenon that transmits collective illusions of threats ,  whether real or imaginary ,  through a population in society as a result of rumors and fear .
a mass hysteria that inaccurately suggests that if transgender women are allowed to use bathroom facilities matching their gender identity ,  that cisgender men would disguise themselves as transgender women to access those facilities and sexually assault cisgender women .
steroidal compounds related to estriol .
an estrogen medication which was previously used for estrogen - type indications such as the treatment of menopausal symptoms in women .
a theory of gender development introduced by sandra bem in 1981 .
a person who participates ,  in some form or fashion ,  in a wedding ceremony .
a woman who will soon be or has recently been married .
a man who will soon be or has recently been married .
a person engaged to be married .
a message posted in an electronic or internet forum of some kind .
a post on a social media website .
a post on an internet forum .
a post on a blog .
a post on the social media website twitter .
a post on a usenet newsgroup .
groups that advocate for science .
slang used within any of various cross - dressing communities .
materials in any medium which are issued under the same title in succession ;  they are usually numbered and / or dated and appear at given intervals ,  typically without a predetermined conclusion .
a periodical that is a printed or electronic report containing news concerning of the activities of a business or an organization that is sent to its members ,  customers ,  employees or other subscribers .
a manifesto is a published verbal declaration of the intentions ,  motives ,  or views of the issuer ,  be it an individual ,  group ,  political party or government .
a subculture formed of persons who identified as "fairies" around the turn of the 20th century until the advent of world war ii .
a road in an urban setting .
a road in a rural setting .
a public road in a populated area  ( such as a town or a city )  with buildings on both sides .
a street in north america .
a street in the united states .
a street in california .
a street in san francisco .
a street in san francisco which begins perpendicular to alemany boulevard in san francisco's bernal heights district and ends perpendicular to the embarcadero on the san francisco bay .
a geographically localized community within a larger city ,  town ,  suburb or rural area .
a neighborhood in north america .
a neighborhood in the united states .
a neighborhood in california .
a neighborhood in san francisco .
a neighborhood in downtown san francisco ,  in the flatlands on the southern slope of nob hill ,  situated between the union square shopping district to the northeast and the civic center office district to the southwest .
the art or science of building ;  especially ,  the art of building houses ,  churches ,  bridges ,  and other structures ,  for the purposes of civil life .
denotes a person having origins in any of the original peoples of the far east ,  southeast asia ,  or the indian subcontinent ,  and who was either born in the united states or who was naturalized as a citizen of the united states .
public baths contain facilities such as baths ,  showers ,  swimming pools ,  massage tables ,  saunas and steam rooms .
a public baths structure used primarily for bathing .
a social movement focused around any of various aspects of health or health - related issues .
a social movement seeking to change anti - fat bias in social attitudes by raising awareness among the general public about the obstacles faced by fat people .
a popular aesthetic expression at a particular time and place and in a specific context ,  especially in clothing ,  footwear ,  lifestyle ,  accessories ,  makeup ,  hairstyle ,  and body proportions .
an endeavour that seeks to preserve ,  conserve and protect buildings ,  objects ,  landscapes or other artifacts of historical significance .
a form of mass media that focuses on delivering news to the general public or a target public .
any of a a diverse array of media technologies that reach a large audience via mass communication .
the collection ,  preparation ,  and distribution of news and related commentary and feature materials through such media as pamphlets ,  newsletters ,  newspapers ,  magazines ,  radio ,  motion pictures ,  television ,  and books .
any of various services which provide some form of media ,  typically mass media .
any of various services which make information ,  literature ,  music ,  software and other content available to the public for sale or for free .
power of institutions ,  organizations ,  or laws of society to influence or regulate behavior or attitudes of groups or individuals .
those forms of control which are exerted in less concrete and tangible ways ,  as through folkways ,  mores ,  conventions ,  and public sentiment .
control which is exerted by the more stable organizations of society ,  such as established institutions and the law .
activities of some members of government who act in an organized manner to enforce the law by discovering ,  deterring ,  and / or punishing people who violate the rules and norms governing that society .
any of various organizations composed of and / or primarily for motorcyclists .
an approach to recovery in regard to a mental health issue or substance dependence which emphasizes and supports a person's potential for recovery .
organizations which provide mental health services .
any of various organizations that are involved in the treatment of substance abuse ,  physical dependence and addictive behavior .
any of various organizations that are involved in recovery from various aspects of substance abuse ,  physical dependence and addictive behavior .
voluntary associations of people who share a common desire to overcome drug addiction .
an addiction recovery organization  ( i .e .
an organization which is rooted in or based in a specific community ,  and geared toward serving that community's needs .
media which transmit information electronically via media such as films ,  radio ,  recorded music ,  or television .
any of various services which provide forms of entertainment .
any of various entertainment services which seek to amuse .
any of various services which are available and generally more popular from the late evening into the early hours of the morning .
nightlife entertainment which has a primarily lgbtqia +  audience .
the collection and study of historical information about individuals ,  families ,  important events ,  or everyday life using audiotapes ,  videotapes ,  or transcriptions of planned interviews .
a person with a disability or disabilities that affect their activities of daily living and that may require special accommodations .
a person who has a form of physical disability .
a person who has a form of mental disability .
any of various lgbtqia +  persons with physical disabilities .
any of various pieces of equipment which aid in the creation of ,  the transmission of ,  and / or the presentation of audio and / or visual information .
a piece of equipment which can generate ,  alter ,  transmit ,  and / or receive radio waves .
broadcast media transmitted via radio waves .
voluntary use of free time for activities outside the daily routine .
activity engaged in for pleasure .
any of various forms of competitive physical activity or games which ,  through casual or organized participation ,  at least in part aim to use ,  maintain or improve physical ability and skills while providing enjoyment to participants ,  and in some cases ,  entertainment for spectators .
a comic style in which a comedian performs in front of a live audience ,  usually speaking directly to them .
a christian theological movement named for its belief that the god in christianity is one person ,  as opposed to the trinity ,  which in most other branches of christianity defines god as one being in three persons: the father ,  son ,  and holy spirit .
a liberal religion characterized by a "free and responsible search for truth and meaning" .
an adherent of unitarianism .
an adherent of unitarian universalism .
a war engaged in by all or most of the principal nations in the world .
any of various forms of sexual play which involve the anus .
assaultive behavior which is considered criminal under any of various jurisdictions .
assaultive behavior in which a person  ( who may be considered a victim )  is hit or struck repeatedly ,  with or without a weapon .
to push someone roughly .
beating which has an erotic component ;  typically considered as a component of various bdsm activities .
a punishment intended to cause physical pain to a person .
the infliction of corporal punishment as a result of a sentence by a court of law .
the deliberate infliction of physical pain / discomfort and psychological humiliation as a response to undesired behavior by a student or group of students .
physical or corporal punishment by a parent or other legal guardian is any act causing deliberate physical pain or discomfort to a minor child in response to some undesired behavior .
the use of belts made of strong materials  ( usually leather )  as a whip - like instrument for corporal punishment  ( see that article for generalities )  .
assault which is considered a felony within any of various jurisdictions .
assault with any of various weapons .
the act of beating the human body with special implements such as whips ,  lashes ,  rods ,  switches ,  the cat o' nine tails ,  the sjambok ,  the knout ,  etc .
a form of physical violence consisting of a number of hits  ( known as "strokes" or "cuts" )  with a single cane usually made of rattan ,  generally applied to the offender's bare or clothed buttocks  ( see spanking )  or hands  ( on the palm )  .
a type of physical violence which consists of hitting the soles of a person's bare feet .
a common form of physical violence ,  involving the act of striking the buttocks of another person to cause physical pain ,  generally with an open hand .
the act of spanking another person for the sexual arousal or gratification of either or both parties .
any of various forms of sexual play which involve the breasts .
a garment ,  usually of cloth ,  tied to one's head to cover the eyes to disable the wearer's sight .
a sac or pouch .
a non - porous bag designed to contain a human body .
an of various instruments designed and used to inflict torture .
a torture device consisting of a rectangular ,  usually wooden frame ,  slightly raised from the ground ,  with a roller at one or both ends .
a rack designed for the purposes of bondage .
a person who cleans and buffs shoes and then applies a waxy paste to give a shiny appearance and a protective coating .
those sciences which focus on health ,  or health care ,  as core parts of their subject matter .
the health care professions other than nursing ,  medicine ,  and pharmacy .
the science dealing with the establishment and maintenance of health in the individual and the group .
maintaining the body's cleanliness .
practices and items used in the prevention of infections during medical treatment .
a type of clothing worn by members of an organization while participating in that organization's activity .
any of various motor actions or behaviors involving the oral region of the body .
the act of forcibly ejecting saliva or other substances from the mouth .
a device for restraining .
a device that impairs the freedom of movement of the body in some way .
physical restraints used during certain medical procedures to restrain patients with the minimum of discomfort and pain and to prevent them from injuring themselves or others .
medical restraints used primarily in psychiatry and allied disciplines .
a mid - stomach–length garment for the upper body .
a garment shaped like a jacket with long sleeves that surpass the tips of the wearer's fingers .
the process of deliberately enticing a person ,  to engage in a relationship ,  to lead astray ,  as from duty ,  rectitude ,  or the like ;  to corrupt ,  to persuade or induce into engaging in sexual behavior .
a subculture of men whose goal is seduction and sexual success with women .
any of various communities related to sexual practices ,  beliefs ,  and / or identities and / or gender identifications .
communities based around gender expression or a specific kind of gender expression .
communities based on gender identity and / or common gender identification .
communities based around or in reference to particular facets of sexuality .
a community of men whose goal is seduction and sexual success with women .
a business serving mostly person belonging to the leather subculture whose primary function is the serving of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises .
any stimulus involving physical contact with the nipple or nipples that leads to ,  enhances and maintains sexual arousal ,  and may lead to orgasm .
substances that cause the adherence of two surfaces .
any one of a variety of combinations of backing materials coated with an adhesive .
an adhesive tape that will stick with application of pressure ,  without the need for a solvent  ( such as water )  or heat for activation .
cloth -  or scrim - backed pressure - sensitive tape ,  often coated with polyethylene .
a bladed melee weapon intended for cutting or thrusting that is longer than a knife or dagger ,  consisting of a long blade attached to a hilt .
a knife with a very sharp point and usually two sharp edges ,  typically designed or capable of being used as a thrusting or stabbing weapon .
a device that has been modified or constructed specifically for the purpose of making music .
any of various weapons meant specifically for throwing .
a ranged weapon system consisting of an elastic launching device  ( bow )  and long - shafted projectiles  ( arrows )  .
a weapon designed to pneumatically discharge solid projectiles but can also be liquid  ( as in water guns / cannons and projected water disruptors )  or even charged particles  ( as in a plasma gun )  and may be free - flying  ( as with bullets and artillery shells )  or tethered  ( as with taser guns ,  spearguns and harpoon guns )  .
a weapon that fires a projectile by means of air pressure ,  similar in principle to the operation of pneumatic tube delivery systems .
a category of firearms with longer barrels than most other types .
a short - barrelled firearm that can be held and used with one hand .
an electroshock weapon which fires barbed darts intended to puncture the skin and remain attached to the target .
a weapon which delivers an electric shock aimed at temporarily disrupting muscle functions and / or inflicting pain .
a stick with electrodes on the end which is usually used to make cattle move through a relatively high - voltage ,  low - current electric shock .
a short staff or stick ,  usually made of wood ,  wielded as a weapon .
a roughly cylindrical club made of wood ,  rubber ,  plastic or metal .
a handheld device commonly used to make cattle or other livestock move by striking or poking them .
a form of temperature play that involves using cigars .
a sexual fetish based on the pulmonary consumption  ( smoking )  of tobacco ,  most often via cigarettes ,  cigars ,  and also ,  pipes and hookahs to some extent .
pornography that features detailed depictions of sexual organs or sexual acts such as vaginal ,  anal or oral intercourse ,  cunnilingus ,  fellatio ,  fingering ,  anilingus ,  ejaculation ,  and fetish play .
commercial still photography or film that has a pornographic or erotic component but is less sexually graphic and intrusive than hardcore pornography ,  defined by a "lack of penetration" including stripteases ,  lingerie modeling ,  simulated sex ,  and emphasis on the sensual appreciation .
any of various forms of sexual play which involve various kinds of fetishes and / or kinks .
reference conveyed through pictures .
any of various depictions in pornography ,  or depictions woud be considered pornographic in certain contexts .
the depiction of human ejaculation ,  especially onto another person .
a sexual activity in which a person ejaculates semen onto the face of one or more sexual partners .
a device designed to hold something in place .
a device designed to hold things firmly together .
any of various tools characterized primarily by their usage in an industry or industries .
assembly of interconnected links ,  typically made of metal used for connecting other components .
a fastener used to hang up clothes for drying ,  usually on a clothes line .
a class of activities meant to impart physical sensations upon a partner ,  as opposed to mental forms of erotic play .
any of various forms of sexual play which involve electricity .
a physical attack disrupts ,  damages ,  or destroys computer equipment and / or the availability of data .
a directed physical attack with either a part of the human body or with an inanimate object  ( such as a weapon )  intended to cause blunt trauma or penetrating trauma upon an opponent .
a striking blow with the fist .
a physical strike using the leg ,  in unison usually with an area of the knee or lower using the foot ,  heel ,  tibia  ( shin )  ,  ball of the foot ,  blade of the foot ,  toes or knee  ( the latter is also known as a knee strike )  .
a targeted strike with the head ,  typically  ( when intentional )  involving the use of robust parts of the headbutter's cranium as the area of impact .
a piece of clothing worn on the feet and often covering the ankle or some part of the calf .
garments worn directly on the legs  ( and feet )  .
any of various instruments for inflicting spankings .
implement used to strike a person on the buttocks .
a form of spanking which utilizes a device called a spanking paddle .
an object normally worn on the face ,  typically for protection ,  disguise ,  performance ,  or entertainment .
any of various masks which are strongly associated with a specific practical function ,  usually protective in nature .
a mask which tends to have some magical and / or religious funciton or functions and typically appear in rites of passage or in various kinds of theatre .
any of various masks used primarily in medical care .
any of various masks which primarily aim to afford some form of protection to the wearer .
a mask used primarily to protect the wearer from inhaling airborne pollutants and toxic gases .
a mask used to avoid recognition ;  a mask used as a form of disguise .
a mask used in relation to or in association with any of various political purposes ,  affiliations ,  or movements .
a stylized depiction of guy fawkes ,  the best - known member of the gunpowder plot ,  an attempt to blow up the house of lords in london on 5 november 1605 .
a deliberate attempt to cause pain to the groin area of one's opponent .
a competitive contact sport that usually involves one - on - one combat .
any of various sports that emphasize or require physical contact between players .
a sport consisting of hand - to - hand combat between two unarmed contestants seeking to pin or press each other's shoulders to the ground .
any of various wrestling activities which involve a certain amount of nudity among participants .
any of various restraint devices designed to secure an individual's wrists in proximity to each other .
body piercing performed as part of a bdsm scene .
the process of hair removal from the root by using a covering of a sticky substance ,  such as wax ,  to adhere to body hair ,  and then removing this covering and pulling out the hair from the follicle .
any of various forms of beating of the buttocks .
any of various artificial aids used by equestrians while riding ,  driving ,  or handling horses from the ground .
a short type of whip without a lash ,  used in horse riding ,  part of the family of tools known as horse whips .
a kind of whip ,  longer than a crop ,   ( up to 110 cm or 43 inches ,  including lash or popper )  for horse training ,  allowing a rider to touch the mount's side while keeping both hands on the reins .
any of various riding crops not for use on the horse ,  but that instead have a "hook" at the end to use in opening and shutting gates without dismounting ,  as well as a long leather thong to keep the hounds from coming near the horse's legs ,  and possibly getting kicked .
a form of whipping which utilizes a riding crop .
a kind of bondage which requires all four limbs to be tied together behind the back .
any of various physical restraints used to hogtie an individual person or non - human animal .
a kind of headgear that covers most of the head and neck ,  and sometimes the face .
an undergarment for protecting the testes and penis during cycling ,  contact sports or other vigorous physical activity .
a layer of material covering the surface of a device .
any of various films which function as coatings .
a layer of material ranging from fractions of a nanometer  ( monolayer )  to several micrometers in thickness .
a thin continuous polymeric material .
a thin plastic film typically used for sealing food items in containers to keep them fresh over a longer period of time .
the body of a dead human being .
anatomical structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of the kingdom animalia .
a deceased human body which has been mummified .
a part or parts left behind after other parts have been removed ,  utilized ,  destroyed ,  or otherwise taken away .
the physical entity of a deceased body of an organism .
the physical entity of a deceased body of an animal .
the physical entity of a deceased body of a human .
any of various changes which take place after death .
a process in which the skin and flesh of a corpse can be preserved .
mummification which takes place intentionally ,  such as that observed among ancient egyptians .
any of various natural processes which cause mummification ,  such as extreme cold ,  high aridity ,  or lack of oxygen .
a form of bondage in which a person is wrapped up or "cocooned"  ( and thereby completely immobilized )  .
a form of sexual bondage where a bound person is hung from one or more overhead suspension points .
the act of clamping upon the nipple ,  usually with devices called nipple clamps .
the use of a strap as an implement of corporal punishment .
any of various weapons which utilize elastic force to thrust a projectile .
a projectile weapon typically used to throw a blunt projectile such as a stone ,  clay ,  or lead "sling - bullet" .
a small hand - powered projectile weapon .
a fetishism in which sexual arousal is associated with observing objects being crushed or being crushed oneself .
crush fetishism which specifically involves humans .
crush fetishism involving the crushing of inanimate objects and / or invertebrates .
crush fetishism involving the crushing of non - human vertebrates .
a film created for the appeasement of crush fetishists .
any of various pornographic films produced with regard for fetishists and / or specific fetishes .
any of several sexual activities involving forcing ,  denying ,  or postponing orgasm .
a form of delaying orgasm which involves an individual squeezing their penis before ejaculation occurs .
a sexual activity involving application of pain or constriction to the penis .
a deliberate attempt to cause pain to the testicular area of one's opponent .
a penile sex toy designed to be worn around the penis and scrotum .
sex toys meant for ,  or focused on ,  testicular  ( or scrotal )  usage .
a sex toy that is used to elongate the scrotum and provide a feeling of weight pulling the testicles away from the body .
a device made from either metal or often clear acrylic that squeezes the testicles slowly by turning a nut or screw .
a ring - shaped device around the scrotum between the body and the testicles which when closed does not allow the testicles to slide through it .
piercing of the ear .
piercing of the genitalia or ,  more broadly ,  the genital area .
piercing of the lip .
piercing of the navel  ( belly button )  .
piercing of the nipple .
piercing of the nose .
piercing of the tongue .
tattooing of the genitalia .
piercing of the earlobe .
piercing of any of the various areas of the face .
any of various piercings of the oral area .
piercing of the eyebrow .
a facial piercing that is placed above the cheek bone or below the eyebrow .
a body piercing in the surrounding area of the human anus ,  usually the perineum .
a body piercing on the perineum .
a body piercing in the pubic area .
any of various body piercings that can be used to impose chastity .
piercing of the clitoris .
piercing of the clitoral hood .
piercing of the labia .
piercing of the foreskin .
a body piercing that travels through the scrotum from front to back ,  or from side to side .
piercing of the cheek .
piercing in the upper part of the external ear .
a biological substance is a substance which originates from a biological organism .
any of various biological substances which are organic and produced via natural processes .
any of various materials created by or originated from animals .
an animal skin treated for human use .
a durable and flexible material created by tanning animal rawhide and skins .
the fetishistic attraction to people wearing clothes made of leather or ,  in certain cases ,  to the garments themselves .
a theoretical social phenomenon in which lgbtqia +  people tend to enter similar social circles and / or groups without necessarily specifying their sexualities and / or gender identities .
the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community ,  nation ,  or ideology .
any of various guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a nation .
a cross - dresser who performs in a glamorous manner ,  especially one who performs at nightclubs and other entertainment venues .
a process by which a central system of power dominates the surrounding land and its components .
the policy or ideology of a country seeking to extend or retain its authority over other people or territories ,  generally with the aim of economic dominance .
the practice or ideology of using economics ,  globalization ,  cultural imperialism ,  and conditional aid to influence a developing country instead of the previous colonial methods of direct military control  ( imperialism )  or indirect political control  ( hegemony )  .
non - binary queer feminist theory .
pornography which involves any of various forms of animation .
outside of japan ,  hentai is anime and manga pornography .
video games involving primarily erotic content .
any of various japanese erotic video games .
a worldwide community of fans of anime and manga .
a convention for and / or by persons belonging to a particular fandom .
any of various conventions involving members of the furry fandom .
a second or secondary identity assumed by a person ,  which is distinct from a person's "normal" or true personality / identity .
a person's alter ego which is not known to the general populace ,  most often used in fiction .
a furry character ,  persona ,  alter ego ,  avatar ,  or identity assumed by a person or player normally associated with the furry fandom .
a language whose phonology ,  grammar ,  and vocabulary ,  instead of having developed naturally ,  are consciously devised .
a constructed language designed for aesthetic pleasure .
a constructed language designed to be utilized in some fictional context ,  such as in literature or in film .
a constructed language designed to provide easy ,  fast ,  and / or improved communication among all human beings ,  or a significant portion ,  without necessarily replacing native / natural languages .
a constructed language used in any of various rituals ,  typically religious in nature .
a constructed language devised to test a hypothesis or experiment with innovative linguistic features .
a language designed by and / or used by members of a particular fandom .
the clothing worn for very special occasions ,  such as coronations ,  graduations ,  parades ,  religious rites ,  and trials .
clothing which is considered appropriate in the context of formalized occasions ,  such as weddings or funerals .
a distinctive style of dress of an individual or group that reflects class ,  gender ,  profession ,  ethnicity ,  nationality ,  activity or epoch .
the term "theatrical" here is broader than its traditional usage .
costumes worn for particular holidays .
costumes worn on or around halloween ,  a festival which falls on october 31 .
clothing worn directly before ,  during ,  or after a wedding ceremony .
the dress worn by the bride during a wedding ceremony .
costumes worn by members of various fandoms .
animal - based costumes associated with the furry fandom .
theatrical costumes used to disguise a performer as an animal ,  monster ,  or other being .
a genre of genderswap fiction in which characters swap genders by swapping bodies .
a trope in adaptations of media in which a character ,  multiple characters ,  or all characters have their genders "switched" for any of various purposes .
a gender flip specifically involving a real - life historical figure .
a role - playing activity in which a story is told by means of its enactment by an actor or actress who adopts a character—in theatre ,  television ,  film ,  radio ,  or any other medium that makes use of the mimetic mode .
cross - gender acting refers typically to an actor portraying a gender "opposite" of their own ,  or generally to an actor portraying any gender other than their own .
the portrayal of underage characters in sexual situations in slash fiction .
a subgenre of real person fiction which involves taking a celebrity's public image and creating slash stories with them .
a term used for fanfic without any sexual content ,  or very little sexual content ,  compared to the canon .
stories which contain male / male content ,  based on perceived homoerotic subtext between fictitious characters .
slash fan fiction which predominantly features real - life musicians or bands .
a fandom formed around slash fiction ,  or slash works generally .
a fandom formed around femslash fiction ,  or femslash works generally .
a fandom which consists of the readers of yaoi  ( also called boys' love or abbreviated to bl )  ,  a genre of malexmale romance narratives aimed at those who participate in communal activities organized around yaoi ,  such as attending conventions ,  maintaining or posting to fansites ,  creating fan fiction or fan art ,  etc .
a fandom which consists of the readers of yuri ,  a genre of femalexfemale romance narratives aimed at those who participate in communal activities organized around yuri ,  such as attending conventions ,  maintaining or posting to fansites ,  creating fan fiction or fan art ,  etc .
fiction which primarily focuses on the relationship and romantic love between two  ( or more )  people ,  and which typically has an "emotionally satisfying and optimistic ending ."
romance fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
romance fiction pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
romance fiction pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
a japanese jargon term for content and a genre involving lesbian relationships or female homoeroticism in light novels ,  manga ,  anime ,  video games and related japanese media .
a genre of fictional media originating in japan that features homoerotic relationships between male characters .
a genre of japanese comic art which focuses on male same - sex love ,  as created primarily by gay men for a gay male audience .
fiction which primarily focuses on erotic elements and may be pornographic in terms of its content .
erotic fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
erotic fiction pertaining especially to lesbians and / or lesbian culture .
erotic fiction pertaining especially to gay men and / or gay male culture .
a fandom which consists of the readers of bara .
tropes related to or involving lgbtqia +  persons .
a trope in which lgbtqia +  characters are viewed as more expendable than their heteronormative counterparts for any of various reasons .
art which derive from other art or other sources  ( such as literature )  ,  either being directly inspired by or continuations or alternate histories of .
artwork created by fans of a work of fiction and derived from a series character or other aspect of that work .
media which derive from other media ,  either being directly inspired by or continuations or alternate histories of .
media created by fans of a work and derived from a character or other aspect of that work .
a type of content warning which usually appears in the header or metadata of a fanwork .
the material accepted as officially part of the story in the fictional universe of that story .
certain ideas which become influential or widely accepted within fan communities ,  who refer to such ideas as "fanon" ,  a portmanteau of fan and canon ;  alternatively ,  any fan's individual canon for a given set of media .
a fan's personal interpretation of a canon .
any of various tropes involving pregnancy .
a trope in which a men  ( who is almost always cisgender )  becomes pregnant .
fiction in which conception occurs due to lesbian or female - female sex .
fiction which incorporates elements of erotic and speculative fictions .
a subgenre of speculative erotic fiction ,  and originally a subgenre of erotic fan fiction  ( slash fiction )  .
fan fiction pertaining especially to lgbtqia +  persons and / or culture .
any of various relationships in fiction .
a theoretical fictional relationship desired by fans for two or more people or characters  ( or occasionally inanimate objects )  .
a fan's favorite pairing or ship in a given fandom .
a name formed by combining existing names to form a new name .
a blended name applied to a relationship ,  usually romantic and / or sexual in nature .
a fixed name for a particular pairing or ship created by fans or fan communities which usually take the form of blended names .
fan fiction in which rape is a central element .
fan fiction which primarily focuses on transgender characters ,  especially those who are not canonically presented as transgender .
fan media that focuses on romantic or sexual relationships between fictional characters of the same sex .
fan art that focuses on romantic or sexual relationships between fictional characters of the same sex .
any of various conventions involving members of the slash fandom .
a type of fan art which involves photo manipulation ,  often in order to depict television and film characters in non - canonical situations .
a type of manip fan art involving same - sex eroticism ,  desire ,  romance ,  or sex .
roleplay involving same - sex characters in relationships ,  including canonical and non - canonical  ( original )  fan - created characters .
a type of slash created by taking clips of characters  ( generally ones not written as gay ,  or in a relationship together )  ,  and through juxtaposition ,  song choice ,  and other techniques ,  portray a slash relationship on screen .
camp in which mainstream "serious" works are decoded as campy ,  such as cliché - ridden ,  badly acted hollywood films .
camp which is created by the producers of the text ,  and not decoded as such by the audience or spectators of the work .
camp which calls into question dominant notions of gender and sexuality .
camp which is a result of mainstream appropriation of camp ,  particularly of queer camp .
a term used ,  usually derogatory ,  to describe those whose wealth has been acquired within their own generation ,  rather than by familial inheritance .
" [ t ] he inherited wealth of established upper - class families  ( i .e .
a person belonging to a social class of upper - class ,  white american protestants ,  usually of british descent  ( hence anglo - saxon )  .
removal of a cisgender man's penis and the testicles ,  usually non - consensually .
an informal fallacy that intends to discredit the opponent's argument by attacking the opponent's own personal behavior as being inconsistent with the argument's conclusion ( s )  .
a variant of the tu quoque logical fallacy that attempts to discredit an opponent's position by charging them with hypocrisy without directly refuting or disproving their argument .
an informal logical fallacy that occurs when two sides of an argument are assumed to have equal or comparable value regardless of their respective merits ,  which  ( in turn )  can lead to the conclusion that the answer to a problem is always to be found between two extremes .
a category of informal fallacies in which a cause is incorrectly identified .
a fallacy which concludes that persons ,  groups ,  or agents generally are inherently inclined to bring about morally fair and fitting consequences .
a version of the just world fallacy in which a person states that they support something that they profess to disagree with because "surely there must be exceptions ,  right?"
propaganda which portrays police officers as being strictly friendly and heroic .
a pejorative which is ableist in nature .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the musculoskeletal system .
surgical procedures performed on soft tissue .
surgical removal of soft tissue .
surgical excision of soft tissue .
surgical removal of localized subcutaneous fat deposits .
surgical removal of subcutaneous fat using suction .
a person who is licensed to practiced psychotherapy  ( psychological therapy )  ,  the use of psychological methods ,  particularly when based on regular personal interaction with adults ,  to help a person change behavior and overcome problems in desired ways .
a practitioner of sex therapy ,  a strategy for the improvement of sexual function and treatment of sexual dysfunction .
a subset of sexual practices in which either real or imagined gender background of a participant or participants is used to justify power imbalance ,  including ,  but not limited to ,  the usage of slurs ,  gendered narratives ,  and objects imbued with gendered meaning .
refers to various kinds of slang used by members of the incel  ( involuntary celibate )  community .
devices that provide support for tubular structures that are being anastomosed or for body cavities during skin grafting .
an instrument used to gently stretch the vagina .
a medical device similar to a speculum designed to open and relax the internal / external anal sphincter and rectum originally designed to facilitate medical inspection or relieve constipation .
a pejorative referring to intersex persons .
a pejorative referring to nonbinary persons .
a narrative or visual work featuring a romance between two or more males .
a movement and a form of action against racism and the systemic racism and oppression of marginalized groups .
any of various kinds of services provide basic human needs relating to quality of life  ( such as education ,  health ,  welfare ,  etc .
the process of defending or pleading the cause of another individual or group .
advocacy in the interests of social justice ,  particularly advocacy on the behalf of the disenfranchised or those who have been discriminated against .
judicial and non - judicial measures implemented in order to redress legacies of human rights abuses .transitional justice is enacted at a point of political transition from violence and repression to societal stability  ( or at times years later )  and it is informed by a society’s desire to rebuild social trust ,  repair a fractured justice system ,  and build a democratic system of governance .
social policy consists of guidelines ,  principles ,  legislation and activities that affect the living conditions conducive to human welfare ,  such as a person's quality of life .
a policy which positively supports members of disadvantaged or underrepresented groups that have previously suffered discrimination in areas such as education ,  employment and housing .
the set of social or socio - political negotiations ,  agreements and actions that aim to solve a specific conflict .
the reestablishment of friendly relations ;  conciliation or rapprochement .
the methods and processes involved in facilitating the peaceful ending of conflict and retribution .
the process of resolving disputes between parties .
any of a wide range of dispute resolution processes and techniques that act as a means for disagreeing parties to come to an agreement without going through the traditional court system .
a theoretical framework in the social sciences that examines society and culture as they relate to categorizations of race ,  law ,  and power .
works that include publications such as reports ,  theses ,  conference papers ,  translations and limited circulation government documents which are not normally available through commercial publication sources .
a most historical mass hysteria which inaccurately suggests that if lesbians are allowed to use bathroom facilities matching their gender identity ,  that they would sexually harass heterosexual women using those same facilities .
conventional ,  formulaic generalizations ,  opinions ,  or images based on people who are lesbians .
conventional ,  formulaic generalizations ,  opinions ,  or images based on people who are transgender .
electrolysis performed on the face  ( and oftentimes the neck )  .
electrolysis performed on the genitalia and surrounding genital region .
a pre - production process for selecting a certain type of actor ,  dancer ,  singer ,  or extra for a particular role or part in a script ,  screenplay ,  or teleplay .
casting which considers casting or specifically casts persons for roles which they may have not been considered for in the past for any of various reasons ,  including structural discrimination processes .
the practice of casting without considering the actor's ethnicity and / or skin color .
a form of nontraditional casting in acting which revolves around reversing the gender of characters being played  ( male characters being played by female actors and vice versa )  .
a form of nontraditional casting in acting which revolves around reversing the race of characters being played  ( white characters being played by black actors and vice versa )  .
hostility to ,  prejudice ,  or discrimination against romani peoples  ( roma ,  sinti ,  iberian kale ,  welsh kale ,  finnish kale and romanichal )  .
fairness of treatment concerning people of different races resulting in equitable opportunities and outcomes for all .
the study of social ,  political ,  and economic relations between races and ethnicities at all levels of society .
the study of the structures that produce white privilege ,  the examination of what whiteness is when analyzed as a race ,  a culture ,  and a source of systemic racism ,  and the exploration of other social phenomena generated by the societal compositions ,  perceptions and group behaviours of white people .
a sense of group or collective identity based on one's perception that they shares a common heritage with a particular racial group .
a sense of group or collective identity based on one's perception of their own blackness and the specific cultural ,  social ,  and political contexts in which blackness exists .
a sense of group or collective identity based on one's perception of their own whiteness and the specific cultural ,  social ,  and political contexts in which "whiteness" exists .
a person who is white ,  usually used to refer exclusively to persons of european descent  ( or simply to refer to persons who are not of color ,  depending on a specific socio - political and historical context )  .
white persons categorized by nationality .
a member of a racial group of americans who identify as and are perceived to be white people .
any of various defensive responses by white people to discussions of societal discrimination ,  structural racism ,  and white privilege .
a form of white defensiveness which can find expression in the claim that racism simply doesn't exist or in the suggestion that slavery in the united states was a benign system or even had a civilizing effect on african americans .
a phenomenon where white people may obstruct dialogue regarding race - based discrimination ,  or otherwise block acknowledgement of these factors in society .
defensiveness or general discomfort experienced by a white person or white people when confronted with information concerning racial inequality and injustice .
a term used to refer to white americans who are not "old stock"  ( anglo - americans )  or white anglo - saxon protestants  ( wasps )  .
a white american descended from the original settlers of the thirteen colonies ,  of mostly white british ancestry ,  who colonized america in the 17th and the 18th centuries .
direct or indirect expressions of speech from persons of color ,  including writing ,  speaking ,  directing ,  and producing .
a social phenomenon grown out of the heightened interconnectivity between people and the receding economic and social significance of boundaries among nation states .
an alteration or difference from a norm or standard .
http: /  / purl .obolibrary .org / obo / ncit_c43414
the allowing ,  permitting ,  or acceptance of an action ,  idea ,  object ,  or person which one dislikes or disagrees with .
tolerance of religions or religious groups within a socio - political context .
a condtion which occurs when a person believes they have done something wrong by surviving a traumatic event when others did not ,  often feeling self - guilt .
a term used to describe the reactions and behaviors of people who have survived massive and adverse events ,  such as the holocaust ,  the rape of nanking ,  and the hiv / aids epidemic .
a syndrome defined by the psychological effects of living with the long - term trajectory of the aids epidemic and includes survivor's guilt ,  depression ,  and feelings of being forgotten in contemporary discussions concerning hiv .
non - random movement of an object ( s )  from one location to another .
movement of residence from one place to another .
the process whereby a society changes from a rural to an urban way of life .
the philosophical theory that all events are determined completely by previously existing causes .
the belief that human behavior is directly controlled by an individual's genes or some component of their physiology ,  generally at the expense of the role of the environment ,  whether in embryonic development or in learning .
the theory that social interactions and constructs alone determine individual behavior  ( as opposed to biological or objective factors )  .
the theory that widely shared practice determines social outcomes ,  even unconsciously .
the experience of one's own personality or individuality .
an awareness of how one's values ,  aspirations ,  and identity fit with their environment and impact others .
an awareness of how one's values ,  aspirations ,  and identity cause one to be viewed by others .
self - awareness of one's racial identity and its relationship to themself and their environment .
the self - awareness of one's status as white or belonging to a race considered white within a specific socio - political and historical context .
subgroup within a community which has been racialized ;  alternatively a subgroup within a community which belongs to a socially constructed racial category .
an approach to justice in which one of the responses to a crime is to organize a meeting between the victim and the offender ,  sometimes with representatives of the wider community .
a concept in the environmental justice movement ,  which developed in the united states throughout the 1970s and 1980s .
racism which is endemic and especially widespread within a particular society ,  group ,  and / or area .
note that the term "blaxican" should only be used by members identifying within that community .
a type of justice accessible primarily or assisted primarily through digital means ;  alternatively ,  social justice within digital environments .
the political philosophy which emphasizes the moral worth of the individual .
a political and moral philosophy based on liberty ,  consent of the governed and equality before the law .
a political ideology and a branch of liberalism which advocates civil liberties under the rule of law with an emphasis on economic freedom .
a political and economic philosophy based on strong support for a market economy and private property in the means of production .
the 20th - century resurgence of 19th - century ideas associated with economic liberalism and free - market capitalism .
a particular kind of love between black people ,  especially afro - americans ,  which has emerged as the result of shared culture ,  history ,  and status in racial justice movements .
the science of law .
the study of law and legal systems .
a branch and theory of legal studies which holds that traditional legal systems protect the interests of the establishment ,  rather than promote social justice .
the view that every entity does not have a set of attributes that are necessary to its identity and function ;  the opposite of essentialism ;  opposition to essentialism .
the acquisition of knowledge about one's culture or cultures .
education which incorporates sources and perspectives of persons from many different cultural backgrounds .
an approach to education which encourages retention of a person's original and / or family culture .
oral presentation of various forms of literature .
the social and cultural activity of orally sharing stories ,  sometimes with improvisation ,  theatrics or embellishment .
a short form of digital media production that allows everyday people to share aspects of their story .
a method of storytelling which focuses on persons whose experiences are not often reflected in mainstream storytelling and / or storytelling which casts doubt on accepted myths ,  stereotypes ,  and prejudices often held by the majority in society .
may refer to either  ( a )  storytelling which aims to replace rhetorical structures of the existing social order which unfairly discriminate ;  or  ( b )  storytelling as part of any of the various legal professions .
a concept that has been applied to prejudices and discrimination based on cultural differences between ethnic or racial groups .
the process of ascribing ethnic or racial identities to a relationship ,  social practice ,  or group that did not identify itself as such .
a process by which racial groups are viewed and treated differently by a majority group or groups  ( or mainstream society )  .
racialization which is produced by inter - institutional arrangements and interactions .
a branch of science studying formal language disciplines concerned with formal systems ,  such as logic ,  mathematics ,  statistics ,  theoretical computer science ,  artificial intelligence ,  information theory ,  game theory ,  systems theory ,  decision theory ,  and theoretical linguistics .
the systematic ,  theoretical analysis of the methods applied to a field of study .
the study of the methodology of historians and the development of "history" as a discipline .
the re - interpretation of an historical account or accounts .
an ideology which expresses perspectives on any of various aspects of history or methods utilized when constructing historical narratives .
a theory of intergroup relations that focuses on the maintenance and stability of group - based social hierarchies .
the belief that races are biologically distinct groups with definable "essences" .
a variation of essentialism which purports that differences from a "norm" of essential qualities for a group may simply be treated as slight variations and thus not disrupt the status quo of the group's qualities in question .
theories which involve topics such as politics ,  liberty ,  justice ,  property ,  rights ,  law ,  and the enforcement of laws by authority .
any of various theories related to law or legal systems .
a naturalistic approach to law .
philosophical theories falling under the scope of the field of epistemology .
the view that perception ,  experience ,  and reason change according to the viewer's relative perspective and interpretation .
an expression of love in written form .
love letters written by members of the lgbtqia +  community expressing any of various queer forms of love .
a literary medium genre consisting of works of literature that originate within digital media environments and require digital computation devices to be read .
digital literature which primarily utilizes hypertext ,  i .e .
makeup that is used to assist in creating the appearance of the characters that actors portray during a theater production .
mimicking or copying the movements of other individuals as a means of interaction and play as well as to learn by modeling the actions and behaviors of others .
a type of imitation in which someone who imitates or copies the behavior or actions of another for any of various reasons .
an act in which an entertainer who dresses stereotypically ,  exaggeratedly ,  or otherwise provocatively as a person of a different socially constructed race .
almost always offensive impersonation of a black person in any of various forms .
a term used to describe a form of theatrical make - up and impersonation style used predominantly by non - black performers to represent a caricature of a black person .
a form of blackface involving any of various digital media ,  in which persons utilize or directly impersonate black personages  ( whether it be mimicking a "black" manner of speaking ,  usage of black emojis or black reaction gifs ,  as well as full - on pretending to be a black person )  .
a social media specific term used to refer to a form of digital blackface in which non - black persons change their appearance and online persona to appear black  ( whether it be via makeup ,  spray tans ,  certain hair products ,  or even surgery )  .
almost always offensive impersonation of an asian person in any of various forms .
a term used to describe a form of theatrical make - up and impersonation style used predominantly by non - east asian performers to represent a caricature of a east asian person .
almost always offensive impersonation of a native american person in any of various forms .
the term being used to describe the wearing of feathers ,  warpaint ,  etc .
almost always offensive impersonation of a brown person in any of various forms .
a variation of blackface in which a person imitates a person of latin american ,  middle eastern ,  north african ,  maritime southeast asian ,  polynesian ,  native american ,  and / or south asian ethnic origin .
almost always offensive impersonation of a jewish person in any of various forms ,  mostly of a racial nature .
a vaudeville act that became popular among eastern european jews who immigrated to the united states in the 1880s .
impersonation of another person in which their identity is assumed in order to either gain benefit or to cause harm to that person .
a language that arises among a bilingual group combining aspects of two or more languages but not clearly deriving primarily from any single language .
a grammatically simplified means of communication that develops between two or more groups that do not have a language in common: typically ,  its vocabulary and grammar are limited and often drawn from several languages .
a stable natural language that develops from the simplifying and mixing of different languages into a new one within a fairly brief period of time: often ,  a pidgin evolved into a full - fledged language .
spoken or written language as used in ordinary communications between individuals and groups .
any of various creole languages based on english .
any of various english - based creole languages deriving primarily from the region of the african coast of west africa which lies along the gulf of guinea .
a west african creole language lexified by pidgin english and local african languages .
any of various dialects of english primarily spoken in the region of ,  and the regions directly surrounding ,  australia .
a language family includes the japanese language ,  spoken in the main islands of japan ,  and the ryukyuan languages ,  spoken in the ryukyu islands .
sexual intercourse in which some anatomical structure is inserted into the urethra .
any of various medical procedures which introduce an object and / or substance into or onto the body .
the act of putting something into or in between an area ( s )  of the body .
a process in which a sounding rod  ( oftentimes simply referred to as a sound )  is introduced into a body passage ,  typically for probing and / or dilation .
the medical use of probes called sounds to increase the inner diameter of the urethra and to locate obstructions in it .
an instrument for probing and dilating passages within the body ,  the best - known examples of which are urethral sounds and uterine sounds .
a medical sound designed to be inserted into the urethra .
a form of sexual play which typically involves urethral sounding or ,  less commonly ,  the introduction of other soft or rigid items into the urethral  ( such as catheters )  .
any of various english - based creole languages spoken in the western caribbean .
an english - based creole language with west african influences  ( a majority of non - english loan words of akan origin )  spoken primarily in jamaica and among the jamaican diaspora ;  it is spoken by the majority of jamaicans as a native language .
an electrical device used to remove hair by mechanically grasping multiple hairs simultaneously and pulling them out .
the wrongful ,  and usually forcible ,  carrying off of a human being .
the wrongful ,  and usually forcible ,  carrying off of a human being which primarily utilizes the internet to lure the individual .
a belief or an instance in which one has been abducted by non - human entities  ( aliens )  and subjected to physical and psychological experimentation .
the unauthorized removal of a minor  ( a child under the age of legal adulthood )  from the custody of the child's natural parents or legally appointed guardians .
the illegal removal of children from their home by an acquaintance or family member to a foreign country .
the hiding ,  taking ,  or keeping hold of a child by his / her parent while defying the rights of the child's other parent or another member of the family .
an instance in which a child is detained ,  transported some distance ,  held for ransom or with intent to keep the child permanently .
the slavery of children .
abduction of an adult .
abduction of a woman .
the rare crime of child abduction by kidnapping of an at term pregnant mother and extraction of her fetus through a crude cesarean section .
the large - scale abduction of women ,  i .e .
a practice in which a man abducts the woman he wishes to marry .
a method of abduction where a small immediate ransom is demanded ,  often by the victim being forced to withdraw money from his or her atm account .
a type of crime which involves an abduction of any person or thing someone highly values .
a consensual form of fantasy play which involves mock capture ,  bondage ,  struggle ,  and intimidation of one or more partners .
physical harm which impairs the usefulness or regular functionality of a part of the body .
damage inflicted on the body as the direct or indirect result of an external force ,  with or without disruption of structural continuity .
superficial damage caused by rubbing or scraping .
superficial damage to the skin caused by rubbing or scraping .
a form of abrasion caused by the friction of skin rubbing against a surface .
sexual arousal based on listing to or hearing sounds .
sexual arousal from listening to or hearing music .
sexual arousal from heights and high altitude activities .
sexual arousal by the thought of having sex with an amputee or by fantasizing about said sexual encounter .
any form of sexual arousal relating to the process or processes of amputation .
sexual arousal from the erotic use of inanimate ,  nonliving objects .
the sexual attraction to any of various bodily fluids .
sexual arousal from lactation .
sexual arousal from menstruation ,  especially from menstrual blood and other related menstrual byproducts .
sexual arousal from mucus .
fetishism related to body size .
fetishism related to modification of one's own and / or another's body .
unconventional sexual behavior related primarily to actions of an individual or the actions of others .
sexual attraction to pregnancy ,  to the appearance of pregnancy ,  to lactation ,  or to any of the particular stages of pregnancy ,  including impregnation and childbirth .
a form of sexual fetishism whereby a person becomes aroused when having entire body enclosed in a certain way .
sexual attractions based on the identity ( s )  or characteristic ( s )  of an individual or the identity ( s )  or characteristic ( s )  of their partner ( s )  .
unconventional sexual behavior related primarily to state ( s )  of an individual or the state ( s )  of others .
a fetishistic attraction to humanoid robots ;  also to people acting like robots or people dressed in robot costumes .
a fetish in which participants experience arousal from having a full bladder or wetting themselves ,  or from seeing someone else experiencing a full bladder or wetting themselves .
any of various forms of sexual play which involve urine ,  fecal matter ,  or bathrooms generally .
a form of bathroom play or omorashi play in which the dominant controls how and when the submissive is allowed to use the bathroom .
any of various forms of sexual play which involve urine .
fetishization of a person of asian descent ,  including ,  but not limited to ,  having strong preferences for asian persons when dating .
fetishization of a person of african descent ,  including ,  but not limited to ,  having strong preferences for black persons when dating .
racism in a sexual context .
art which depicts people in fetishistic situations such as s&m ,  domination / submission ,  bondage ,  and the like ,  sometimes in combination .
a sculptor ,  illustrator ,  painter ,  or other artist who makes fetish art — art related to sexual fetishism and fetishistic acts .
a photographer who creates fetish photographs — photographs related to sexual fetishism and fetishistic acts .
a nightclub ,  bar ,  social club or other entertainment hub which caters to clientele interested in some of  ( but not necessarily all )  fetish fashion ,  bondage ,  dominance / submission ,  and / or sadism and masochism  ( bdsm )  .
any style or appearance in the form of a type of clothing or accessory ,  created to be extreme or provocative in a fetishistic manner .
an umbrella term ,  introduced by christodoulou  ( in his book the delusional misidentification syndromes ,  karger ,  basel ,  1986 )  for a group of delusional disorders that occur in the context of mental and neurological illness .
any of various syndromes in which delusional beliefs form the core symptomatology .
a type of monothematic delusion where one denies ownership of a limb or an entire side of one's body .
any of various somatoform disorders in which one presents an inaccurate perception of the condition of body or mind despite the absence of an actual medical diagnosis .
preoccupations with appearance or self - image causing significant distress or impairment in important areas of functioning .
a subtype of body dysmorphic disorder in which a person perceives their body as too small .
a delusional disorder in which one believes that another person ,  often a prominent figure ,  is in love with the individual .
any body of publications purported to be scholarly or supported by critical scholarship but which fails to comply with scholarly standards .
statements ,  beliefs ,  or practices that are claimed to be both scientific and factual but are incompatible with the scientific method .
any practice that aims to achieve the healing effects of medicine ,  but which lacks biological plausibility and is untested ,  untestable or proven ineffective .
a physical treatment primarily used by physical therapists ,  physiotherapists to treat musculoskeletal pain and disability ;  it mostly includes kneading and manipulation of muscles ,  joint mobilization and joint manipulation .
the application of non - invasive finger pressure along energy points throughout the body in order to relieve pain and induce a feeling of well - being .
a form of japanese bodywork based on concepts in traditional chinese medicine such as the use of chi meridians .
a sexual fetish that involves role - playing a regression to an adolescent - like state .
a sexual fetish in which an individual is attracted to statues .
sexual arousal obtained via an imagined struggle before overpowering their partner  ( as a form of rape play ,  rape fantasy ,  or "pseudo - rape" )  .
sexual arousal from being in public places or an unusual sexual excitement involved in having sex in such an "exposed" area .
sexual arousal based on the knowledge that others may become aware of the individual or individuals engaging in sexaul intercourse  ( usually as a result of being overheard )  .
sexual arousal resulting from experiencing pain .
condition of being unable to orgasm without fantasizing or visualizing about an individual or individuals other than a person's partner or partners .
sexual arousal from a person's partner or partners not being able to see for any of various reasons or from having sex in total darkness .
sexual arousal from darkness or partial darkness ;  or an ability to only experience arousal in such situations .
a person who has undergone amputation ,  i .e .
a kiss in which a person's lips contact another person's anus .
the act of touching the anus in a way that causes involuntary twitching movements or laughter .
licking of the anus as a form of sexual arousal .
an act in which someone inserts their penis in their anus .
any suction exerted by the mouth ;  response of the mammalian infant to draw milk from the breast .
sucking of the finger .this is one of the most common manipulations of the body found in young children .
sucking of the penis ,  especially during sexual intercourse or specifically during penile ejaculation .
sucking of the vagina ,  especially during sexual intercourse .
sucking of the anus ,  especially during sexual intercourse .
a sexual attraction to significantly taller or shorter people .
a sexual attraction to significantly shorter people  ( or preferring a shorter partner generally )  .
a cartoon of non - human animal or object which is given humanoid features .
eating other individuals of one's own species .
in animals ,  eating other individuals of one's own species .
an instance in which a person eats another person or consumes the flesh of another person .
a situation in which a member of a species cannibalizes another prior to ,  or after ,  copulation .
sexual arousal from cannibalism preceded by rape .
the practice of eating one's self or part of one's self .
a form of pica in which a part bites ,  eats ,  or attempts to eat parts of one's own body .
the compulsive eating of hair associated with trichotillomania  ( hair pulling )  .
co - occurring necrophilia and cannibalism .
a practice of cannibalism in one's own locality or community .
the consumption of flesh outside one's close social group—for example ,  eating one's enemy .
cannibalism of the corpse of a person who is already dead .
cannibalism of the corpse of a person after killing them ,  typically for food .
feeding on corpses or carrion .
the consumption of animal flesh .
the act of eating young women or virgins .
chemical agents or odorants that stimulate sexual desires .
an aphrodisiac which is created through a natural process .
an aphrodisiac which is created through a synthetic process .
an error in consistency of the characteristics of people ,  plot ,  objects ,  and places seen by the reader or viewer over some period of time .
a gap or inconsistency in a storyline that goes against the flow of logic established by the story's plot .
a type of plot hole which is not realized at first because a person was so caught up in the story ,  characters ,  and events of a particular story .
a type of fridge logic which becomes terrifying given the realization of said fridge logc .
a legal gender  ( or gender marker )  that appears on any of various identity documents .
a legal gender  ( or gender marker )  that appears on a driver's license .
a legal gender  ( or gender marker )  that appears on a passport .
a legal gender  ( or gender marker )  that appears on a birth certificate .
a legal gender  ( or gender marker )  that appears on a death certificate .
a legal gender  ( or gender marker )  that appears on a social security card .
an administrative gender  ( or gender marker )  that is registered with an insurance provider of some kind .
an administrative gender  ( or gender marker )  that is registered with a health insurance provider .
an administrative gender  ( or gender marker )  that is registered with a vehicle insurance provider .
an action taken over the course of or as the result of a legal process .
an official proclamation by a judge  ( or panel of judges )  that defines the legal relationships between the parties to a hearing ,  a trial ,  an appeal or other court proceedings .
a court order which states that an individual's legal name should be changed .
a court order which states that an individual's legal gender  ( and / or gender marker )  should be changed .
kinds of transphobia which manifest in the forms of social marginalization and discrimination  ( including violence against transgender people ,  hate speech ,  social exclusion ,  ridicule ,  etc .
slang related to sex work or utilized by those engaged by such work .
a person whose status as a eunuch forms part of their profession .
an extremely rare developmental abnormality in which a person is born with two penises .
a type of penis resulting from diphallia .
eroticism primarily deriving from the insertion of the arm in the anus .
a person who identifies as a woman and as nonbinary .
a person who identifies as a man and as nonbinary .
a person who is panromantic .
persons organized by their given relationship orientation or orientations .
a person who is polyamorous ;  alternatively ,  a person who identifies as polyamorous .
a person who is monogamous ;  alternatively ,  a person who identifies as monogamous .
a group whose romantic orientation differs from the majority of the surrounding society .
a person who is lithromantic .
a person who identifies as megasexual .
experiencing of sexual attraction toward persons with which one lacks strong emotional connections until forming a strong sexual connection first .
sexual attraction in which strong emotional bonds can only  ( or mostly )  be formed after forming a sexual connection .
the spatial property of a body ;  where it is or the way in which it is situated .
the act of moving the entire or whole body .
the state or act of one who sits ;  the posture of one who occupies a seat .
a sexual practice in which one partner sits on or over the other's face ,  typically to allow or force oral–genital or oral–anal contact .
a low seat which fits over the submissive's face and contains an opening to allow oral - genital and / or oral - anal stimulation of the domme while seated .
a form of queening stool which also allows the person under the seat to be locked in place ,  restrained by the neck as in a set of stocks .
a form of blog for which the medium is video ,  and is a form of web television .
a video blog  ( vlog )  related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  subjects ,  and / or culture .
sexual arousal and pleasure from nasal mucus .
sexual arousal and pleasure from perspiration  ( sweat )  .
the practice of promoting and imposing a culture ,  usually that of a politically powerful nation ,  over a less powerful society ;  in other words ,  the cultural hegemony of industrialized or politically and economically influential countries which determine general cultural values and standardize civilizations throughout the world .
a conceptualization of those with identities other than one's own that they are somehow lesser ,  demonic ,  evil ,  savage ,  or otherwise inferior to oneself .
a conceptualization of those with identities other than one's own that they are inherently fascinating in their assumed primitiveness or undevelopedness .
racism which is greatly influenced by ,  or related to ,  colonialism and the effects of colonialism .
the critical academic study of the cultural legacy of colonialism and imperialism ,  focusing on the human consequences of the control and exploitation of colonized people and their lands .
the analysis of texts which aims to uncover or surmise colonialist and anticolonialist ideologies present in those texts .
a postcolonial theory which designates and identifies colonial populations who are socially ,  politically ,  and geographically excluded from the hierarchy of power of an imperial colony and from the metropolitan homeland of an empire as subalterns .
the tendency to look at the world primarily from the perspective of a european  ( usually western european ,  especially during the cold war )  lens .
the literature by people from formerly colonized countries .
a postcolonial theory which reevaluates the assumption of colonial identity through the repetition of discriminatory identity effects .
a process by which a person comes to adopt behaviors and / or traits of a dominant culture while maintaining elements of their minority culture .
a group whose relationship status or relationship orientation  ( sociosexual orientation )  differ from the majority of the surrounding society .
the visually perceived property of objects created by absorption or reflection of specific wavelengths of light .
any of a variety of colors with hue between red and blue .
the hue of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between orange and green ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 570 to 590 nanometers ;  any of a group of colors of a hue resembling that of ripe lemons and varying in lightness and saturation .
any of a group of colors between red and yellow in hue that are medium to low in lightness and low to moderate in saturation .
a shade of the standard  ( h = 240° )  blue .
variations of this color are known as sky blue ,  baby blue ,  or angel blue .
a shade of cyan  ( greenish - blue color )  ,  approximating the shade of the eggs laid by the american robin .
the hue of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between yellow and blue ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 490 to 570 nanometers ;  any of a group of colors that may vary in lightness and saturation and whose hue is that of the emerald or somewhat less yellow than that of growing grass .
a dark brownish red or dark reddish purple color that takes its name from the french word marron ,  or chestnut .
the hue of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between red and yellow ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 590 to 630 nanometers ;  any of a group of colors between red and yellow in hue ,  of medium lightness and moderate saturation .
the hue of the long - wave end of the visible spectrum ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 630 to 750 nanometers ;  any of a group of colors that may vary in lightness and saturation and whose hue resembles that of blood .
a sexual attraction toward aliens .
a decentralized political and social movement advocating for non - violent civil disobedience in protest against incidents of police brutality and all racially motivated violence against black people .
a part of the black lives matter movement which specifically advocates for black trans people  ( especially black trans women )  and fights for racial equity and black liberation .
any of various rules and aphorisms loosely connected by virtue of being codes of conduct or conventions related to the internet .
one of the "rules of the internet" which speculates that " [ i ] f it exists ,  there is porn of it .
a type of linguistic prescription which intends to emphasize personhood above a particular characteristic or diagnosis ,  describing what a person "has" rather than asserting what a person "is" .
a sex classification based on absence and / or presence of various organs ;  note that such a classification may be limiting as a precise "hierarchy" of organs is not typically possible  ( for instance ,  does presence of a prostate "outrank" presence of a vagina or presence of breasts? )  .
a sex classification based on absence and / or presence of internal organs .
a sex classification based on absence and / or presence of externally visible organs .
a person's gender as represented or recognized in any of various administrative systems .
sex as observed from clinical records or direct clinical observations .
sex as observed from any of various types of clinical imaging ,  such as x - rays or ultrasounds .
a grouping of black persons ,  indigenous persons ,  and people of color which emphasizes common experiences of marginalization and discrimination ,  while also calling to mind shared histories of imperialization and colonization .
any of various lgbtqia +  organizations composed of and / or primarily for motorcyclists .
a device which is inserted into something ;  more generally ,  anything that is inserted into anything else .
any of various objects or things inserted into the body .
any of various things inserted into the genitalia or designed to be inserted into the genitalia .
any of various things inserted into the anal cavity or designed to be inserted into the anal cavity .
any of various things inserted into the vagina or designed to be inserted into the vagina .
any of various relationship types considered abusive .
film festivals focused on lesbian culture and / or lesbians .
the use of intentional violence for political or religious purposes .
a type of religious violence where terrorism is used as a tactic to achieve religious goals or which are influenced by religious identity .
a musician who plays a musical instrument .
a musician who plays any of various percussion instruments .
a percussionist who creates music using drums .
a female percussionist who creates music using drums .
music with wide appeal that is typically distributed to large audiences through the music industry .
music considered to be of high aesthetic value .
a broad genre of popular music that originated as "rock and roll" in the united states in the late 1940s and early 1950s ,  developing into a range of different styles in the mid - 1960s and later ,  particularly in the united states and the united kingdom .
a category of rock music that emerged from the independent music underground of the 1970s and became widely popular in the 1990s .
a music genre that emerged in the mid - 1970s .
a punk rock music genre and subculture that originated in the late 1970s .
a music genre that originated in the african - american communities of new orleans ,  united states in the late 19th and early 20th centuries ,  with its roots in blues and ragtime .
a music genre and musical form which was originated in the deep south of the united states around the 1870s by african - americans from roots in african musical traditions ,  african - american work songs ,  and spirituals .
art music produced or rooted in the traditions of european culture or cultures ,  including both liturgical  ( religious )  and secular music .
a period or style of western art music composed from approximately 1600 to 1750 .
a genre of popular music that originated in its modern form during the mid - 1950s in the united states and the united kingdom .
a stylistic movement in western orchestral music associated with the period of the nineteenth century commonly referred to as the romantic era  ( or romantic period )  .
generally ,  music from the medieval era and the renaissance era .
vocal and instrumental music written and performed in europe during the medieval era .
vocal and instrumental music written and performed in europe during the renaissance era .
a puerto rican woman who is a lesbian .
puerto rican persons who are lgbtqia +  .
the number of intentional homicides of lgbtqia +  persons per given unit of population over a given period of time .
any of various surveys related to lgbtqia +  persons ,  culture ,  and / or movements .
any of various surveys related to transgender persons ,  culture ,  and / or movements .
any of various personal names deriving from the name ( s )  of the land ( s )  or other properties an individual owns .
a system describing the choice of personal name in a certain society .
the order of individual parts of a personal name when arranged as a full name .
any of various parts of a personal name derived from a person's grandfather's name .
any of various parts of a personal name derived from the name of a person's clan ;  alternatively ,  the name of the clan itself .
any of various names used for individual human beings  ( personal names )  or groups of human beings .
a personal name is which is a singular name ,  not split into parts ,  as opposed to a polynym .
a personal name which is made up of multiple parts  ( such as a given name and a family name )  as opposed to a mononym .
the "real" name  ( typically meaning the legal name )  of a person who uses a pseudonym .
a word that identifies a group of people  ( inhabitants ,  residents ,  natives )  in relation to a particular place .
a name applied to a given ethnic group .
a name applied to an ethnic group which has been created by another group of people .
a name applied to an ethnic group which has been created and is used by those belonging to that ethnic group .
the name of one or more imaginary character ( s )  created by a writer to write in different styles .
any of various parts of a personal name derived from a person's mother's name .
any of various parts of a personal name derived from a person's father's name .
any of various parts of a personal name derived from a person's child's name .
the name  ( or names )  used by monarchs and popes during their reigns and ,  subsequently ,  historically .
a name used for professional purposes by a professional wrestler ,  martial artist or boxer .
the levels of excellence which characterize the health service or health care provided based on accepted standards of quality .
inequality based upon health care quality ,  access ,  and treatment .
differences in health outcomes based primarily on ,  or otherwise tied to ,  race and / or racialization .
health inequalities which arise in differences in disease patterns related to morbidity and mortality rates which emerge as a result of social characteristics .
a measure of life expectancy based upon the period in which a person was born .
the mean length of life of an actual birth cohort  ( all individuals born in a given year )  and can be computed only for cohorts born many decades ago ,  so that all their members have died .
the mean length of life of a hypothetical cohort assumed to be exposed ,  from birth through death ,  to the mortality rates observed at a given year .
the study of numbers ,  shapes ,  patterns ,  and logical reasoning .
the application of mathematical methods by different fields such as physics ,  engineering ,  medicine ,  biology ,  business ,  computer science ,  and industry .
a branch of applied mathematics concerned with the collection and interpretation of quantitative data and the use of probability theory to estimate population parameters .
government records of live births ,  fetal deaths ,  marriages ,  divorces ,  and deaths that occur within that jurisdiction .
a block of text which has been copied and pasted from somewhere else .
a philosophical tradition that anticipates modern feminism in an era when the concept of feminism was still unknown ,  i . e . before the 20th century .
any of various cryptolects used in various professions and occupations to hide the subject of discussion from uninitiated listeners .
a kind of survey which explores characteristics in households ,  such as fertility ,  family structure ,  and demographics .
a hypertext publication collaboratively edited and managed by its own audience directly using a web browser .
a sequence of single - stranded dna which is complementary to messenger rna or dna that has been synthesized from messenger rna by reverse transcriptase .
a sequence of nucleotides in dna or rna which encode the synthesis of a gene product ,  either rna or protein .
a sequence which is found multiple times in a genome and also in other species ,  showing a common function between those organisms .
a sequence of nucleotides in a gene which do not encode an rna or protein product .
politics which relate to political parties ;  often used in a derogatory manner to note the most of parties rather than on the good of the general public .
a kind of party politics which supports social equality and egalitarianism ,  often in opposition to social hierarchy .
a kind of party politics which represents the view that certain social orders and hierarchies are inevitable ,  natural ,  normal ,  or desirable ,  typically supporting this position on the basis of natural law ,  economics ,  or tradition .
politics further to the left of the left–right political spectrum than the standard political left .
politics further on the right of the left–right political spectrum than the standard political right ,  particularly in terms of extremist nationalism ,  nativist ideologies and authoritarian tendencies .
any of various pseudoscientific movements which purport the conspiracy that vaccination causes other health problems ,  autism ,  homosexuality ,  and gender dysphoria ,  among other things .
a mistaken belief or a wrong idea pertaining to vaccines or vaccination .
a legal gender  ( or gender marker )  that appears on a person's original  ( or first )  birth certificate .
assigned gender is one's gender which was assigned at birth ,  typically by a medical and / or legal organization ,  and then later registered with other organizations .
the subfield of transgender studies dealing specifically with transgender youth .
may refer to  ( 1 )  a branch of separatist feminism in the transgender community which advocates for separation from cisgender society in general ;   ( 2 )  a form of separatism within certain segments of the transgender community which aim to differentiate being "true" transgender people and "fake" transgender people  ( such as persons who follow the harry benjamin syndrome philosophy ,  self - identified autogynephiles ,  and transmedicalists )  ;  or  ( 3 )  separation of transness from the lgbt  ( or lgbtqia +  )  community .
stong or extreme  ( and often vengeful )  anger or indignation .
stong or extreme  ( and often vengeful )  anger or indignation on the part of teh lgbtqia +  community .
stong or extreme  ( and often vengeful )  anger or indignation on the part of teh gay male community .
gender as recorded by any of various institutions ,  organizations ,  writings ,  etc .
sex as defined in a specific medical and clinical context .
a type of neopronoun derived from a pre - existing word in order for it to be used in a gender - neutral pronoun set .
a person who uses nounself pronouns .
a pronoun  ( or set of pronouns )  derived from otherkin people or in use by an otherkin person .
a kind of gender - neutral pronoun set derived from or using an emoji or series of emoji characters .
a pronoun or set of pronouns that an individual likes less than their primary pronoun set or sets ,  but still allows to be used to refer to themself .
a lesbian who uses he / him pronouns .
a lesbian who uses they / them pronouns .
a gay person who uses she / her pronouns .
a form of gender nonconformity in which one uses neopronouns or pronouns in a non - standard manner .
a person who is a woman or who is woman - aligned who is attracted to other women or woman - aligned people .
a person who is a man or who is man - aligned who is attracted to other men or man - aligned people .
a nonbinary person who experiences sexual attraction outside of binary constructs ;  alternatively ,  a nonbinary person who is attracted to other nonbinary people .
a punk music genre which is distinguished by lyrics exploring themes of prejudice and dealing with issues such as sexual identity ,  gender identity and the rights of the individual ;  more generally ,  queercore bands offer a critique of society endemic to their position within it ,  sometimes in a light - hearted way ,  sometimes seriously .
an offshoot of queercore punk music which focuses more specifically on gender identity and gender issues ,  especially as they relate to transgender people .
music composed specifically to facilitate or accompany dancing .
a broad range of percussive electronic music genres made largely for nightclubs ,  raves and festivals .
music that employs electronic musical instruments ,  digital instruments and circuitry - based music technology .
any of a broad group of electronic - based music styles such as techno ,  house ,  ambient ,  jungle and other styles intended not just for dancing .
a genre of electronic dance music characterized by a repetitive four on the floor beat and a tempo of 120 to 130 beats per minute .
an anthemic subgenre of house music that became most popular in gay clubs during the second half of the 1990s .
a genre of popular music developed in the united states by inner - city african americans and latino americans in the bronx borough of new york city in the 1970s .
an informal grouping of artists identifying as members of the lgbtqia +  community into a subgenre of hip hop .
music which has been remixed using electronic elements ;  alternatively ,  any music which has been remixed which takes advantage of electronics for creation and / or playback .
a genre of music in which a cover track is sped up from its source material by 10 - 30% .
a type of lyric music created in which the track is slowed down in order to make the singer's voice sound as that person's "trans" doppelgänger .
sex of a fetus that has not undergone the processes of sexual differentiation ,  which dies at or after 20 or 28 weeks of pregnancy ,  as the result of a stillbirth .
a legal gender  ( or gender marker )  that appears on a person's most recent birth certificate .
an act or state of being sentimental ,  i .e .
a sentimentality for the past ,  typically for a period or place with happy personal associations .
a nostalgia sometimes felt by a gay person as a longing to be heterosexual in order to avoid stigma ,  discrimination ,  and violence which results from being a gay person .
a nostalgia sometimes felt by a transgender person as a longing to be cisgender in order to avoid stigma ,  discrimination ,  and violence which results from being a transgender person .
a term frequently used by social services agencies in the united states to describe a juvenile who is not currently in the household of a parent or legal guardian ,  or is currently not under their control as evidenced by the person's status offense ,  who is not an emancipated minor .
the judgment of the merits and faults of the work or actions of an individual or group by another .
the act of censuring ,  holding responsible ,  making negative statements about an individual or group that their action or actions are socially or morally irresponsible ,  the opposite of praise .
the practice of holding the victim of a crime or other wrongful act wholly or partially responsible for what befell them .
when a victim of an event is shamed for the event occurring ;  for instance ,  shaming of a victim of rape ,  domestic abuse ,  or sexual harassment .
a gender modality in which one is moving toward a particular gender or gender presentation .
a gender modality in which one has multiple genders ,  one of which matches their assigned gender at birth while at least one other does not ,  meaning that they are both cis and trans .
a term used to refer to the gender modality of a cisgender intersex person .
a term used to refer to the gender modality of a transgender intersex person .
an intersex person who is transgender .
an intersex person who is cisgender .
an individual’s name ,  as opposed to their birth name  ( or deadname )  .
gender as assumed based on a person's appearance ,  gender expression ,  and / or performance of gender stereotypes .
the gender in which an individual lives their everyday life .
the gender with which a person identifies .
any of various gender identities which occur in a specific cultural context outside of a binary gender system .
a datum representing that a person's gender identity is not known for any of various reasons .
a datum representing when an individual does not wish to disclose their gender identity ,  thereby making their gender identity unknown .
a datum representing a person's gender identity which is not listed .
an indication that no gender identity has developed ;  use for neonates whose assigned sex at birth is "undifferentiated" .
an assignment of an "x" gender shortly after birth .
use in situations where no gender was assigned at birth ;  i .e .
an assignment of an intersex gender marker shortly after birth .
circumcision during adulthood .
circumcision of an infant ,  typically an individual under one year of age .
circumcision of the penis during infanthood .
circumcision during childhood .
circumcision of the penis during childhood .
a type of erotic dance performance offered in some strip clubs in which the dancer typically has body contact with a seated patron .
an erotic dance performed at  ( or on )  a table or bar ,  as opposed to on a stage .
events pertaining to given aspects of film .
events pertaining to a variety of kinds of arts ,  although typically focusing on performing arts .
an entertainment show made up of a variety of acts including musical performances ,  sketch comedy ,  magic ,  acrobatics ,  juggling ,  and ventriloquism .
a kind of variety show derived from elements of victorian burlesque ,  music hall and minstrel shows .
a kind of variety show featuring music ,  song ,  dance ,  recitation ,  or drama .
a theatrical genre involving elements derived from victorian burlesque ,  music hall and minstrel shows .
a form of theatrical entertainment featuring music ,  song ,  dance ,  recitation ,  or drama .
a theatrical genre derived from elements of victorian burlesque ,  music hall and minstrel shows .
the revival and updating of the traditional american burlesque performance .
neo - burlesque shows that feature male - body roles have been dubbed as boylesque .
an assignment of an "other" gender marker shortly after birth .
refers to either  ( 1 )  femininity as expressed by travestis ;  or  ( 2 )  an official legal transfeminine non - binary gender marker allowed through judicial ruling in 2019 .
an assignment of an indeterminate gender marker shortly after birth .
an assignment of a nonbinary gender shortly after birth .
an assignment of an "u" gender shortly after birth .
an assignment of a diverse gender marker shortly after birth .
an assignment of a "eunuch" gender marker shortly after birth .
an assignment of a "third gender" gender marker shortly after birth .
an assignment of an "unspecified" gender shortly after birth .
a gender  ( or gender marker )  assigned to an individual by themselves as part of the right to self - determination .
a birth certificate which has been amended for any of various reasons .
a type of birth certificate allowed if the birth occurred at a person's home or house .
a certificate which documents a particular individual's citizenship status .
a type of birth certificate which typically includes name ,  place and date of birth ,  parental information ,  date of issue ,  date of registration ,  registration number ,  certificate number ,  and authorised signature ( s )  .
a type of birth certificate which typically includes name ,  place and date of birth ,  date of issue ,  date of registration ,  registration number ,  certificate number ,  and authorised signature ( s )  .
a type of quebec birth certificated issued with regard to a birth that occurred outside of quebec ,  under paragraph 137 of the civil code of québec ,  until their full authenticity is recognized by a quebec court .
a type of birth certificate issued from 1963 until november 1979 by the department of national defense in canada to dependents of canadian forces members born overseas .
a birth certificate issued by a public notary by way of presenting supporting documents .
a birth certificate issued in a medical context .
a type of birth certificate issued to persons born in denmark and baptized in the church of denmark .
a type of birth certificate issued to persons born in denmark and not baptized in the church of denmark .
a birth certificate originating in a foreign country  ( often as opposed to country of residence )  .
a type of birth certificate issued to indonesian - born individuals ,  per the denpasar civil registry .
a type of birth certificate issued to indonesian - born individuals ,  per the denpasar civil registry .
a type of birth certificate issued to indonesian - born individuals ,  per the denpasar civil registry .
a type of birth certificate which has been certified by any of various persons and / or organizations ,  depending on the jurisdiction .
a birth certificate issued directly after or very soon at birth of an individual .
an individual's first birth certificate ,  which may or may not be their birth certificate at birth .
in singapore ,  a birth certificate received after the registration of birth at the immigration and checkpoints authority .
in singapore ,  a birth certificate issued for all subsequent requests for birth certificates following the certificate of registration of birth .
a birth cerificate sometimes given out in some hospitals in the united states ,  which may include the footprints of the newborn .
an amended birth certificate which replaces an original birth certificate after an adoption is finalized in most states in the united states  ( and the district of columbia )  .
a certificate issued in some jurisdictions in the united states for foreign - born intercountry adoptees .
conformity to societally - based gender expectations .
damage to the skin .
a permanent mark left on the skin in the process of wound healing .
a penile scar remaining following circumcision .
an internet aesthetic that celebrates a return to traditional skills and crafts such as foraging ,  baking ,  and pottery ,  and is related to similar nostalgic aesthetic movements such as grandmacore ,  farmcore ,  goblincore ,  and faeriecore .
a lesbian who is cottagecore or engages with cottagecore ,  an internet aesthetic that celebrates a return to traditional skills and crafts such as foraging ,  baking ,  and pottery .
an lgbtq subculture  ( particularly bisexual female subculture and lesbian subculture )  following the aesthetic of cottagecore .
any of various karyotypes observed in humans .
a karyotype in which every cell has only one x chromosome .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 45 , x and some are 46 , xx .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 45 , x and some are 46 , xy .
a karyotype in which every cell has two x chromosomes .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 46 , xx and some are 46 , xx ,  + 12 .
a karyotype in which every cell has one x chromosome and one y chromosome .
a karyotype in which every cell has two x chromosomes and two copies of chromosome 21 .
a karyotype in which every cell has three x chromosomes .
a karyotype in which every cell has two x chromosomes and one y chromosome .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 47 , xxy and some are 46 , xx .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 47 , xxy and some are 46 , xy .
a karyotype in which every cell has one x chromosome ,  one y chromosome ,  and two copies of chromosome 21 .
a karyotype in which every cell has two y chromosomes and one x chromosome .
a karyotype in which every cell has three x chromosomes and two copies of chromosome 21 .
a karyotype in which every cell has four x chromosomes .
a karyotype in which every cell has three x chromosomes and one y chromosome .
a karyotype in which every cell has two x chromosomes and two y chromosomes .
a karyotype in which every cell has an x chromosomes and three y chromosomes .
a karyotype in which every cell has five x chromosomes .
a karyotype in which every cell has four x chromosomes and one y chromosome .
a karyotype in which every cell has three x chromosomes and two y chromosomes .
a karyotype in which every cell has an x chromosome and four y chromosomes .
an extremely rare karyotype resulting from two errors:  ( 1 )  a prezygotic error which created a 45 , x zygote ,  and  ( 2 )  an endoreduplication of the chromosomes resulting in a tetraploidy of the autosomes and diploidy of the sex chromosomes .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 46 , xx and some are 46 , xy .
a type of mosaicism in which some cells with three copies of each chromosome for a total of 69 chromosomes  ( called triploid cells )  and some cells with the usual 2 copies of each chromosome for a total of 46 chromosomes  ( called diploid cells )  .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 46 , xx and some are 69 , xxx .
a chromosomal condition in which a fetus has three copies of every chromosome in some cells and two copies of every chromosome in others .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 46 , x and some are 90 , xx .
a nonbinary person who identifies as a lesbian .
an asexual person who identifies as a lesbian .
physiologic period ,  characterized by endocrine ,  somatic ,  and psychic changes with the termination of ovarian function in the female .
a term that is not an adjective but serves the same purpose ,  as "so" in "it is less so than we had expected" .
a sub - class of determiners which modify a noun by attributing possession  ( or other sense of belonging )  to someone or something .
a transgender person who identifies as a gender within a given binary gender system or as binary  ( i .e .
a language in which certain classes of pronouns may be omitted when they are pragmatically or grammatically inferable .
a language in which pronouns cannot be omitted ,  even when they are pragmatically or grammatically inferable .
a language whose grammar permits an independent clause to lack an explicit subject ;  such a clause is then said to have a null subject .
the process by which a nonbinary person or people is made the subject of sexual obsession .
any media that are encoded in machine - readable formats .
an audio program produced on a regular basis ,  delivered over the internet in a compressed digital format and designed for playback on computers or portable digital audio players .
a video program produced on a regular basis ,  delivered over the internet in a compressed digital format and designed for playback on computers or portable digital video players .
an audio or video program produced on a regular basis ,  delivered over the internet in a compressed digital format and designed for playback on computers or portable digital audio players .
software simulating environments in which players use text commands to control characters and influence the environment .
a video game in which the player assumes the role of a protagonist in an interactive story driven by exploration and puzzle - solving .
a style of japanese young adult novel primarily targeting high school and middle school students .
an interactive fiction video game genre ,  which originated in japan ,  featuring text - based story with narrative style of literature and interactivity aided by static or sprite - based visuals ,  most often using anime - style art or occasionally live - action stills  ( and sometimes video footage )  .
a person who shares the same physical body with other individuals .
a person who is considered to have a typical mental status or condition ,  or series of statuses or conditions ,  within the context of mental health ,  psychology ,  and socio - cultural context .
a person who is not autistic or otherwise on the autism spectrum .
any of various conditions related to personality .
the psychological phenomenon in which a body can display multiple distinct personas .
a person whose plurality is related to a traumatic ,  or series of traumatic ,  experiences .
a person who is not plural .
any of various gestures made primarily by the hands and arms .
any of various gestures not made primarily by the hands and arms .
one or more motions or positions of the muscles beneath the skin of the face .
any of various measurements which involve geometric components .
the magnitude or dimensions of a thing .
a measure of size for any of various organisms .
a measure of size for any of various animals .
a measure of size for humans .
the size of a human penis ,  based on any of various measures ,  including length and circumference when flaccid and erect .
the physical measurements of a body .
a birth weight of a infant of 2 , 499 g  ( 5 lb 8 .1 oz )  or less ,  regardless of gestational age ,  as defined by the world health organization  ( who )  .
a birth weight that is less than 1 , 500 g  ( 3 lb 5 oz )  .
a birth weight that is less than 1 , 000 g  ( 2 lb 3 oz )  .
the physical measurements of a body shortly after birth .
any of various measurements of a body .
the categorization of a person's body frame into small ,  medium and large based on the measurement of wrist circumference or the breadth of the elbow .
the height of a human or any of various parts of a human .
the weight of a human or any of various parts of a human .
the height of a human body .
the weight of a human body .
the weight of an infant .
the birth of a human being .
defined by the world health organization as "the death of a woman while pregnant or within 42 days of termination of pregnancy ,  irrespective of the duration and site of the pregnancy ,  from any cause related to or aggravated by the pregnancy or its management but not from accidental or incidental causes ."
the number of maternal deaths in a population divided by the number of women of reproductive age ,  usually expressed per 1 , 000 women .
the event that a fetus is born dead or stillborn .
childbirth before 37 weeks of pregnancy  ( 259 days from the first day of the mother's last menstrual period ,  or 245 days after fertilization )  .
spontaneous preterm birth
multiple fetuses birthed live or dead in a single pregnancy regardless of gestational age ,  and regardless of whether the fetuses were birthed on different dates .
birth at greater than or equal to 42 weeks and 0 days .
spontaneous labor and birth at term without the use of pharmacologic and / or mechanical interventions for labor stimulation or pain management throughout labor and birth .
labor and sometimes delivery that occurs in water ,  usually a birthing pool .
a birth that takes place in a residence rather than in a hospital or a birthing center .
a legal cause of action in some common law countries in which the parents of a congenitally diseased child claim that their doctor failed to properly warn of their risk of conceiving or giving birth to a child with serious genetic or congenital abnormalities .
the expulsion of a nonviable fetus through the vaginal opening of the decomposing body of a deceased pregnant woman as a result of the increasing pressure of intra - abdominal gases .
the birth of an infant in places or situations other than what was planned .
natural birth in which the person giving birth has a completely free range of movement  ( not being confined to a bed ,  for instance )  during labor and the birthing process .
the process of intentionally giving birth without the assistance of a medical birth attendant .
birth when a fetus is less than 28 weeks gestational age .
birth when a fetus is between 34 weeks and 0 days through 36 weeks and 6 days gestational age .
birth when a fetus is between 28 weeks and less than 32 weeks gestational age .
birth when a fetus is between 32 weeks and less than 37 weeks gestational age .
preterm birth from 20 weeks to 36 weeks ,  and 6 days of gestation that is necessitated by the medical condition of the mother or fetus .
birth at greater than or equal to 37 weeks using best estimated due date .
process of idea or image formation .
a thought or patterns of thought in which an individual generates a specific idea regarding their killing someone else  ( committing a homicide )  .
a thought or patterns of thought in which an individual generates a specific idea regarding their own suicide .
the social stigma associated with mental health ,  mental health services ,  mental health conditions ,  and mental health issues / conditions .
any of various languages that use the visual - manual modality to convey meaning .
a gestural communication system ,  often invented spontaneously by a deaf child who lacks accessible linguistic input .
any of various cultures or subcultures defined by disability in any of its various forms and / or having members who have a disability or disabilities .
the set of social beliefs ,  behaviors ,  art ,  literary traditions ,  history ,  values ,  and shared institutions of communities that are influenced by deafness and which use sign languages as the main means of communication .
the killing or assassination of a tyrant or unjust ruler ,  usually for the common good ,  and usually by one of the tyrant's subjects .
the study of the ethical issues emerging from advances in biology and medicine .
frequent repetition of the same behavior ;  way of behavior common to many ;  ordinary manner ;  habitual practice ;  method of doing ,  living or behaving .
a belief or behavior that is passed from generation to generation in a family ,  a culture ,  or a religion .
an inherited ,  established or customary religious practice or series of beliefs .
any of various religions originating in the middle east .
any of various religions originating in east asia .
any of various religions originating on the indian subcontinent .
any of various religions originating in africa  ( or via african diaspora )  .
any of various religions originating in the americas .
any of various religions originating in oceania .
any of various religions originating in ancient greece and ancient rome ,  as well as their hellenistic descendants .
the collection of beliefs ,  rituals ,  and mythology originating in ancient greece in the form of both popular public religion and cult practices .
the ancestral ethnic religion of the city of rome that the romans used to define themselves as a people ,  as well as the religious practices of peoples brought under roman rule ,  in so far as they became widely followed in rome and italy .
performance of a religious act one or more times .
philosophical thinking that is inspired and directed by a particular religion .
a belief which derives from religious ideas ,  ideas about religion ,  or considers ideas about supernatural beings or divine intervention .
a system of beliefs ;  a set of principles which form the basis of a religion ,  philosophy ,  or moral code .
any of a range of both religious and nonreligious attitudes characterized by the absence of espoused belief in a god or gods .
belief in the existence of a supreme being or deities .
belief in one god .
belief in multiple deities ,  which are usually assembled into a pantheon of gods and goddesses ,  along with their own religions and rituals .
in the broadest sense ,  an absence of belief in the existence of deities .
the view that the existence of a god or gods ,  of the divine or the supernatural is unknown or unknowable .
a vaginoplasty procedure in which a functional vagina is constructed and the penis is left intact .
any surgical procedure that results in the construction or reconstruction of the vulva .
surgical repair of the vulva .
surgical repair of the scrotum .
the surgical removal of all or part of the scrotum .
surgical resection of the scrotum .
any of various surgeries for gender confirmation which involve removal of all genital structures ,  with preservation of the urethra .
any of a variety of surgical procedures that alter anatomical traits to provide physical traits more comfortable to the nonbinary person's gender identity and functioning .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the face .
any of various glucocoricoids which act as a steroid hormone .
a group of hydroxycorticosteroids bearing a hydroxy group at the 17 - position .
a group of corticosteroids carrying hydroxy groups ,  usually in the 11 -  or 17 - positions .
decreased or absent activity of the enzyme 17 - alpha - hydroxylase / 17 , 20 lyase due to loss - of - function mutation ( s )  in the cyp17a1 gene .
a rare form of congenital adrenal hyperplasia which is caused by steroid 17α - hydroxylase deficiency .
any of various regimens related to contraceptive use .
any of various regimens of oral contraceptives .
any of various regimens involving combined oral contraceptives  ( cocs )  .
a regimen of combined oral contraceptives in which 21 days of active contraceptive pills are followed by a hormone - free interval  ( hfi )  of 7 placebo pills .
a regimen of combined oral contraceptives in which 24 days of active contraceptive pills are followed by a hormone - free interval  ( hfi )  of 4 placebo pills .
an oral contraceptive pill taken as part of an 84 + 7 oral contraceptive regimen .
an oral contraceptive pill taken as part of a 365 + 0 oral contraceptive regimen .
an oral contraceptive pill taken as part of a 21 + 7 oral contraceptive regimen .
a regimen of combined oral contraceptives in which 84 days of active contraceptive pills are followed by a hormone - free interval  ( hfi )  of 7 placebo pills .
a regimen of combined oral contraceptives in which 365 consecutive days of active contraceptive pills per year ;  there are no placebo pills in this regimen .
a mosaic karyotype in which some cells are 45 , x and some are 47 , xxx .
a genetic mosaic in which some cells are 45 , x and others are 47 , xxx .
an umbrella term used to refer to interpersonal relationships which exist in the intermediate space between casual sexual encounters  ( "hooking up" )  and formal relationship statuses .
any of various sex positions in which an orifice ,  typically the vagina or anus ,  is entered from behind .
a sex position in which one person lies on one side with knees bent while the other person lies with their front pressed against the other person's back ,  with possible penetration .
any of various sex positions in which one person is on top of another person during a penetrative sexual activity .
any of various emotionally and physically intimate acts between two or more people meant to create sexual arousal and desire for sexual activity .
any of various behaviors which precede sexual activity in animals .
a parenting style in which gender roles are not directly imposed upon a child .
the practice of relinquishing interests and claims over one's offspring in an illegal way with the intent of never resuming or reasserting guardianship .
deliberate and voluntary abandonment of a marital partner with the intention of ending the marriage agreement without justification and without intent of reunion .
spontaneous or induced abortion which involves an embryo or fetus present in the abdominal cavity .
surgical removal of part or all of the uterus via an abdominal approach .
birth which occurs via the vagina .
delivery of an infant through the vagina in a person who has had a prior caesarian section .
birth which occurs via the abdominal cavity ,  almost always via caesarean section .
a potentially life - threatening condition in which embryo implantation occurs outside the cavity of the uterus .
the branch of psychology that studies unusual patterns of behavior ,  emotion and thought ,  which may or may not be understood as precipitating a mental disorder .
the branch of medical science that deals with the classification of mental health conditions or psychiatric conditions .
a hierarchical classification of mental health conditions or psychiatric conditions .
any of various movements to end slavery in any of its various forms .
the act of putting an end to something by law .
the act of putting an end to slavery by law .
the act of putting an end to prisons or other forms of incarceration by law .
an abolitionist movement which seeks to reduce or eliminate prisons and the prison system ,  and replace them with systems of rehabilitation that do not place a focus on punishment and government institutionalization .
a movement which became prominent in the late 19th century ,  via the international abolitionist federation  ( iaf )  ,  which aimed to abolish state regulation of sex work and fought the international trafficking of women in prostitution and sexual slavery .
use of an abortifacient to prevent embryonic implantation in the event that fertilization has occurred .
the right to a safe and legal abortion for pregnant persons .
the aborted fetus following an induced abortion .
the aborted fetus following a completed abortion .
the aborted fetus following an impending abortion .
the aborted fetus following an in - progress abortion or an otherwise inevitable abortion .
the aborted fetus following an incomplete abortion ,  in which some fetal tissue remains in the uterus .
the aborted fetus following an incomplete abortion which has become infected .
the aborted fetus following a spontaneous abortion .
someone who advocates for reproductive rights .
someone who advocates for abortion rights .
any of various non - governmental social movement engaged in activism related to the issues of human rights .
a human rights movement which advocate for legal access to induced abortion services .
any of various human rights movements which advocate for reproductive rights .
a person who carries out induced abortions .
a body structure which has undergone some mechanical process of alteration which is nonnormative or otherwise considered abnormal .
the separation of parts of the body that are normally joined together .
the pathological sudden breaking away of a portion from a mass .
premature separation of the normally implanted placenta from the uterus .
a word ,  phrase ,  or expression which has a technical definition .
a word ,  phrase ,  or expression which is used in medicine ,  medical care ,  or is otherwise part of medical terminology .
a term which was considered to be medical at some point ,  but is no longer used in medicine at all .
philosophical theories falling under the scope of the field of ethics .
an ethical theory or viewpoint that all actions are intrinsically right or wrong .
any of various laws which prohibit or limit the mention or discussion of homosexuality and transgender identity in public schools .
short stature that is observed between the ages of 2 and 15 ,  caused by extreme emotional deprivation or stress .
a form of dwarfism caused by complete or partial growth hormone deficiency ,  resulting from either the lack of growth hormone - releasing factor from the hypothalamus or from the mutations in the growth hormone gene  ( gh1 )  in the pituitary gland .
domestic violence by a current or former partner in an intimate bisexual relationship  ( i .e .
the process of collecting and restating the law of a jurisdiction in certain areas ,  usually by subject ,  forming a legal code ,  i .e .
a principle which fundamentally underlies jurisprudence and the legal process .
a principle which allows for the exercise of a legal right only to cause annoyance ,  harm ,  or injury to another in civil law jurisdictions .
victims of abuse who are lgbtqia +  .
a  victim of abuse is bisexual .
a  victim of abuse is transgender .
a person who has suffered from any of various forms of child abuse .
people who take substances such as drugs for an effect considered non - therapeutic or non - medical by any of various legal and / or medical entities .
a person who uses any of various recreational substances .
a person who abuses another person or people .
a man who abuses another person or people .
a woman who abuses another person or people .
a relationship in which at least of the partners is bisexual .
a bisexual relationship which includes aspects of abuse ,  sexual or otherwise .
a lesbian relationship which includes aspects of abuse ,  sexual or otherwise .
a gay male relationship which includes aspects of abuse ,  sexual or otherwise .
an abusive spouse or other abusive person with whom one shares a domestic ,  romantic or sexual bond .
an abusive partner in marriage .
an abusive partner who is a lesbian .
a partner who is a lesbian .
a parent who is abusive .
toleration and acceptance of differences and diversity in others ;  the degree to which an individual or individuals are incorporated into activities or welcomed into social interaction ( s )  .
toleration and acceptance of differences and diversity in a child by one's parent or parents .
behavior that expresses the sexual receptivity and allows copulation .
solicitation of a potential mate's attention by a sexually receptive organism .
a phase experienced as part of an organism's sexuoerotic relationship .
a phase experienced as part of a human's sexuoerotic relationship .
the initial period in a relationship when organisms are "courting" each other ,  prior to the acceptive phase when copulation occurs .
the phase of human sexuoerotic relationship in which a partner expresses sexual receptivity and allows for copulation .
the phase of a sexuoerotic relationship which follows the acceptive phase ;  the conceptive phase begins with the possibility of conception and gestation .
either a pattern of results from various psychological tests obtained for an individual ,  or a hypothetical description of a person's psychological characteristics ,  such as a criminal profile .
a profile proposed by william prendergast in 1979 to describe possible psychological outcomes for children with "inadequate" personalities .
a personality profile originating from the mostly obsoleted 1979 william prendergast developmental - descriptive profile .
the quality of being accessible ,  or of admitting approach ;  receptiveness .
the degree to which individuals are inhibited or facilitated in their ability to gain entry to and to receive care and services from the health care system .
the ability for an individual to seek ,  receive and impart information effectively .
any of various legal rights which allow individuals to access ,  use ,  create ,  and publish digital media or to access and use computers ,  other electronic devices ,  and telecommunications networks .
any of various rights which relate to the communication ,  collection ,  access ,  use ,  and control of information .
the right to identify ,  obtain and make use of data or information effectively .
the right which stipulates all people must be able to access the internet in order to exercise and enjoy their rights to freedom of expression and opinion and other fundamental human rights ,  that states have a responsibility to ensure that internet access is broadly available ,  and that states may not unreasonably restrict an individual's access to the internet .
the ability of an individual or group to receive ,  mobilize for ,  and be informed about procedures related to accountability ,  fairness ,  equality ,  equity ,  civil liberties ,  and human rights .
a chromosome which is present in addition to the normal chromosome complement .
a chromosome that is additional to the statistically normative karyotype for a given species .
a supernumerary chromosome which is preferentially inherited ,  instead of being subject to mendelian inheritance models .
a partially or completed duplicated urethra resulting from any of various congenital genitourinary conditions .
an early - modern african state located in what is now angola .
a process which is part of jean piaget's theory of psychological adaptation  ( psychological adjustment )  .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by transmasculine people  ( including transgender men )  ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by transfeminine people  ( including transgender women )  ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the concept covering the physical and mental health conditions experienced by nonbinary people ,  usually related to social disadvantages or discriminatory acts .
the usage of twitter hashtags  ( or any other social media system's hashtags )  for the purposes of internet activism .
a person who is marginalized because of some aspect of their gender characteristics .
phalloplasty in which a penile shaft is constructed without vaginectomy ,  urethral lengthening ,  and scrotoplasty being performed .
any of various phalloplasty techniques in which vaginectomy is not performed ,  leaving a functional vaginal oriface .
any of various methods of phalloplasty in which the clitoris  ( and usually the clitoral hood )  are left exposed ,  instead of buried .
the status of a patient or subject with regard to a particular disease .
a status which indicates that a patient or subject has hiv .
a status which indicates that a patient or subject does not have hiv .
a process of communication by which one person reveals information about their sexually transmitted infection disease statuses and / or history .
a process of communication by which one person reveals information about their hiv statuses and / or history .
a status which indicates that a patient's or subject's hiv status is not known or that the patient or subject is otherwise unsure about their hiv status .
synthesia are experienced by transgender people ;  synthesia as it occurs in transgender persons .
the killing of another person on the basis of their gender ,  but typically in a non - systematic fashion .
the intentional killing of a woman because of her gender ,  usually used in the context of describing a hate crime .
the intentional killing of a man because of his gender .
the intentional killing of a transgender woman because of her gender ,  usually used in the context of describing a hate crime .
the intentional killing of a travesti  ( a person belonging to a specific cultural gender identity / role in some south american countries )  because of their gender ,  usually used in the context of describing a hate crime .
the intentional killing of a transgender man because of his gender ,  usually used in the context of describing a hate crime .
pornography which is chiefly displayed through the medium of television .
a subculture interested in any of various sports or sporting events ,  teams ,  players ,  coaches ,  or other individuals involved in the sport or sports .
a subculture interested in any of various women's sports or sporting events ,  teams ,  players ,  coaches ,  or other individuals involved in the sport or sports .
any of various religions originating primarily in western asia .
any of various religions which originated in greater iran .
a multi - faceted faith centered on a dualistic cosmology of good and evil and an eschatology predicting the ultimate conquest of evil with theological elements of henotheism ,  monotheism / monism ,  and polytheism .
a new religion  ( in the sociological sense )  teaching the essential worth of all religions and the unity of all people .
any of various religions practiced in ancient egypt .
any of various related religions that developed as a result of the african diaspora ,  primarily in the americas .
any of various related religious traditions in the americas derived from the african diaspora ,  especially those in the southern united states .
any of various related religious traditions in the caribbean derived from the african diaspora .
any of various traditional beliefs and practices of african people are a set of highly diverse beliefs that includes various ethnic religions .
any of various religions originating among indigenous peoples in the americas .
any of various religions originating among indigenous peoples in north america .
any of various religions originating among indigenous peoples in south america .
a polyphyletic term used to describe the diversity of practices in areas generally termed "religion" ,  of persons of chinese heritage ,  including the chinese diaspora .
the direction of something observed from a vehicle ,  typically a vessel or an aircraft ,  or from an individual's viewpoint relative to the orientation of the observer or vehicle .
any of various cultures or subcultures primarily defined by recreational drug or substance usage .
a subculture which is primarily built around cannabis consumption ,  particularly as an entheogen ,  recreational drug and medicine .
the culture and set of traditions and social behaviors that surround the consumption of beverages containing ethanol as a recreational drug and social lubricant .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  drug subcultures or is otherwise used to refer to drugs .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  cannabis subcultures or is otherwise used to refer to cannabis .
the use of combined psychoactive substances to achieve a particular effect .
the state of a subject's or patient's antibodies .
the state of a subject's or patient's hiv antibodies .
a state in which an individual tests positive for hiv antibodies .
a state in which an individual tests negative for hiv antibodies .
slang utilized primarily within the subculture of barebacking .
pop music which focuses more specifically on gender identity and gender issues ,  especially as they relate to transgender people .
any of various kinds of intimacy which help to affirm one's gender identity .
research in which more than one method of data collection is used .
research in which qualitative and quantitative data ,  methods ,  methodologies ,  and / or paradigms are mixed together .
slang that is specify to ,  or primarily used within ,  the bear community ,  that is the subculture of gay men who consider themselves to be bears .
slang that is specify to ,  or primarily used within ,  the chubby subculture of gay men .
slang that is specific to ,  or primarily used within ,  the latinx transgender community .
any of various diseases due to an acute infection .
a heterosexual man who has hiv .
a heterosexual woman who has hiv .
a bisexual woman who has hiv .
a nonbinary person who has hiv .
a lesbian who has hiv .
an adolescent who has hiv .
an infant who has hiv .
literatures organized by continent .
literature of the americas .
literature of north america .
literature of south america .
literature of the united states of america .
roman civilization from the founding of the italian city of rome in the 8th century bc to the collapse of the western roman empire in the 5th century ad ,  encompassing the roman kingdom  ( 753 bc–509 bc )  ,  roman republic  ( 509 bc–27 bc )  and roman empire  ( 27 bc–476 ad )  until the fall of the western empire .
egypt as it existed during the hellenistic period  ( 322 bce to 30 bce )  ,  from its conquest by alexander the great to its conquest by caesar augustus .
an ancient hellenistic state based in egypt .
any of a group of indigenous religions of mesoamerica that were prevalent in the pre - columbian era .
a religion which originated among the aztecs in central mexico .
the assembly of most or all of earth's continental blocks or cratons to form a single large landmass .
a division of an ocean ,  partially enclosed by islands ,  archipelagos ,  or peninsulas ,  adjacent to or widely open to the open ocean at the surface ,  and / or bounded by submarine ridges on the sea floor .
a mostly enclosed sea that has limited exchange of water with outer oceans and with water circulation dominated by salinity and temperature differences rather than winds or tides .
a mediterranean sea with higher salinity than the outer ocean due to evaporation ,  and water exchange consisting of inflow of the fresher oceanic water in the upper layer and outflow of the saltier mediterranean water in the lower layer of the connecting channel .
a mediterranean sea with lower salinity due to freshwater gains such as rainfall and rivers ,  and water exchange consisting of outflow of the fresher mediterranean water in the upper layer and inflow of the saltier oceanic water in the lower layer of the channel .
a name for the combined watershed of the mississippi river basin and the waterbody of the caribbean sea and the gulf of mexico .
a mediterranean sea located in the area between southeast asia and australasia .
the westernmost subregion of asia .
patriarchy described by the "mutually reinforcing dialectical relationship between capitalist class structure and hierarchical sexual structuring ."
a high - volume perpetuation of celebrities' personal lives on a global scale .
a type of ectopic pregnancy in which the mammalian embryo implants in the abdominal pregnancy instead of in the endometrium of the uterus .
a plea or defense in a court of law that a person ,  whether a member of the military ,  law enforcement ,  a firefighting force ,  or the civilian population ,  should not be considered guilty of committing actions that were ordered by a superior officer or official .
a word ,  phrase ,  or expression which is used in law ,  legal proceedings ,  jurisprudence ,  or is otherwise part of legal terminology .
a term which was considered to be medical at some point ,  but is no longer used in legal practice at all .
a health professional who has "who has successfully completed a midwifery education program that is recognised in the country where it is located and that is based on the icm essential competencies for basic midwifery practice and the framework of the icm global standards for midwifery education ;  who has acquired the requisite qualifications to be registered or legally licensed to practice midwifery and use the title midwife ;  and who demonstrates competency in the practice of midwifery ."
a pregnancy and childbirth care provider who provides basic health care ,  support and advice during and after pregnancy and childbirth ,  based primarily on experience and knowledge acquired informally through the traditions and practices of the communities where they originated .
a health provider who provides basic and emergency care to women and their newborns during pregnancy ,  childbirth and the postpartum period .
a person who is both a nurse  ( usually a registered nurse )  and a midwife ,  having completed nursing and midwifery education leading to practice as a nurse midwife and sometimes credentialed in the specialty .
a certified midwife who is not a nurse ;  certified professional midwives are known for being "more natural and less intervention oriented ."
a midwife who has become credentialed without first becoming a nurse .
an individual educated in the discipline of midwifery ,  who possesses evidence of certification as a midwife .
a village - level obstetric health worker in india who is known as the first contact person between the community and the health services .
in the united states ,  a nurse midwife who exceeds the international confederation of midwives essential competencies for a midwife and is also an advanced practice registered nurse ,  having completed registered nursing and midwifery education leading to practice as a nurse midwife and credentialing as a certified nurse - midwife .
a direct - entry midwife who is licensed to practice ,  but only within a certain jurisdiction and typically exclusively serving the homebirth population in that jurisdiction .
a midwife who is a member of a hospital  ( or other medical center )  staff .
someone who is training to become a midwife ;  a midwife in training .
any of various advanced practice providers who practice midwifery .
the practice of forcing a woman to become pregnant ,  often as part of a forced marriage ,  or as part of a program of breeding slaves ,  or as part of a program of genocide .
the use of force or intimidation to obtain compliance .
any of a collection of behaviors that interfere with decision - making related to reproductive health .
an induced abortion which occurs when a perpetrator or perpetrators cause abortion by force ,  threat or coercion ,  or by taking advantage of a person's incapability to give consent ,  or where they provide them consent under duress .
the practice of terminating a pregnancy based upon the predicted sex of the infant .
abortion in which a characteristic or characteristics of the fetus or the pregnancy is not preferred for any reason  ( including if the abortion is therapeutic to the pregnant person )  .
a form of reproductive coercion which involves tampering with contraception or interfering with the use of contraception .
an attempt to influence a partner to continue or terminate a pregnancy .
neglect ,  physical abuse ,  and lack of respect during childbirth .
a branch of the health sciences which deals with pregnancy ,  childbirth ,  and the postpartum period  ( including care of the newborn )  ,  in addition to the sexual and reproductive health of women throughout their lives .
literature of asia .
literatures organized by location .
literature in east asia .
literature of china
christianity from the fall of the western roman empire  ( c . 476 ce )  until the fall of constantinople  ( 1453 ce )  ,  which is usually taken to mark the end of the middle ages in the history of europe .
a person who is associated with pronouns directly or indirectly .
a person who uses the pronouns she and her in english as their third - person pronouns .
a person who uses the pronouns he and him in english as their third - person pronouns .
a person who uses the pronouns they and them in english as their third - person pronouns .
life which is hypothesized to exist .
life which occurs outside of earth and which did not originate on earth .
originally defined as any life created by human beings and not through natural processes .
an organism or organisms created synthetically ;  especially those created through methods derived from synthetic biology .
a self - replicating computer program that mutates and evolves .
the branch of philosophy that studies concepts such as existence ,  being ,  becoming ,  and reality .
the material or immaterial existence of a thing .
absence ,  lack of ,  or the state of not being ;  nonexistence .
a being believed to be supernatural ,  that is beyond understanding ,  having some characteristic or characteristics considered beyond scientific inquiry ,  or transcending some aspect or aspects of nature .
a being that is present in a specific mythology or mythos .
a being who is considered to be divine ,  i .e .
a being whose existence is believed to be real ,  but has yet been verified ;  alternatively ,  a being who exists exclusively in legends .
a divine being who is revered specifically as having supernatural powers and understanding ,  especially when compared to human beings .
a movement including spiritual beliefs or practices  ( chiefly neopagan )  which emerged predominantly in north america ,  western europe ,  australia ,  and new zealand in the 1970s .
any of various movements related to neopaganism  ( also known as modern paganism )  .
any of various religions originating in europe .
any of various religions originating among the germanic peoples of northern europe .
the religion practiced by the germanic peoples from the iron age until christianization during the middle ages .
any of various religions originating among the celtic peoples .
the religious beliefs and practices adhered to by the iron age people of western europe now known as the celts ,  roughly between 500 bce and 500 ce ,  spanning the la tène period and the roman era ,  and in the case of the insular celts the british and irish iron age .
a branch of germanic religion which developed during the proto - norse period ,  when the north germanic peoples separated into a distinct branch of the germanic peoples .
the religious beliefs and practices followed by the anglo - saxons between the 5th and 8th centuries ce ,  during the initial period of early medieval england .
a religion which arose primarily from the 18th century romanticist movement in britain ,  which glorified the ancient celtic peoples of the iron age .
a modern pagan religion developed in europe during the early 20th century .
any of various religions originating among the baltic peoples .
the religion practiced by the baltic peoples until the period of christianization ,  in the 15th and 16th centuries .
any of various religions originating among the slavic peoples .
the religious beliefs ,  myths and ritual practices of the slavs before christianization ,  which occurred at various stages between the 8th and the 13th century .
the late form of ancient greek religion covers any of the various systems of beliefs and practices of the people who lived under the influence of ancient greek culture during the hellenistic period and the roman empire  ( c . 300 bce to 300 ce )  .
any of various religious movements which revive or reconstruct ancient greek religious practices ,  and which have publicly emerged since the 1990s .
forms of mysticism  ( and descendant practices )  derived from neoplatonist philosophy ,  deriving mainly from the enneads of plotinus .
a religion established in the united states during the late nineteenth century .
an esoteric and occult social or spiritual philosophy and new religious movement developed in the early 1900s by aleister crowley ,  an english writer ,  mystic ,  and ceremonial magician .
a religious and esoteric tradition based primarily upon writings attributed to hermes trismegistus  ( "thrice - greatest hermes" )  .
a philosophy and religious tradition founded in the early 20th century by the esotericist rudolf steiner that postulates the existence of an objective ,  intellectually comprehensible spiritual world ,  accessible to human experience .
a modern pagan religion which developed in england during the first half of the 20th century and was introduced to the public in 1954 by gerald gardner ,  a retired british civil servant .
an amalgamation of spiritual practices ,  traditions ,  and beliefs created by enslaved africans in north america that were held in secret from slaveholders .
a set of spiritual beliefs and practices developed from the traditions of the african diaspora in louisiana .
a religion practiced by the fon people of benin ,  and southern and central togo ;  as well in ghana ,  and nigeria .
an african diasporic religion that developed in haiti between the 16th and 19th centuries .
a collective term for new religious movements influenced by or derived from the various historical pagan beliefs of pre - modern peoples .
any of various neopagan traditions and / or sects which were founded by lgbtqia +  persons ,  primarily include lgbtqia +  persons among their membership ,  or are defined in some capacity by lgbtqia +  acceptance .
an initiatory tradition of modern pagan witchcraft .
a term encompassing the polytheistic religions of the semitic peoples from the ancient near east and northeast africa .
the religion of the bronze age minoan civilization of crete .
a form of paganism which purports to derive from ancient minoan religion ;  because little is known of that religion ,  however ,  it is not considered reconstructionist ,  and therefore also oftentimes incorporates a ritual framework descended from gardnerian wicca .
a minoan tradition founded in 1975 by edmund buczynski ,  an elder in the gardnerian ,  wica ,  and new york welsh traditions ,  in order to create a tradition for gay and bisexual men—one that would celebrate and explore the distinctive mysteries unique to men who love men .
a minoan tradition founded in 1976 by lady rhea and lady miw - sekhmet ,  in collaboration with edmund buczynski ,  as the women's counterpart to the minoan brotherhood .
a queer neopagan tradition founded in the summer of 2004 by seven gay men from diverse traditions such as ceremonial magic ,  shamanism ,  and pre - gardnerian witchcraft in order to create an ecumenical neopagan tradition which serves the community of men who love men .
any of various spiritual beliefs or practices  ( chiefly neopagan )  which emerged predominantly in north america ,  western europe ,  australia ,  and new zealand in the 1970s ,  which arose from perceptions of predominant organized religion as male - dominated .
any of a range of spiritual or religious beliefs and practices which rapidly grew in the western world during the 1970s .
any religion in which the existence of extraterrestrial  ( et )  entities operating unidentified flying objects  ( ufos )  is an element of belief .
a set of beliefs and practices invented by american author l . ron hubbard ,  and an associated movement .
the traditional religious and spiritual concepts and practice of the yoruba tribe .
an ethnic group that inhabits western africa ,  mainly the countries of nigeria ,  benin ,  ghana ,  togo ,  ivory coast ,  sierra leone ,  liberia ,  senegal ,  the gambia and brazil  ( as a cultural language in rdj  ( state )  and salvador ,  bahia .
an african diasporic religion that developed in cuba between the 16th and 19th centuries .
a religious philosophy held by some persons  ( religious fundamentalists )  or groups which is characterized by a markedly strict literalism as it is applied to certain specific scriptures ,  dogmas ,  or ideologies ,  and a strong sense of the importance of maintaining ingroup and outgroup distinctions ,  leading to an emphasis on purity and the desire to return to a previous ideal from which advocates believe members have strayed .
a form of religious fundamentalism which began in the late 19th and early 20th centuries among british and american protestants as a reaction to theological liberalism and cultural modernism .
a member church of the worldwide anglican communion and is based in the united states with additional dioceses elsewhere .
any of various mainline protestant movements or religions which aims to bring about closer relationships among their churches and promote christian unity .
a mainline protestant christian denomination based in the united states ,  with historical confessional roots in the congregational ,  reformed ,  and lutheran traditions ,  and with approximately 4 , 852 churches and 802 , 356 members .
any of various protestant churches in the reformed tradition practising congregationalist church governance ,  in which each congregation independently and autonomously runs its own affairs .
a branch of protestant theology that denies the universal duty of human beings to believe in christ for the salvation of their souls .
an american extremist cult and hate group known for engaging in pickets with inflammatory homophobic ,  transphobic ,  anti - american ,  anti - atheist ,  anti - christian ,  antisemitic ,  anti - mormon ,  and islamophobic hate speech .
any of various new religious movements associated with christianity .
a worldwide new religious movement whose members are sometimes colloquially called "moonies" .
any of various religions deriving from those of protestantism ,  but having more independent and autonomous styles of church governance ;  such churches tend to be isolated from other protestant denominations and are often considered cults by other protestants .
a worldwide church whose members are sometimes colloquially called "moonies" .
a religious cult which began in the 1950s and 1960s when missionaries from japan and south korea were sent to the united states by the international unification movement's founder and leader sun myung moon .
an infectious disease by fungi of the genus saccharomyces .
a person who is guilty of a sex crime .
an individual or individuals who have been convicted of rape  ( as well as those in which substantive evidence ,  contemporary or historical ,  makes it extremely likely that they were or are guilty of rape )  .
a person who has been charged with a crime or crimes .
a person who has been charged with a sex crime or crimes .
a person who has been convicted of a sex crime or crimes .
a person who has been convicted of a rape or rapes .
a rapist who uses rape as a way to compensate for their underlying feelings of inadequacy and feeds their issues of mastery ,  control ,  strength ,  authority and capability .
a rapist who uses rape to humiliate ,  debase ,  and hurt their victim ;  they express their contempt for their victim through physical violence and profane language .
a rapist who is a sadist and who for whom sexual excitement is associated with the causing of suffering upon their victim .
any of various behaviors motivated by religious beliefs .
an act of religious devotion ,  usually directed towards a deity .
a collection of religious ideas and systems which originated in the first century ad among early christian and jewish sects .
a belief system that venerates the essential characteristics that are affixed to lucifer .
an umbrella term for religious beliefs that consider satan to be an objectively existing deity ,  supernatural being ,  or force which is worthy of worship and supplication ,  whom individuals may contact ,  convene with and even praise ,  rather than just an archetype ,  a metaphor ,  a symbol ,  or an idea as in laveyan satanism .
an alcoholic drink produced by distillation of grains ,  fruits ,  or vegetables that have already gone through alcoholic fermentation .
a drink historically described as a distilled ,  highly alcoholic beverage  ( 45–74% abv  /  90–148 u .s . proof )  .
a slogan related to hiv / aids .
a non - scientific field of study which becomes a field of science .
an ancient branch of natural philosophy ,  a philosophical and protoscientific tradition practiced throughout europe ,  africa ,  china and throughout asia ,  observable in chinese text from around 73–49 bce and greco - roman egypt in the first few centuries ce .
a pseudoscience that claims to divine information about human affairs and terrestrial events by studying the movements and relative positions of celestial objects .
any pseudoscientific theory ,  idea ,  or belief which purports various claims about astronomical bodies and the universe .
a pseudoscientific practice using the language of physics or discussing issues related to or pertinent to physics to promote ideas which are either incoherent or contradictory to known physics  ( experimental phenomenology )  .
any pseudoscientific theory ,  idea ,  or belief which purports various claims about chemical entities and / or processes .
a variation of a single nucleotide at a specific location of the genome due to base substitution ,  which is found at any frequency in the population .
variation in chromosome structure including microscopic and submicroscopic types of variation such as deletions ,  duplications ,  copy - number variants ,  insertions ,  inversions and translocations .
a variation in chromosome structure or number .
a mutation in an organism's dna .
a variation in or modification of the molecular sequence of a gene or gene product .
an allele is one of a set of sequence variants of a gene .
increase or decrease of the number of copies of a chromosomal region .
a genetic polymorphism that is part of a dna molecule .
contiguous large - scale  ( 1000 - 400 , 000 basepairs )  differences in the genomic dna between individuals ,  due to sequence deletion ;  sequence insertion ;  or sequence inversion .
care in which any of a variety of non - medical services are offered by various institutions to improve quality of life ,  especially those in vulnerable situations .
a type of care system in which a minor has been placed into a ward ,  group home  ( residential child care community ,  treatment center ,  etc .
pronouns as organized by grammatical person .
a pronoun which is in the first person .
a pronoun which is in the second person .
a pronoun which is in the third person .
a first - person pronoun which is singular .
a first - person pronoun which is plural .
a second - person pronoun which is singular .
a second - person pronoun which is plural .
a third - person pronoun which is singular .
a third - person pronoun which is plural .
any of various conventions which exist in a written language system .
the set of structural rules governing the composition of clauses ,  phrases and words in a natural language .
a principle ,  norm ,  or rule concerning language which has been adopted by an individual ,  a group ,  or a linguistic community .
the manner in which the written and spoken language is routinely employed by its speakers ;  that is ,  it refers to "the collective habits of a language's native speakers" ,  as opposed to theoretical or idealized models of how a language works or  ( should work )  in the abstract .
the manner in which the written and spoken pronouns are routinely employed by a language's speakers .
the act of referring to oneself in the third person instead of first person .
the practice of using the pronoun we to refer to oneself when expressing a personal opinion .
the attempt to establish rules defining preferred or correct usage of language .
an intellectual and art movement supporting the emphasis of aesthetic values more than social - political themes for literature ,  fine art ,  music and other arts .
a group formed around a shared interest or common goal ,  to which individuals formally or informally belong .
a techniques of artificial insemination which requires the assistance of a medical practitioner and involves an individual called a donor .
immigrants who are members of any of various sexual minorities .
a gay person who is an immigrant .
a gay man who is an immigrant .
a lesbian who is an immigrant .
immigrants who are lgbtqia +  .
a transgender person who is an immigrant .
indigenous persons of north america who are lgbtqia +  .
a north american indigenous person who is gay .
a north american indigenous person who is a gay man .
a north american indigenous person who is a lesbian .
a north american indigenous person who is transgender .
lesbophobia against oneself supposedly caused by one's own repressed homosexuality .
an athlete who is gay .
an athlete who is a gay man .
a parent of an intersex person .
a gay person who is part of and / or is employed by the military .
transphobia within the military .
homophobia within the military .
lgbtqia +  persons organized by nationality .
lgbtq people who are american  ( i .e .
lgbtq people who are italian american .
americans of european ancestry who are lgbtqia +  .
a lesbian who is italian american .
a cuban american woman who is a lesbian .
a u .s .  ( united states )  american who is latinx .
people who are hispanic and / or latinx .
hispanic persons who are lgbtqia +  .
a hispanic person who is gay .
a hispanic woman who is a lesbian .
a lesbian who is hispanic american .
indigenous persons of oceania who are lgbtqia +  .
an oceanic indigenous person who is gay .
an oceanic indigenous person who is a lesbian .
an pacific islander  ( of oceanic indigenous descent )  american woman who is a lesbian .
an american who can trace their ancestry to cuba .
hispanic persons categorized by nationality .
a u .s .  ( united states )  american who is hispanic .
latinx americans who are lgbtqia +  .
an american who can trace their ancestry to mexico .
mexican americans who are lgbtqia +  .
a mexican american person who is a lesbian .
a mexican american person who is gay .
hispanic americans who are lgbtqia +  .
cuban americans who are lgbtqia +  .
an inhabitant of puerto rico and / or a citizen of the commonwealth of puerto rico  ( a united states territory )  ,  or a descendant of such a person .
a puerto rican person who is gay .
lgbtqia +  people who are hispanic and / or latinx .
lgbtqia +  americans who are hispanic and / or latinx .
a u .s .  ( united states )  american person whose ancestry originates wholly or partially from spain .
spanish american persons who are lgbtqia +  .
native hawaiians who are lgbtqia +  .
lgbtqia +  persons who are native americans  ( i .e .
a lesbian who is native american .
a gay person who is native american .
a member of the aboriginal polynesian people of the hawaiian islands or their descendants who trace their ancestry back to the original polynesian settlers of hawaiʻi .
an academic award related to lgbtqia +  studies and / or research .
a field of psychology surrounding the lives of lgbtqia +  individuals ,  in particular the diverse range of psychological perspectives and experiences of these individuals .
a perspective on psychology that draws extensively on critical theory .
any of various social norms based on environment .
the idea that metropolitan or urban areas and populations are prioritized over other areas ,  such as those that are rural or suburban .
a norm and structure in lgbtqia +  communities in which the metropolitan is prioritized as a mode of acceptance ,  i .e .
discrimination based on the environment in which a person or people live ,  exist ,  work ,  etc .
hostility toward the city as opposed to the country ,  a simple rejection of the city ,  or a wish to destroy the city ;  discrimination against persons seen as belonging to cities .
biases based on one's environment .
a bias in favor of rural population areas over more concentrated metropolitan population centers .
a bias in favor of concentrated urban population centers over more diffuse rural or suburban population areas .
a bias in favor of concentrated metropolitan population centers over more diffuse rural or suburban population areas .
" [ a ]  means to critically negotiate the relentless urbanisms that often characterize any united states based 'gay imaginary' . . . in which the city represents a beacon of tolerance and gay community ,  the country a locus of persecution and gay absence ."
a term sometimes used  ( mostly in the united states )  to refer to asian persons and pacific islanders .
oceanic indigenous people categorized by nationality .
asian and pacific islander people categorized by nationality .
an american person who is of pacific islander ancestry  ( or are descendants of the indigenous peoples of oceania or of austronesian descent )  .
pacific islander americans who are lgbtqia +  .
any of various modern pagan religions developed in northern europe .
a modern pagan religion developed in europe during the early 20th century .
a modern pagan religion developed in europe during the early 20th century .
a category of autochthonous religious movements which have revitalised within the baltic people  ( primarily lithuanians and latvians )  .
any type of modern paganism or contemporary pagan movement based on the ancient celtic religion .
human behavior deemed inappropriate .
difficulty in social interactions related to an impairment of characteristics such as eye contact ,  smiling ,  appropriate facial expressions ,  and body postures and characterized by difficulty in forming peer relationships and forming friendships .
puberty occurring at an unusually early age .
complete absence of social interaction .
human sexual behavior deemed inappropriate .
premature onset of adrenal androgen - mediated secondary sexual characteristics .
behavior that is not in line with social norms .
a data item is an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
a textual entity is a part of a manifestation  ( frbr sense )  ,  a generically dependent continuant whose concretizations are patterns of glyphs intended to be interpreted as words ,  formulas ,  etc .
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole .
a publication is a document that has been made available by a publisher .
a part of an extended organism that itself has as part a population of one or more infectious agents and that  ( 1 )  exists as a result of processes initiated by members of the infectious agent population and is  ( 2 )  clinically abnormal in virtue of the presence of this infectious agent population ,  or  ( 3 )  has a disposition to bring clinical abnormality to immunocompetent organisms of the same species as the host  ( the organism corresponding to the extended organism )  through transmission of a member or offspring of a member of the infectious agent population .
abnormal or otherwise harmful mental process caused by or associated with a mental condtion ,  disorder ,  or disease .
a psychological strategy used unconsciously by people to cope with harmful or stressful situations .
a state of feeling unwell or unhappy ;  a feeling of emotional and mental discomfort and suffering from restlessness ,  malaise ,  depression or anxiety .
a process involving at least two agents .
a family of enveloped ,  linear ,  double - stranded dna viruses infecting a wide variety of animals .
human alphaherpesvirus 1  ( hhv - 1 )  is a species of virus in the genus simplexvirus ,  subfamily alphaherpesvirinae ,  family herpesviridae ,  and order herpesvirales .
human alphaherpesvirus 2  ( hhv - 2 )  is a species of virus in the genus simplexvirus ,  subfamily alphaherpesvirinae ,  family herpesviridae ,  and order herpesvirales .
the genus chlamydophila was created by everett et al .
family of rna viruses that infects birds and mammals and encodes the enzyme reverse transcriptase .
a genus of the family retroviridae consisting of non - oncogenic retroviruses that produce multi - organ diseases characterized by long incubation periods and persistent infection .
a subgenus of lentivirus comprising viruses that produce immunodeficiencies in primates ,  including humans .
an hiv species related to hiv - 1 but carrying different antigenic components and with differing nucleic acid composition .
the type species of lentivirus and the etiologic agent of aids .
an obsolete clade of jawed vertebrates that supposedly includes the tetrapods ,  bony fish ,  and the wholly extinct acanthodian fish .
a successful clade that includes more than 90% of the living species of vertebrates .
a group of protostome animals ,  including arthropoda  ( insects ,  chelicerata ,  crustaceans ,  and myriapods )  ,  nematoda ,  and several smaller phyla .
a proposed sister clade of the klebsormidiaceae ,  with which they form the streptophyte / charophyte clade .
archelosauria is a clade proposed in 2014 for the grouping of turtles and archosaurs  ( birds and crocodilians )  and their fossil relatives .
a clade of lobe - finned fishes which include the tetrapods and lungfishes .
a species of bee within xylocopa ,  the genus of carpenter bees .
a clade  ( magnorder )  of placental mammals which is composed of the sister taxa laurasiatheria  ( most hoofed mammals ,  most pawed carnivores ,  and several other groups )  and euarchontoglires  ( supraprimates )  .
a group of flowering plants  ( angiosperms )  ,  informally called "mesangiosperms" .
one of two clades within the core eudicots  ( gunneridae )  ,  with the other being gunnerales .
a family of apicomplexan parasites ,  including the type genus plasmodium ,  which is responsible for malaria .
a superphylum of bacteria named after its three important members ,  planctomycetes ,  verrucomicrobia ,  and chlamydiae .
a clade ,  comprising all crustaceans and hexapods .
a clade of arthropods that comprises the extant subphyla myriapoda  ( millipedes and others )  ,  crustacea and hexapoda  ( insects and others )  .
a subfamily of hominidae .it includes two tribes ,  with their extant as well as extinct species:  ( 1 )  the hominini tribe  ( with the genus homo including modern humans and numerous extinct species ;  the subtribe australopithecina ,  comprising at least two extinct genera ;  and the subtribe panina ,  represented only by the genus pan ,  which includes common chimpanzees and bonobos )  and  ( 2 )  the gorillini tribe  ( gorillas )  .
the monkeys ,  including apes ,  cladistically including: the new world monkeys or platyrrhines ,  and the catarrhine clade consisting of the cercopithecidae and apes  ( including humans )  .
a branch of old world tailless simians native to africa and southeast asia .
the most familiar group of green plants that form vegetation on earth .
an informal group consisting of three divisions of non - vascular land plants  ( embryophytes ) : the liverworts ,  hornworts and mosses .
four - limbed  ( with a few exceptions ,  such as snakes )  animals constituting the superclass tetrapoda .
a clade of tetrapod vertebrates comprising the reptiles ,  birds ,  and mammals .
subclass of mammals amongst the theriiformes  ( the sister taxon to yinotheria )  .
the clade sauria was traditionally a suborder for lizards which originally  ( before 1800 )  comprised crocodilians too .
a clade of eukaryotic organisms made up of the green algae ,  which are primarily aquatic ,  and the land plants  ( embryophytes )  ,  which emerged within them .
a broad group of eukaryotes ,  including both the animal and fungus kingdoms .
animals with bilateral symmetry ,  i .e . ,  they have a head  ( anterior )  and a tail  ( posterior )  as well as a back  ( dorsal )  and a belly  ( ventral )  ;  therefore they also have a left side and a right side .
a clade of animals .together with the deuterostomes and xenacoelomorpha ,  its members make up the bilateria ,  mostly comprising animals with bilateral symmetry and three germ layers .
a classification group that includes most orders of the winged insects ,  specifically those that can flex their wings over their abdomens .
a superorder of insects within the infraclass neoptera that go through distinctive larval ,  pupal ,  and adult stages .
a subtaxon of the bilateria branch of the subkingdom eumetazoa ,  within animalia ,  and are distinguished from protostomes by their deuterostomic embryonic development ;  in deuterostomes ,  the first opening  ( the blastopore )  becomes the anus ,  while in protostomes ,  it becomes the mouth .
a group of three related eukaryotic phyla whose members possess an alveolar membrane system ,  consisting of flattened membrane - bound sacs lying beneath the outer cell membrane .
a class of vascular plants which produce flowers and seeds .
a major group within the hymenoptera ,  which includes two traditionally recognized lineages ,  the "sphecoid" wasps ,  and the bees .
a plant family of the order urticales ,  subclass hamamelidae ,  class magnoliopsida .
the plant genus in the cannabaceae plant family ,  urticales order ,  hamamelidae subclass .
an annual herbaceous flowering plant indigenous to eastern asia but now of cosmopolitan distribution due to widespread cultivation .
a double - stranded dna virus which has no rna stage .
a clade of plants .the composition of the clade varies considerably between authors ,  but the definition employed here includes land plants and all green algae except the chlorophyta and possibly the more basal mesostigmatophyceae ,  chlorokybophyceae ,  and spirotaenia .
a taxonomic order within the class magnoliopsida – flowering plants including the roses .
a suborder of primates containing the tarsiers and the simians  ( simiiformes or anthropoids )  ,  as sister of the strepsirrhini  ( "moist - nosed" )  .
a class of warm - blooded vertebrate animals having the skin more or less covered with hair ;  young are born alive except for the small subclass of monotremes and nourished with milk .
the aconoidasida are a class of apicomplexan parasites created by mehlhorn et al in 1980 .
general name for two extinct orders of reptiles from the mesozoic era: saurischia and ornithischia .
one of the two basic divisions of dinosaurs  ( the other being ornithischia )  .
a dinosaur suborder that is characterized by hollow bones and three - toed limbs .
the clade containing all theropod dinosaurs more closely related to birds than to carnosaurs .
a kingdom of eukaryotic ,  heterotrophic organisms that live parasitically as saprobes ,  including mushrooms ;  yeasts ;  smuts ,  molds ,  etc .
members of the phylum arthropoda composed or organisms characterized by division into three parts: head ,  thorax ,  and abdomen .
a phylum of unicellular parasitic eukaryotes characterized by the presence of complex apical organelles generally consisting of a conoid that aids in penetrating host cells ,  rhoptries that possibly secrete a proteolytic enzyme ,  and subpellicular microtubules that may be related to motility .
those land plants that have lignified tissues  ( the xylem )  for conducting water and minerals throughout the plant .
a taxon which comprises plants that produce seeds ,  hence the alternative name seed plants .
an order of heteroxenous protozoa in which the macrogamete and microgamont develop independently .
a genus of protozoa that comprise the malaria parasites of mammals .
a proposed basal animal clade as a sister group of the porifera .
the taxonomic phylum whose members are invertebrates with hard exoskeletons and segmented joints .
the subphylum hexapoda  ( from the greek for six legs )  constitutes the largest number of species of arthropods and includes the insects as well as three much smaller groups of wingless arthropods: collembola ,  protura ,  and diplura  ( all of these were once considered insects )  .
a clade of flowering plants mainly characterized by having two seed leaves upon germination .
members of a large clade  ( monophyletic group )  of flowering plants ,  containing about 70 , 000 species ,  more than a quarter of all angiosperms .
a large order of insects ,  comprising the sawflies ,  wasps ,  bees ,  and ants .
a suborder of insects in the order hymenoptera .
a subclade of hymenoptera .the name is a reference to the defining feature of the group ,  which is the modification of the ovipositor into a stinger  ( thus ,  the group could be called "stinging wasps" ,  though the group also contains the ants and the bees )  .
the largest family within the superfamily apoidea ,  containing at least 5 , 700 species of bees .
a eusocial flying insect within the genus apis of the bee clade ,  all native to eurasia but spread to four other continents by human beings .
the western honey bee or european honey bee  ( apis mellifera )  is the most common of the 7–12 species of honey bees worldwide .
carpenter bees are species in the genus xylocopa of the subfamily xylocopinae .
a subclass of insects that includes the winged insects .
an animal constituting the phylum chordata .
a subphylum of animals consisting of those having a bony or cartilaginous vertebral column .
the jawed vertebrates .gnathostome diversity comprises roughly 60 , 000 species ,  which accounts for 99% of all living vertebrates .
a class that contains the cartilaginous fishes: they are jawed vertebrates with paired fins ,  paired nares ,  scales ,  a heart with its chambers in series ,  and skeletons made of cartilage rather than bone .
a clade of plants within the tracheophytes  ( the vascular plants )  .
the ray - finned fishes .
a clade  ( traditionally a class or subclass )  of the bony fish ,  though a strict cladistic view includes the terrestrial vertebrates  ( tetrapods )  .
a taxonomic class of vertebrates that include frogs ,  toads ,  newts ,  salamanders ,  and gymnophiona .
a taxonomic clade that consists of reptiles ,  including birds ,  and the extinct parareptilia .
a group of diapsid amniotes whose living representatives consist of birds and crocodilians .
a taxonomic group  ( taxon )  that includes all insects except the jumping bristletails  ( archaeognatha )  .
a taxonomic class of egg - laying ,  endothermic vertebrates .
a proposed animal clade combining the extant phyla arthropoda ,  tardigrada and onychophora ,  not all studies support it ,  but most do ,  including neuroanatomical ,  mitogenomic and palaeontological studies .
a member of the craniata  ( sometimes called the craniota )  ,  a proposed clade of chordate animals with a skull of hard bone or cartilage .
a large group of eudicotyledons also called the "core eudicots" .
a taxonomic clade within the clade eurosids – introduced as a more user - friendly alternate for eurosids i .
one of two mammalian clades with extant members that diverged in the early cretaceous or perhaps the late jurassic .
a eutherian mammal constituting the taxonomic order primates .
the sister group to the new world monkeys ,  the platyrrhini .
a taxonomic family that was originally restricted to humans and their extinct relatives ,  but now also includes the gorilla ,  orangutan ,  chimpanzee and bonobo .
the only extant members of the subtribe hominina .
a person who comes to a country from another country in order to permanently settle there .
the age at which permanent cessation of menses occurs .
a surgical procedure for increasing breast size using a prosthetic implant .
a published record of a person's death that usually includes a brief biography and details of the funeral arrangements .
fetal death greater than or equal to 20 weeks of gestation prior to labor with apgar scores of 0 at 1 minute ,  5 minutes and beyond .
fetal death greater than or equal to 20 weeks of gestation during labor with apgar scores of 0 at 1 minute ,  5 minutes and beyond .
birth at 37 weeks and 0 days through 38 weeks and 6 days .
birth at 39 weeks and 0 days through 40 weeks and 6 days .
birth at 41 weeks and 0 days through 41 weeks and 6 days .
the preferred hand of use for controlled and efficient performance of motor tasks .
a storage location for historical digital data .
a set of syndromes related by recurrent febrile episodes accompanied by inflammatory cutaneous ,  mucosal ,  serosal ,  and osteoarticular manifestations .
deficiency of activity of the enzyme aromatase ,  which converts androgens to estrogens .
a condition that results in the complete inability of the cell to respond to androgens .
a condition that results in the partial inability of the cell to respond to androgens .
a deficiency in an enzyme that promotes reduction of an organic compound .
delivery of a dead fetus greater than 22 weeks but less than 28 weeks gestational age ,  and / or whose birth weight is greater than 500 grams but less than 1 , 000 grams .
delivery of a dead fetus greater than 28 weeks gestational age and / or greater than 1 , 000 grams birth weight .
the failure of an organ to develop during embryonic growth and development due to the absence of primordial tissue .
incomplete or underdevelopment of a tissue or organ .
a document that authorizes a person to operate a motor vehicle on public roads .
an east asian language spoken by about 128 million people ,  primarily in japan ,  where it is the national language .
the placement ,  arrangement of instance of entities within a space .
the assigned sex by any of various entities or institutions based  ( typically )  on the observable ,  physical sexual characteristics of the neonate at birth .
a change in something from one state to the opposite state .
the age at which a minor assumes legal control over their person ,  actions ,  and decisions .
the age at which death occurred .
organisms without a cell nucleus or any other membrane - bound organelles .
note that ,  in british english ,  a holiday usually refers to a period during which pupils do not attend their school ;  often plural ;  rarely used for students at university  ( usually: vacation )  .
in a formal agreement for marriage .
a type of treatment that uses substances derived from or made by living organisms to treat disease ;  this includes both naturally occurring and synthetic products .
a research study to evaluate interventions or exposures on biomedical or health - related outcomes .
surgery to remove the breast  ( or as much of the breast tissue as possible )  .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the female genital system .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the urogenital system .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the urinary system .
surgical reconstruction of the breast .
sexual interaction between individuals .
administration of a body substance to compensate for the loss ,  as from disease or surgery ,  of a gland or tissue that would normally produce the substance .
unsure of one's sexual orientation .
not experiencing sexual attraction ;  lacking interest in or desire for sex .
a place or collection containing records ,  documents ,  or other materials ,  especially those of historical interest .
the act of giving money or materials or other items of worth .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the genitourinary system .
a treatment plan that specifies the dosage ,  the schedule ,  and the duration of treatment .
the result of testing to determine if an individual is infected with the human immunodeficiency virus .
surgical procedures performed on parts of the breasts
a group of germanic languages that developed in the region of the north sea ,  rhine - weser ,  and elbe .
a family of languages that developed and spread within the indian subcontinent in the east to its westernmost reach in europe .
treatment of human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  infections with medications that target the virus directly ,  limiting the ability of infected cells to produce new hiv particles .
treatment of viral infections with agents that prevent viral replication in infected cells without impairing the host cell function .
surgical procedures organized by purpose and / or specific patient pool .
drug therapy which targets retrovirus function by multiple mechanisms .
a branch of the indo - european language family spoken natively mainly in europe ,  north america ,  oceania ,  and southern africa .
the process of change in the structure and function of an organism that occurs with the passage of time .
a person 6 to 12 years of age .
the exchange or transmission of ideas ,  attitudes ,  or beliefs between individuals or groups .
a set of people with some shared element .
a person who makes use of something .
a pattern of learned beliefs ,  values ,  and behavior that are shared within a group .
the study of the process by which animals and plants grow and develop .
the activities of educating or instructing or teaching ;  activities that impart knowledge or skill .
the branch of biology that studies the prenatal development of gametes  ( sex cells )  ,  fertilization ,  and development of embryos and fetuses .
activity that requires physical or mental exertion ,  especially when performed to develop or maintain fitness .
the ability of an individual to produce offspring .
the branch of biology that deals with heredity ,  especially the mechanisms of hereditary transmission and the variation of inherited characteristics among similar or related organisms .
the state of a subject's mental or physical condition .
the protection against infectious disease conferred by the immune response .
any physical object that is useful for prevention ,  diagnosis ,  monitoring ,  or treatment of disease or other conditions .
conceptual functions or thinking in all its forms .
a practiced and regimented skill or series of actions .
a subgroup having special characteristics within a larger group ,  often bound together by special ties which distinguish it from the larger group .
a person who receives medical attention ,  care ,  or treatment ,  or who is registered with medical professional or institution with the purpose to receive medical care when necessary .
the biological science concerned with the life - supporting properties ,  functions ,  and processes of living organisms or their parts .
a group of individuals united by a common factor  ( e .g . ,  geographic location ,  ethnicity ,  disease ,  age ,  gender ) 
the subjective measurement of an individual's sense of well - being and ability to enjoy life .
a predetermined set of questions .
a psychological mechanism utilized by humans to shield themselves from painful memories or traumatic events .
the status of a patient or subject with regard to their health or a medical procedure .
a group of people who provide each other moral support ,  information ,  and advice on problems relating to a shared characteristic or experience .
a document used in a method of data collection that involves interviewing  ( or giving questionnaires to )  a representative and often large group of people .
identification as male / masculine ,  female / feminine or something else ,  and association with a  ( social )  role or set of behavioral and cultural traits ,  clothing ,  etc ;  a category to which a person belongs on this basis .
a prearranged meeting for consultation or exchange of information or discussion ,  especially one with a formal agenda .
the exchange of information between people .
an artificial device that replaces a missing body part ,  which may be lost through trauma ,  disease ,  or a condition present at birth ,  or otherwise improves upon the function or aesthetic appearance of such a body part .
a person having attained full growth or maturity .
a surgical instrument or medical implement used to induce dilation ,  that is ,  to expand an opening or passage such as the cervix  ( see cervical dilator )  ,  urethra ,  esophagus ,  or vaginal introitus .
to teach with hands - on experience .
any form of exercise or movement .
the characteristics in behavior that a certain person has .
a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating diseases and disorders of the female reproductive organs .
a doctor who specializes in diagnosing and treating diseases and disorders of the nervous system .
the process by which semen is kept viable outside of the organism from which it was derived  ( i .e . ,  kept from decay by means of a chemical agent ,  cooling ,  or a fluid substitute that mimics the natural state within the organism )  .
physicians who specialize in treating endocrine system diseases .
a doctor who specializes in diseases of the urinary organs .
a surgeon specializing in plastic surgery ;  that is ,  the restoration ,  reconstruction ,  or alteration of the human body .
a physician who treats disease ,  injury ,  and deformity by operation or manipulation that involves gaining access to the patient's body by incisional access .
a collection of humans or animals who share certain characteristics ,  interact with one another ,  accept expectations and obligations as members of the group ,  and share a common identity .
the set of specific processes that generate the ability of an organism to induce an abnormal ,  generally detrimental state in another organism .
methods for preserving egg cells such as oocyte cryopreservation in liquid nitrogen .
methods for short term or long term preservation of embryos at the two cell stage or beyond .
a person who supports others to make their voices heard ,  or ideally for them to speak up for themselves .
procedures utilized to save substances from decay .
the distinguishing qualities or prominent aspects of an individual person .
age of first menstruation .
a biologic function ,  activity ,  or process involving either specialized organ functions ,  individual organs ,  organ systems ,  body parts ,  or whole organisms .
processes that involve and promote the transfer or transmission of stimulatory  ( sensory )  information from the periphery to more central organized structures and mechanisms involved in processing information .
a function or process affecting multiple organisms or organism groups .
pertaining to the demographic and psychosocial environment in which a person lives .
a worldwide ,  decentralized network of computer networks connecting individuals and organizations to information and electronic mail services .
genes that code for transcription factors .
an information system where documents and other web resources are identified by uniform resource locators  ( urls ,  such as https: /  / www .example .com /  )  ,  which may be interlinked by hypertext ,  and are accessible over the internet .
subgroups of populations based on age .
any of various genes which encode ligand - dependent nuclear receptor  ( nr )  transcription factors .
removal ,  separation ,  detachment ,  extirpation ,  or eradication of a body part ,  pathway ,  or function by surgery ,  chemical destruction ,  morbid process ,  or noxious substance .
any physical or mental impairment that interferes with an individual's ability to perform desired activities .
any physiological aspect of aging ;  irreversible changes in an organism that occur over time and lead to a more mature condition .
a person related by blood or marriage .
a predominantly female hormone derived from cholesterol belonging to the family of steroid hormones and is responsible for maintaining the health of reproductive tissues ,  breast ,  skin ,  and brain .
estrogens that are not steroids ,  but have a structural configuration resembling steroids and may mimic steroidal estrogen effect or bind to estrogen receptors .
drugs used in combination with other pain drugs to assist or enhance their action .
compounds that alleviate pain without loss of consciousness .
a way of getting from one place to another ;  an established line of travel or access ;  the way a chemical or pollutant enters an organism after contact ,  particularly ,  the way of drug administration .
the state of being engaged in an activity or service for wages or salary ;  the occupation for which you are paid .
a demographic parameter indicating a person's current conjugal status .
to assign to a cause or source .
the outward or visible aspect of a person or thing .
examination and interpretation ;  the process of identifying an issue to be understood and addressed ,  modelling the issue ,  investigating the model results ,  interpreting the results ,  and possibly making a recommendation .
a thing done .
an allotting or an appointment to a particular person or use ,  or for a particular time or object .
the act of alteration or modification ;  changed or altered in form or character .
the distinguishing qualities or prominent aspect of a person ,  object ,  action ,  process ,  or substance .
a state of being ,  such as a state of health .
permission to do something .
a collective generic term that refers here to a wide variety of dependencies ,  areas of special sovereignty ,  uninhabited islands ,  and other entities in addition to the traditional countries or independent states .
the act of entering into or through something .
a measurement of degree ,  speed ,  or frequency relative to time .
the process or technique of obtaining a representative sample .
a condition or state at a particular time .
a lack of occurrence or performance .
a healing process and / or an outcome implying relative health .
any act or phenomena ,  or behavior ,  constituting a reply or reaction of a living organism or its part to some foregoing stimulus or agent .
a state of ill health caused by medical treatment ,  usually due to mistakes made in treatment .
the dried leaves and flowering tops of the cannabis sativa plant ,  or an extract from the plant .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the gonads .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the larynx .
bleeding originating from the vagina .
any of various syndromes primarily affecting the endocrinological system of the body .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the anatomic structures of the head and neck region .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the anatomic structures of the neck region .
a person 13 to 18 years of age .
administration of a drug into a location within the body ;  this can be achieved either through an established access or via a needle .
a surgeon who performs organ transplants .
a prosthesis used to change the size ,  shape ,  and contour of a person's breast .
the act or process of modifying something .
the theoretical totality of characteristics of reproductive structure ,  functions ,  phenotype ,  and genotype ,  differentiating the male from the female organism .
a neoplasm of the breast .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the heart or the vessels  ( arteries ,  veins and lymph vessels )  .
someone who takes part in an activity .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the endocrine system .
a genetic problem caused by one or more abnormalities formed in the genome .
an infection caused by a fungus .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the urinary system .
an infection caused by a virus .
a pathologic process in the larynx that affects the production of speech .
an infection that is caused by chlamydia trachomatis .
a disorder that results from a chromosomal abnormality .
a finding in which there is a subnormal amount of an enzyme .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder affecting the arteries ,  veins ,  or lymphatic vessels .
a congenital or acquired hyperplasia of the cells of the adrenal cortex or medulla .
a specific behavioral problem that occurs in persistent patterns and characteristic clusters and that causes clinically significant impairment .
the psychic drive or energy associated with sexual instinct in the broad sense  ( pleasure and love - object seeking )  .
the various ways of administering a drug or other chemical to a site in a patient or animal from where the chemical is absorbed into the blood and delivered to the target tissue .
the introduction of a substance to the mouth or into the gastrointestinal tract by the way of the mouth ,  usually for systemic action .
procedures involving the restoration ,  reconstruction ,  or alteration of the human body .
an activity intended to do or accomplish something .
a sequence pattern derived from the alignment of multiple sequences that represents the nucleotide or amino acid most likely to occur at each position in a sequence .
a prosthesis placed permanently in tissue .
a change in a document made by correction ,  adding ,  substituting or omitting a certain part .
an act or process of elucidation ,  explication ,  or explanation of the meaning of an event or thing .
any of the individuals who are descended from a common progenitor ,  related by marriage or other legal tie ,  or by a feeling of closeness .
a shortened form of a word or phrase .
a logical or comprehensible arrangement of separate elements ;  a condition of regular or proper arrangement .
terminology entities represent the elements that form and define a terminology or ontology .
a device designed to prevent conception through local or systemic effect ,  such as a barrier contraceptive ,  an intrauterine device ,  or a means of preventing ovulation .
a device placed over the cervix with spermicide before sex and left in place for at least six hours after sex .
the originator or creator of a work ,  especially of a literary composition .
sexual reproduction that produces offspring ,  usually animals or plants .
any action that can ,  in the context of a study or a post - marketing investigation ,  be defined ,  planned ,  scheduled or performed .
official or legal permission to do or own a specified thing .
a steroid sex hormone vital to the maintenance of fertility and secondary sexual characteristics in females .
a procedure for critical evaluation ;  a means of determining the presence ,  quality ,  or truth of something .
work ,  or a product of that work ,  done by one person or group that benefits another .
a class of natural or synthetic hormones that binds to a cytoplasmic receptor and initiates translocation of the hormone - receptor complex to the nucleus of target cells of tissues rich in estrogen receptors ,  including the endometrium ,  myometrium ,  oviduct ,  vagina ,  fallopian tube ,  cervix ,  brain ,  liver ,  placenta ,  ovarian cells ,  leydigs cells ,  kidney ,  prostate ,  pancreas ,  heart ,  and skin .
a non - neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the reproductive system .
the act of making necessary corrections or modifications .
surgical procedures organized by anatomical site ,  system ,  or location .
surgical procedures organized by methodology .
a language produced by articulate sounds ,  as opposed to a written language .
the activities of educating or instructing or teaching ;  activities that impart knowledge or skill .
surgery performed to reduce the size of the breast .
indicates a person currently joined in a legally binding matrimonial union .
indicates a person who is no longer married because of the death of their spouse and has not remarried .
indicates a person whose marriage has been legally dissolved and has not remarried .
the making known of a fact that had previously been hidden ;  release of information .
the activity of protecting something from loss or danger ;  a process that saves organic substances from decay ;  to maintain or keep intact .
the commercial processes involved in promoting and selling and distributing a product or service .
the quality ,  state ,  or process of  ( two or more things )  acting on each other .
a gene that plays a role in the control of gene expression at the level of rna transcription .
the accumulation of knowledge or skill that results from direct participation in events or activities .
the specific reaction pattern of erythrocytes of an individual to the antisera of one blood group ;  e .g . ,  the abo blood group consists of four major blood types: o ,  a ,  b ,  and ab .
to show or display ;  the act of presenting something to sight or view: how something looks .
the work of attending to someone or something .
a stopping .
variety ;  quality ,  state ,  fact ,  or instance of being different .
an empty area ;  an area set apart or available for use .
to fasten ,  grip ,  or support with or as if with a clamp .
procedures utilized to save organic substances from decay .
commanded instruction .
shift the position or location of ;  take out of .
any agent that binds to and activates any of the opioid receptor subtypes .
a document containing a certified statement .
the set of characteristics by which a thing or person is recognized or known and that constitutes it's individuality or set inclusion .
a sponge which combines barrier and spermicidal methods to prevent conception .
a substance that is emitted or released .
an affective state .in contrast to emotions or feelings ,  moods are less specific ,  less intense and less likely to be provoked or instantiated by a particular stimulus or event .
a person other than a family member or partner whose company one enjoys and towards whom one feels affection .
the act of increasing  ( something )  in size or volume or quantity or scope .
the process by which two or more parties work jointly towards a common goal .
exertion or effort directed to produce or accomplish something .
a laboratory procedure that involves the examination of tissues or cells for diagnostic or research purposes .
a laboratory procedure that is performed in more than one of these laboratory specializations: anatomic pathology ,  clinical pathology ,  or molecular pathology .
a marital status in which a voidable marriage is legally declared null and void ,  as though it never existed .
emotional sensations .
the quality of being able to perform ;  a quality that permits or facilitates achievement or accomplishment .
bleeding originating in the organs and tissue that aid in reproduction .
a thoroughfare  ( usually including sidewalks )  that is lined with buildings .
a picture or symbol used in a system of writing .
the act of moving while supporting something in one's hands or on one's body .
an indo - european language belonging to the west germanic branch ;  the official language of britain and most of the commonwealth countries ,  as well as the de facto common language in the united states .
a medical doctor with specialized training in the care of children .
the act of improving by expanding or enlarging or refining .
an analysis  ( often in graphical form )  representing the extent to which something exhibits various characteristics .
infections with bacteria of the genus treponema .
a surgical procedure that removes the breast tissue while leaving the skin ,  nipple ,  areola ,  and chest wall muscles intact .
a native or naturalized member of a state or country ,  especially one entitled to vote and enjoy other privileges there .
a person between 19 and 24 years of age .
the subjective property of a tone ,  determined by the frequency of the wave that produces it ,  that is perceived as highness or lowness .
an interpersonal relationship is a strong ,  deep ,  or close association or acquaintance between two or more people that may range in duration from brief to enduring .
a cap that fits over the cervix and blocks sperm from entering the uterus through the external orifice of the uterus ,  called the os .
an implantable medical device used for the purpose of contraception .
a transdermal patch applied to the skin that releases synthetic estrogen and progestogen hormones to prevent pregnancy .
a neoplasm which causes any of various manifestations of cancer ;  a neoplasm that causes signs and symptoms of disease .
a physician who specializes in anesthesiology and administers anesthesia .
an implanted device that ,  usually ,  enables the penis to become erect .
a medical doctor who specializes in the prevention ,  diagnosis ,  and treatment of mental ,  emotional ,  and behavioral disorders .
individual or group aggressive behavior which is socially non - acceptable ,  turbulent ,  and often destructive .
a device which helps a person perform a task they might not otherwise be able to do very well .
a primary or metastatic malignant neoplasm involving the breast .
the sequence in which children are born into the family .
an action or series of actions that is repeated ,  often in a religious or social setting .
the way a person thinks about their body and how it looks to others .
treatment of retroviral infections with medications that target the virus directly ,  limiting the ability of infected cells to produce new virus particles .
to put into action or service .
a feeling of mental or emotional strain or suspense .
an electronic medium for the recording ,  copying ,  playback ,  broadcasting ,  and display of moving visual media .
failure of the uterus to develop .
positive reinforcement for a desired action ,  behavior or response .
the application of an unpleasant stimulus or penalty for the purpose of eliminating or correcting undesirable behavior .
any unfavorable or unintended disease ,  sign ,  or symptom  ( including an abnormal laboratory finding )  that is temporally associated with the use of a medical treatment or procedure ,  and that may or may not be considered related to the medical treatment or procedure .
a processual entity that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a population is a collection of individuals from the same taxonomic class living ,  counted or sampled at a particular site or in a particular area
an object that can be used to hold things .
a planned process which results in the creation of group of entity from a larger group by the application of predefined criteria .
a machine for performing calculations automatically .
group assignment is a process which has an organism as specified input and during which a role is assigned .
the abnormal mechanisms and forms involved in the dysfunctions of tissues and organs .
objective evidence of disease perceptible to the examining practitioner  ( sign )  and subjective evidence of disease perceived by the patient  ( symptom )  .
a process in which at least one bodily component of an organsim participates .
any clinically abnormal bodily process .
a gender role is a social role encompassing a range of behaviors and attitudes that are generally considered culturally and / or socially acceptable ,  appropriate ,  or desirable for people based on their actual or perceived gender ,  sex and / or sexuality .
male - associated gender - specific social roles and behaviors unrelated to biologic function .
female - associated gender - specific social roles and behaviors unrelated to biologic function .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a reproductive quality inhering in an organism or population by virtue of the bearer's potential reproductive capacity and measured by the number of gametes .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organization .
the proportion of patients with a particular disease during a given year per given unit of population .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's condition before death .
a viability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the cessation of the bearer's life .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce new life or offspring .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being capable of indefinite growth or division .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of exactly one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
qualities and characterization of various types of populations within a social or geographic group ,  with emphasis on demography ,  health status ,  and socioeconomic factors .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the left hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the right hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism exhibits no overall dominance in the use of right or left hand or foot in the performance of tasks that require one hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
an occurrent that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
a follicle that has reached the most mature stage of folliculogenesis ,  characterized by the presence of the antrum .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
an integrative interaction network process of an organism that starts from the moment when the first cell forms ,  has its blueprint stored in the genotype ,  and performs its dynamic process by interacting with its environment to achieve its survival and other motivations .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
anatomical group that is has as its parts distinct anatomical structures interconnected by anatomical structures at a lower level of granularity .
a gonad that produces and releases sperm .
the system of glands that release their secretions  ( hormones )  directly into the circulatory system .
a intromittent organ in certain biologically male organisms .
the organs and tissues involved in the production and maturation of gametes and in their union and subsequent development as offspring .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth .
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products .
excretion that is the output of a kidney .
the conic expansion of the corpus spongiosum that forms the head of the penis .
a spherical aggregation of cells in the ovary that contains a single oocyte .
segment of vagina ,  each instance of which is a membranous fold that partially or wholly occludes the external orifice of some vagina .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
a system of glands that secrete fluids delivered via ducts and tubes directly to organs including the skin .
glands of external secretion that release its secretions to the body's cavities ,  organs ,  or surface ,  through a duct .
an organ that produces and secretes hormones  ( e .g .
a gonad that contains both ovarian follicles and testicular tubular elements .
an organ involved in reproduction .
a reproductive organ which serves to provide female gametes  ( eggs )  .
organ with organ cavity the cavity ,  each instance of which connects some instance of uterine cavity to some instance of peritoneal cavity .
primordial follicles are indiscernible to the naked eye and develop to primary ,  secondary ,  and finally mature vesicular follicles .
the body system that includes all organs involved in reproduction and in the formation and voidance of urine .
an anatomical cavity ,  depression or pit where structures are attached .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
a remnant structure from earlier development or evolution .
liquid components of living organisms .
a substance formed from the secretion of one or more glands of the male genital tract in which sperm cells are suspended .
a substance that is secreted by a mammary gland .
a vestigial structure that is a remnant of an embryonic structure that remains in the adult organism .
denser fibrous covering over one of: penis ,  testicles or ovaries .
the dense fibrous connective tissue layer that covers the testis .
the dense fibrous connective tissue layer that covers the ovaries .
the layer of smooth muscle with bundles of circular fibers internal to longitudinal fibers  ( those that run lengthwise )  that is between the mucosa and the adventitia in the vagina .
erectile tissue at the end of the clitoris ,  which is continuous with the intermediate part of the vestibulovaginal bulbs .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
an external organ of a male organism that is specialized to deliver sperm during copulation .
one of a pair of intromittent organs of male squamates .
a ligament that supports a body part ,  especially an organ .
a ligament that does not connect two skeletal elements .
a fibrous ligament that connects the ovary to the lateral surface of the uterus .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a male anatomical structure found some groups of animals ,  used in mating .
a mace - like spiny - headed rod found on the mid - dorsal surface of heads of male holocephali .
the rod - like extension of the medial portion of the pelvic fin in male elasmobranchii and holocephali .
a remnant of the mesonephric duct that can be found next to the ovary and fallopian tube .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis or clitoris .
a collection of a few scattered rudimentary tubules child ,  situated in the broad ligament between the epoophoron and the uterus .
a section through the tube or network of tubes that connects the ovaries to the outside of the body .
a subdivision of an anatomical tube .
a complex muscular and bony clasping and copulatory organ derived mainly from the pelvic fins ,  found under the head of male phallostethoidea with the anus opening on one side and the genital pore on the other .
one of two openings in the uterine cervix .
opening of uterine cervix into the body of the uterus .
opening of uterine cervix into the vagina .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
a supplemental clasper in holocephali ,  in front of the pelvic fin .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
pelvic clasper organs that have been modified into a flattened structure .
any organ that is the primary organ of vocalization behavior .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
a vascular structure located at the tip of the penis in male mammals or a homologous genital structure of the clitoris in female mammals .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
fluid that lines the vaginal walls that consists of multiple secretions that collect in the vagina from different glands .
eversible phalloid portion of the cloaca that is inserted in the female's vent during copulation .
the system of organs which serve primarily sexual and reproductive purposes ;  often only includes the external genitalia to differentiate from the reproductive system .
an esoteric and racialist religion pioneered by guido von list and jörg lanz von liebenfels respectively ,  in austria between 1890 and 1930 .
a white supremacist racial religion promulgated by david lane ,  based on the exoteric doctrine of ariosophy ,  which took the form of popular myths intended for the lower social classes .
a form of white nationalist modern paganism which was founded in the early 1990s by ron mcvan ,  katja lane and david lane  ( 1938–2007 )  while lane was serving a 190 - year prison sentence for his actions in connection with the white supremacist revolutionary domestic terrorist organization the order ,  of which he was a member .
any of various forms of germanic neopaganism with racialist beliefs ,  especially those that are white nationalist .
any of a group of racialist  ( usually white nationalist )  germanic neopagan religions and / or movements which define themselves as "modern - day" expressions of ancient religions which grew and evolved with the indo - european peoples who settled in northern europe and came to be known as "germanic" .
a north american variant of anglo - saxon neopaganism .
a religion related to armanism which is based on a germanic deity irmin supposedly reconstructed from literaric ,  linguistic and onomastic sources .
any of various modern pagan religion developed in scandinavia during the early 20th century .
any of various racialist american sects of germanic neopaganism  ( and their descendants ,  which may or may not be racialized )  which claim to be ásatrú or otherwise worship the germanic æsir .
a form of racialized nazi - affiliated form of germanic neopaganism ,  which prioritizes the odal rune  ( hence the name )  .
any of various forms of anglo - saxon neopaganism with racialist beliefs ,  especially those that are white nationalist .
a racialized form of anglo - saxon neopaganism ,  particularly that practiced by the england - based group woden's folk ,  which believes that adolf hitler was the reincarnation of the god woden .
any of various forms of anglo - saxon neopaganism without racialist significant beliefs .
a thought or patterns of thought in which an individual generates a belief or beliefs in a conspiracy theory .
an explanation for an event or situation that invokes a conspiracy by sinister and powerful groups ,  often political in motivation ,  when other explanations are more probable .
an idea or a collection of ideas that departs significantly from the prevailing or mainstream view .
a political and social philosophy promoting traditional social institutions in the context of culture and civilization .
a political ideology characterized by respect for american traditions ,  republicanism ,  limited government ,  support for christian values ,  moral universalism ,  pro - business ,  opposition to trade unions ,  strong national defense ,  free trade ,  protectionism ,  anti - communism ,  rugged individualism ,  advocacy of american exceptionalism ,  and a defense of tradition and western culture from the perceived threats posed by communism ,  socialism ,  and moral relativism .
a term for the political ideology ,  style of governance ,  political movement ,  and / or set of mechanisms for acquiring and keeping power that are associated with donald trump ,  the 45th president of the united states  ( 2017–present )  ,  and his political base .
any of various behaviors considered destructive .
any of various behaviors in which one has a tendency to do harm to oneself ,  either as a direct or indirect result of their actions ;  frequently marked by impulse ,  but also includes chronic ,  injurious behaviors .
behavior in which persons hurt or harm themselves without the motive of suicide or of sexual gratification .
a form of self - abuse on the internet .
a form of conservatism which claims to be based in various tenants of the christian faith .
one of the major branches of anthropology ,  focusing on society and culture .
the study of patterns of behaviour in human societies and cultures .
the branch of anthropology that compares and analyzes the characteristics of different peoples and the relationships between them .
a branch of anthropology and the systematic study of individual cultures .
a form of qualitative research in which an author uses self - reflection and writing to explore anecdotal and personal experience and connect this autobiographical story to wider cultural ,  political ,  and social meanings and understandings .
a surgical procedure in which a uterus is transplanted from one organism to another ,  typically in cases in which the uterus is absent or diseased .
a surgical procedure in which a cervix is transplanted from one organism to another ,  typically in cases in which the cervix is absent or diseased .
surgical transplantation of a uterus in which the person receiving the uterus is a cisgender woman .
surgical transplantation of a uterus in which the person receiving the uterus is a transgender woman .
surgical transplantation of a uterus in which the person receiving the uterus is an intersex woman .
surgical transplantation of a uterus in which the person receiving the uterus is a woman .
an aspect of an individual or group which is a demographic descriptor  ( such as age ,  date of birth ,  ethnicity ,  blood type ,  etc .
a data item which describes an individual's sexual orientation or gender identity .
a student who is bisexual .
bisexual queer feminist theory .
librarians who are lgbtqia +  .
a bisexual person who is a librarian .
a parent or parents that are bisexual .
a person who is a student at a tertiary school .
a person who is a student in higher education ,  i .e .
a person who is a student in continuing education ,  i .e .
a student in an undergraduate program .
a student in an postgraduate program .
a student in a college .
a student in a university .
college students who are lgbtqia +  .
a college student who is bisexual .
a mood state which is considered "normal" ,  usually non - depressive and non - manic in nature ;  may sometimes be considered to be positive .
a normal ,  non - depressed ,  and  ( typically )  reasonably positive mood .
the gaze of the male viewer toward a male subject .
the gaze of the female viewer toward a female subject .
a notional environment in which communication over computer networks occurs .
the physical world or reality ,  as opposed to cyberspace or virtual reality .
an assistive device used to aid in ambulation .
chairs mounted on wheels and designed to be propelled by the occupant .
a wheelchair that is propelled by means of an electric motor  ( usually using differential steering )  rather than manual power .
any of various types of chairs used primarily for assistive purposes .
a piece of furniture made for an individual to sit upon .
any of various organizations created by law or public authority .
an organization in which individuals are housed or live .
an institution where persons are confined for punishment under the guise of public protection .
a typically long - term holding facility usually used for those serving longer sentences .
a short - term holding facility usually used for the newly arrested or those waiting trial or sentencing .
a place where people are imprisoned by a third party that is contracted by a government agency .
a penal institution in which a large number of individuals ,  typically those belonging to specific ethnic or racial categories  ( or other categories which a government has deemed dangerous or undiserable )  ,  are held without charges or intent to file charges .
a concentration camp in which the primary purpose of the camp is to kill those within it .
a site for the containment of enemy combatants captured by a belligerent power in time of war .
a weapon ,  typically a firearm ,  which is concealed from view .
the practice of carrying a weapon in public in a concealed or hidden manner ,  either on one's person or in close proximity .
the practice of carrying a firearm in public in a concealed or hidden manner ,  either on one's person or in close proximity .
a person who has been confined to an institution ,  such as a prison or hospital .
a person who has been convicted of a crime or crimes .
lgbtq people who are prisoners .
a transgender person who is a prisoner .
a person who has been convicted of a felony .
a person who is guilty of having committed a felony .
a person who is guilty of a property crime .
a person who is guilty of theft .
a person who is guilty of burglary .
a person who is guilty of robbery .
a criminal behavior involving property .
the taking of another person's property or services without that person's permission or consent with the intent to deprive the rightful owner of it .
illegally entering a building or other areas to commit a crime .
the crime of taking or attempting to take anything of value by force ,  threat of force ,  or by putting the victim in fear .
a person who was convicted of a crime and then was later officially declared innocent of that same crime .
a person who has been convicted of a crime which they did not commit .
a person who had previously been convicted of a crime ;  i .e .
traditionally ,  a criminal behavior of high seriousness ,  whereas a misdemeanor is regarded as less serious .
a statement or declaration which is an authentication of a fact or an attestation as to the truth of a matter .
a behavior which is intended to communicate a falsehood ,  typically used with the purpose of deceiving someone .
a form of psychological manipulation in which the abuser denies the abuse ever took place ,  attacks the victim for attempting to hold the abuser accountable ,  and claims that they ,  the abuser ,  are actually the victim in the situation ,  thus reversing the reality of the victim and offender .
misconduct which takes place online ,  usually  ( but not always )  on the internet .
the internet - based practice of researching and publicly broadcasting private or identifying information  ( especially personally identifying information )  about an individual or organization .
the leather culture as it exists in the lgbtqia +  community .
the leather culture as it exists in the gay male community .
the leather culture as it exists in the lesbian community .
the leather culture as it exists in the deaf community .
a social movement which opposes what is referred to as "gender ideology" ,  a term which does not have a coherent definition .
a variety of language characteristic of a geographical region or ethnic ,  occupational ,  socioeconomic ,  or other group .
linguistic taxa whose members are based on genetic relatedness .
the class of taxa whose instances are used in the scientific classification of language varieties .
taxa are the class of scientific categories used to create a taxonomy and determined according to scientific principles in a given domain .
subdivision of perineum ,  each instance of which is a subdivision of the urogenital area of the perineum .
a temporal measurement of the time period elapsed since an identifiable point in the life cycle of an organism .
a developmental stage that forms part of the sexual maturity rating  ( smr )  scale ,  better known as the tanner scale .
a tanner stage characterized by a lack of pubic hair  ( typically age 10 and younger )  .
a tanner stage characterized by a small amount of long ,  downy hair with slight pigmentation either at the base of the penis and scrotum  ( males )  or the labia majora  ( typically between ages 10 and 11 .5 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by a hair becoming more coarse and curly ,  which begins to extend laterally  ( typically ,  ages 11 .5 to 13 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by adult - like hair quality ,  extending across pubis but sparing the medial thighs  ( typically ages 13 to 15 )  .
a tanner stage characterized by hair extending to the medial surface of the thights  ( typically age 15 +  )  .
subdivision of trunk ,  each instance of which is a regional part of front of trunk ;  together with the meronymic sum of subdivisions of trunk constitute the trunk .
a region of a free upper limb which is distal to the body .
a group of individual anatomical clusters .
a region of a free lower limb which is distal to the body .
zone of connectivity where there is no bona fide boundary between some parts of two contiguous structures .
anatomical cavity ,  which is surrounded by all morphological parts of an organ ;  is continuous within the organ ;  contains one or more body substances .
excretion in liquid state processed by the kidney .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
cardinal organ part ,  each instance of which is bounded predominantly by some bonafide boundaries .
organ segment which is regional part of large intestine .
the terminal portion of the gastrointestinal tract ,  extending from the rectosigmoid junction to the anal canal .
organ with organ cavity ,  each instance of which is continuous proximally with some rectum and distally terminates with some anus .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
organ with organ cavity ,  each instance of which is proximally continuous with some right ureter and left ureter ;  distally continuous with some urethra .
an organ zone of the uterus .
the fundus of the uterus is the top portion ,  opposite from the cervix .
the part of the uterus above the isthmus and below the orifices of the uterine tubes .
the neck portion of the uterus between the lower isthmus and the vagina forming the cervical canal .
outer serosa layer of the uterus .
the inside of the uterus .
an elongated constriction of the lower part of the uterus ,  located at the junction of the body of the uterus and the cervix ,  that is composed principally of smooth muscle .
the internal and external surfaces of the uterus .
the anatomical surface which makes up the anterior part of the uterus .
the anatomical surface which makes up the posterior part of the uterus .
the pouch that contains the testes and their accessory organs .
convoluted duct structure posterior to the testis where one end  ( head of epidydimis )  receives multiple efferent ductules from the testis and then drains to a single ,  larger caliber duct  ( body and tail of epidydimis )  that continuous into the ductus deferens .
an organ zone of the uterine tube .
the ampulla is the second portion of the uterine tube .
a small region of the uterine tube which connects the ampulla and infundibulum to the uterus .
the second part of the uterine tube located between the purple ampulla and the fimbriae .
a fringe of tissue around the ostium of the uterine tube ,  in the direction of the ovary .
the region of the uterine tube which is located in the fundus of the uterus and is continuous with the isthmus .
a serous membrane that is part of a fallopian tube .
the subserosa of the uterine tube .
a layer of smooth muscle in the uterine tube .
a mucosa that is part of the uterine tube .
one of the fimbria of the uterine tube which is long enough to reach the ovary .
a fold of musoca which is part of the uterine tube .
the internal and external surfaces of the ovary .
the pole of the ovary which faces the uterine tube .
the pole of the ovary which faces the uterus .
the outer layer of the ovary ,  composed of cellular connective tissue which contains the ovarian follicles .
the central portion of the ovary ,  composed of loose connective tissue that contains blood vessels ,  lymph vessels and nerves .
the yellow body derived from the ruptured ovarian follicle after ovulation .
white fibrous tissue that replaces the regressing corpus luteum in the human ovary in the latter half of pregnancy ,  or soon after ovulation when pregnancy does not supervene .
the stroma of the ovary is a peculiar soft tissue ,  abundantly supplied with blood vessels ,  consisting for the most part of spindle - shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue .
a depression in the ovary where the ovarian ligament attaches and blood vessels and nerves enter or leave the ovary .
the excretory duct of the testes that carries spermatozoa .
one of the columns of erectile tissue forming the dorsum and sides of the penis .
the circumference of the base of the glans forms a rounded projecting border ,  the corona of the glans penis ,  overhanging a deep retroglandular sulcus ,  behind which is the neck of the penis .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus when the penis is not erect .
secretion produced by preputial gland .
organ with organ cavity ,  each intance of which connects some cavity of the urinary bladder to the exterior .
urethra ,  each instance of which in the male is a canal extending from the neck of some urinary bladder to some urinary meatus ,  and divided into some four parts: from some urinary bladder ,  pars intramuralis  ( or pars preprostatica )  ,  pars prostatica ,  pars membranacea  ( or pars intermedia )  ,  and the pars spongiosa .
the 1 .5 inch long tube carrying urine from the bladder to the outside of the body exiting between the clitoris and vagina .
mesentery ,  each instance of which is a peritoneal fold lateral to and above some ovary which extends out to the wall of some pelvis ;  it contains some ovarian vessels and nerves and passes upward over some iliac vessels .
breast which has as its parts fibroglandular mass .
breast which has as its parts simple lactiferous duct .
organ segment which is regional part of vagina .
the space posterior to the glans clitoridis ,  between the labia minora ;  located within the vestibule are the openings of the vagina ,  the urethra ,  and the ducts of the lesser vestibular glands ,  the greater vestibular  ( bartholin's )  glands ,  and the paraurethral  ( skene's )  glands ,  which release mucus into the vestibule to maintain a moist ,  lubricated vestibular environment ;  the vestibule is also moistened by secretions from the cervical mucus glands located in the inferior region of the uterus .
the anterior wall of the vagina .
the posterior wall of the vagina .
the mucosal layer of the vagina .
any one of the four small recessed areas  ( anterior ,  posterior ,  and two lateral )  that are formed between the margin of the cervix and the vaginal wall .
the vaginal fornix that is front of the cervix .
the vaginal fornix that is behind the cervix .
the vaginal fornix that is to the side of the cervix .
the opening between the labia majora .
longitudinal ridges on the inner surface of the mucous membrane of the vagina .
longitudinal ridges on the anterior inner surface of the mucous membrane of the vagina .
longitudinal ridges on the posterior inner surface of the mucous membrane of the vagina .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the clitoral glans .
one of a pair of sponge - like regions of erectile tissue which contain most of the blood in the clitoris during clitoral erection .
anatomical cavity that connects an organ cavity ,  organ cavity subdivision or cavity of body part subdivision to the exterior ,  completely or partially surrounded by organs or organ parts that are lined by epithelium .
a rounded prominence of adipose tissue overlying the pubic symphysis and adjacent pubic bone .
an organ zone of a cavernous organ .
an organ zone of the corpus spongiosum of the penis .
subdivision of perineum ,  each instance of which is a regional part of the perineum .
subdivision of abdomen ,  each instance of which is a regional part of the abdomen .
subdivision of thorax ,  each instance of which is a regional part of the thorax .
subdivision of urogenital part of perineum ,  each instance of which is a fold of integument running downward and backward from the mons pubis in some female on each side of the median vulvar cleft .
subdivision of urogenital part of perineum ,  each instance of which is a fold of integument ,  on each side of the some female body ,  running posteriorly from som clitoris between some labium majus and the opening of some vagina .
the subserosa of the uterus .
the external genitalia including the clitoris ,  the labia ,  the vestibule ,  and its glands .
the region collectively including the genitals ,  mons pubis ,  anus ,  and buttocks ;  more narrowly ,  the area including just the genitals .
an area of the wall of the vagina .
anatomical set which has as its direct members organ parts of same type .
subdivision of cardinal body part ,  each instance of which is a regional part of body proper .
the top portion of the uterus ;  its contraction is the main expulsive force during labor .
a general term that usually refers to named landmark events during development of an organism .
anatomical boundary entity ,  each instance of which has two spatial dimensions .
a region of a free limb ;  either the upper or lower free limb regions .
subdivision of perineum ,  each instance of which is a subdivision of the urogenital area of the perineum in which male gametes are produced .
subdivision of perineum ,  each instance of which is a subdivision of the urogenital area of the perineum in which female gametes are produced .
anatomical surface ,  which is the internal or external surface of an organ .
anatomical surface ,  which is the subdivision of the surface of an organ .
subdivision of cardinal body part ,  each instance of which is a regional part of some head .
subdivision of pelvis ,  each instance of which is a regional part of the pelvis .
anatomical surface which marks a physical discontinuity between two or more anatomical structures or is an interface between an anatomical space and one more anatomical structures .
anatomical line which corresponds to the intersection of two bona fide anatomical surfaces .
subdivision of head ,  each instance of which has as its constitutional part some viscerocranium  ( facial skeleton )  .
the underside concavity where the arm and the shoulder are joined .
a region of a free upper limb .
a region of a free lower limb .
subdivision of cardinal body part ,  each instance of which is a regional part of trunk .
either of the fleshy mounds in the rear pelvic area of the human body formed by the gluteal muscles .
anatomical structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of the subphylum vertebrata .
anatomical structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of a species .
organ segment which is a regional part of neuraxis .
the breasts are two prominences located on the upper ventral region of the torso of primates .
breasts part of the body of a person who has a masculine gender identity or who has otherwise not experienced breast development due to a lack of feminizing hormones .
breasts part of the body of a person who has a feminine gender identity or who has otherwise experienced breast development due to the presence of feminizing hormones .
a grouping of rugae ,  ridges produced by the folding of the wall of an organ .
portion of body substance in solid state .
portion of body substance which has as its parts of a mixture of fluid ,  solutes and particles .
portion of body fluid which consists predoiminantly of gaseous substance .
portion of body fluid which consists of water and solutes .
portion of body fluid which has as its parts portion of body fluid solution and particles .
the cavity in the space of the prepuce ,  the area where the clitoral hood and foreskin originate .
any of various areas of the labial part of the mouth .
anatomical structure present before birth .
developmental structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of a species during its gestational development .
organ structure present before birth .
the age of the conceptus ,  beginning from the time of fertilization .
organ structure present during the embryonic stage .
developmental organism from fertilization to 8 weeks of gestation .
the orifice existing between the rectum and the anus .
any of various groupings of muscle fibers .
smooth muscle fiber group arranged in sheets .
muscle fiber group which consists of non - striated muscle fibers invested by connective tissue fibers .
organ segment which consists of a wall lined with epithelial cells and which encloses a lumen .
individual hairs on the labial part of the mouth taken together as a set .
anatomical structure which is the aggregate material substance of an individual member of the human species .
a period of time with fixed ,  well - defined limits .
subdivision of cardinal body part ,  each instance of which is a regional part of some wall of head proper .
either of the columns of erectile tissue forming the body of the clitoris or penis .
one of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  and outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
any and all borders of the ovary ,  in particular the mesovarian  ( or anterior )  border and the free  ( or posterior )  border .
one of the poles of the ovary .
a strand of hair that is part of a particular body region .
a mucosa that is part of the vulva .
one of a pair of embryonic tubular structures that extend along the genital ridge and continue toward the cloaca ,  which in persons assigned female at birth will develop into the vagina ,  uterus ,  and fallopian tubes ,  and which will degenerate and be resorbed in those assigned male at birth .
an organ zone of the body of the uterus .
anatomical conduit space that connects two adjacent body spaces ,  surrounded by two or more subdivisions of two or more organs or organ parts .
an anatomical surface which is a subdivision of the surface of the uterus .
a layer of smooth muscle in the urinary tract .
organ component layer adjacent to serosa of organ .
organ component layer that constitutes the outermost layer of an organ .
a part of the system of genitalia .
an external genital phenotype related in some form or fashion to the product and / or maintenance of male gametes or other processes involving male metes .
the outer organs related to sexual activity and / or reproductive processes .
an external genital phenotype related in some form or fashion to the product and / or maintenance of female gametes or other processes involving female gametes .
the inner organs related to sexual activity and / or reproductive processes .
an internal genital phenotype related in some form or fashion to the product and / or maintenance of female gametes or other processes involving female gametes .
an internal genital phenotype related in some form or fashion to the product and / or maintenance of male gametes or other processes involving male gametes .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
the part of the face that is below the eye and to the side of the nose and mouth .
subdivision of mouth ,  each instance of which is a regional part of the mouth .
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
postnatal anatomical structure ,  each instance of which has as it direct parts a heterogeneous collection of some instances of two or more subclasses of anatomcial structure ,  which are spatially related to one another ;  the collections as a whole does not satisfy the definition of any other subclass of anatomical structure .
immaterial anatomical entity of one less dimension than the anatomical entity it bounds or demarcates from another anatomical entity .
the filamentous outgrowth of the epidermis .
the hairs which project from the edges of the eyelids .
the eyebrow is an area of thick ,  delicate hairs above the eye that follows the shape of the lower margin of the brow ridges .
a strand of hair that is part of a head .
a strand of hair that is part of a limb .
a strand of hair that is part of an upper limb .
a strand of hair that is part of an lower limb .
a strand of hair that is part of a trunk .
a strand of hair that is part of the pectoral girdle .
a strand of hair that is part of the axilla .
hair growing in the pubic area .
hair growing in the area around the anus .
the cutaneous plate on the dorsal surface of the distal end of a finger or toe .
the nail at the end of a finger .
a thin ,  horny translucent plate covering the end of each toe .
subdivision of cardinal body part ,  each instance of which is a regional part of some face .
the organ of sight or vision .
a muscular organ in the mouth that is covered with pink tissue called mucosa ,  tiny bumps called papillae ,  and thousands of taste buds .
the largest of the laryngeal cartilages comprising two quadrilateral laminae that fuse to form a median elevation  ( "adam's apple" )  .
nonparenchymatous organ which consists primarily of cartilage tissue .
the nine cartilages of the larynx ,  including the cricoid ,  thyroid and epiglottic ,  and two each of arytenoid ,  corniculate and cuneiform .
organ region ,  each instance of which has one or more floating fiat boundaries .
a zone of thyroid cartilage formed by fusion of the two plate - like laminae of the cartilages .
one of a pair of cone - shaped elastic mucous membrane projecting from the laryngeal wall and forming a narrow slit between them .
material anatomical entity which consists of a maximum number of some instances of discontinuous members of the same class .
solid organ ,  each instance of which has as its direct parts instances of some parenchyma and connective tissue stroma .
parenchymatous organ the stroma of which subdivides the parenchyma into lobes ,  segments ,  lobules and acini .
solid organ which consists of organ parts that are arranged as fascicles or sheets .
organ the direct parts of which consist of either fascicles or sheets or parenchyma and connective tissue stroma .
organ ,  each instance of which has as its direct parts instances of some organ cavity and organ wall .
cavitated organ in which its unshared parts surround one continuous anatomical space .
segment of neuraxis with one or more fixed or anchored fiat boundaries .
subdivision of cardinal body part ,  each instance of which is a regional part of some head proper .
immaterial anatomical entity ,  each instance of which has three spatial dimensions .
anatomical cluster in which parts of two or more anatomical structures establish physical continuity with one another or intermingle their component parts .
facial hair grown on the outer surface of the upper lip .
vertical groove in the upper lip .
organ component ,  each instance of which is an inneer layer or region of some organ .
organ component ,  each instance of which is an outer layer or region of some organ .
part of the pectoral area of the chest ,  each instance of which is an area of the pectoral chest .
region of the pectoral part of the chest ;  each instance of which is an area of the anterior chest .
the pit in the center of the abdominal wall marking the point where the umbilical cord entered in the fetus .
anatomical structure which is demarcated by bona fide or fiat boundaries within a cell .
anatomical entity ,  each instance of which has three or fewer spatial dimensions .
organ segment which is a regional part of the forebrain .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the cerebral cortex ,  cerebral white matter ,  basal ganglia ,  septum and fornix ,  as well as subcortical gray and white matter structures .
any of various parts of the breast .
an anatomical entity is an object that is a structural part  ( material or immaterial )  of a biological entity .
portion of body fluid suspension which consists of spermatozoa and seminal plasma .
portion of secreted substance produced prostatic glands ,  bulbourethral glands or the seminal vesicles .
the part of the face above the eyes .
anatomical structure ,  each instance of which has as its parts one or more ordered aggregates of some nucleotide ,  amino acid fatty acid or sugar molecules bonded to one another .
the unborn young of a viviparous mammal ,  in the postembryonic period ,  after the major structures have been outlined .
excretion in semisolid state processed by the intestine .
subdivision of larynx ,  each instance of which is a regional part of the larynx .
anatomical cluster which has as its direct parts all or some members of two or more organ subclasses and one or more organ part subclasses which are grouped together according to some shared attributes .
an organ zone of the glans penis .
an organ zone of the ovary .
a boundary entity of the ovary ,  each instance of which has one spatial dimension .
physical anatomical entity ,  each instance of which is a three - dimensional space ,  surface ,  line or point associated with some material anatomical entity .
anatomical structure present after birth .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical structure ,  which is a subdivision of a cardinal body part ;  it may exclude bones ;  is demarcated from other subdivisions of the same cardinal body part by anatomical surfaces or lines or topographical references ;  together with other contiguous subdivisions of the same cardinal body part ,  it constitutes a cardinal body part .
anatomical structure ,  each instance of which is a subdivision of some tissue demarcated by bonafide or fiat boundaries .
a component of the epithelium composed of a particular tissue .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure or two or more adjacent anatomical structures .
cardinal organ part ,  each instance of which is a fiat subdivision of some organ .
subdivision of breast which consists of skin ,  connective tissue and smooth muscle bundle ,  modified sebaceous glands and papillary part of lactiferous duct .
subdivision of the epidermis ;  a tissue component of the epithelium .
individual hairs on the face taken together as a set .
individual hairs taken together as a set .
skin - associated structures that serve a particular function including sensation ,  contractility ,  lubrication and heat loss .
heterogeneous anatomical cluster ,  each instance of which has as its direct parts instances of two laminae of visceral peritoneum and regional parts of some gastrointestinal tract ,  vascular tree and neural tree .
developmental organism which is a diploid nucleated cell that results from the union of the sperm and an ovum .
region of anterior chest ,  each instance of which is an area of the anterior chest .
a gene that codes for any rna or protein product other than a regulatory factor  ( i .e .
the posterior border of the ovary .
the anterior border of the ovary .
the portions of the uterus to which the broad ligament is attached .
a grouping of anatomical folds .
the buttocks  ( singular: buttock )  are two rounded portions of the anatomy ,  located on the posterior of the pelvic region of primates  ( including humans )  ,  and many other bipeds or quadrupeds ,  and comprise a layer of fat superimposed on the gluteus maximus and gluteus medius muscles .
a group of hymenal caruncles ,  considered together .
structures of the vagina that are transverse ridges formed out of the supporting tissues and vaginal epithelium .
ridge at the lower anterior column of the vaginal rugae ,  parallel to the vagina .
the opening in the infundibulum of uterine tube into the abdominal cavity .
the portion of the reproductive tract that connects the fallopian tubes to the uterus .
organ segment which is regional part of cervix .
supravaginal portion of cervix: the part of the cervix uteri that does not protrude into the vagina .
the growing corpus luteum ;  referring to as such due to its red coloration .
the serosa of the testis .
the subserosa of the testis .
production or presence of gas in the gastrointestinal tract which may be expelled through the anus .
a group of individual subdivisions of a cardinal body part .
a grouping of components of an organ .
a grouping of regions of an organ .
tags that are left behind following hymen rupture ;  they are pink and form a ring at the vaginal opening .
anatomical set which has as its direct members ,  organs ,  organ parts and tissues of same or different types .
organ component which consists of connective tissue that subdivides parenchyma into lobes ,  segments ,  lobules ,  acini ,  or cortex and medulla and the vascular and the neural networks intermixed with this connective tissue .
anatomical structure ,  each instance of which has as its direct parts some instance of portions of two or more types of tissue and is continuous with some instance of one or more anatomical structures ,  likewise constituted by some portions of two or more tissues distinct from those of their complement .
organ component which is a part of a wall of an organ or a membranous layer of an organ .
organ component layer arranged in sheets or lamellae .
a peptide that is biogenic in nature .
small proteins that function as hormonal signals ,  synthesized and secreted by one tissue or organ with physiological effects on other tissues or organs .
a neuropeptide which acts on the pituitary gland in order to stimulate the release of luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
hormones that stimulate gonadal functions such as gametogenesis and sex steroid hormone production in the ovary and the testis .
an area or region of a dna molecule .
the sequences of a gene that are present in the final ,  mature ,  spliced messenger rna molecule from that gene .
non - coding ,  intervening sequences of dna that are transcribed ,  but are removed from within the primary gene transcript and rapidly degraded during maturation of messenger rna .
a folded part or structure which is anatomical in nature  ( such as skin or muscle which is folded )  .
organ component layer ,  each instance of which is lining the internal side of some organ .
the subserosa of an organ .
cardinal organ part .each instance of which is a fiat subdivision of some organ component .
organ region ,  each instance of which has one or more anchored fiat boundaries .
an organ zone of the vagina .
anatomical space which connects two or more compartment spaces or two or more anatomical cavities .
that portion of the body that lies between the thorax and the pelvis .
the body region lying between the genital area and the anus on the surface of the trunk ,  and to the shallow compartment lying deep to this area that is inferior to the pelvic diaphragm .
the walnut shaped accessory sex gland of the reproductive system .
the upper ventral region of the torso of an organism .
anatomical boundary entity ,  each instance of which has one spatial dimension .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
subdivision of cardinal body part which has as its direct part either upper or lower appendicular skeleton .
the distal extremity of the leg in vertebrates ,  consisting of the tarsus  ( ankle )  ;  metatarsus ;  phalanges ;  and the soft tissues surrounding these bones .
material anatomical entity ,  each instance of which is either in fluid or solid state ,  with or without admixture of some cells and biological macromolecules ;  produced by some anatomical structures or derived from some inhaled or ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures .
organ with organ cavity ,  each instance of which connects some renal sinus to some urinary bladder .
the distal portion of the upper extremity .
the erectile tissue in the vulva .
a social entity pertains to the interaction among individuals and groups .
a social structure is a social entity which consists of relationships between two or more entities .
a disposition is the tendency of a capability to be exhibited under certain conditions or in response to a certain stimulus  ( trigger )  .
information content entity is an object that requires some background knowledge or procedure to correctly interpret .
a function is a capability that satisfies some agentive objective ,  or  ( evolutionary )  optimization .
an object quality is quality of an object .
a quantity is an informational entity that gives the magnitude of a property .
a measurement of a spatial location relative to a frame of reference or other objects .
a measurement value is a quantitative description that reflects the magnitude of some attribute .
a mathematical entity is an information content entity that are components of a mathematical system or can be defined in mathematical terms .
a plan is a set of intended actions ,  through which one expects to achieve a goal .
a language entity implements some language specification for the visual interpretation and is part of some document .
a visual language entity is a language entity that is manifested within the spectrum of light and can be pereceived and processed by a visual system .
a figure is a graphical entity which consists of a visual  ( n - dimentional )  arrangement of information entities .
an image is an affine projection of a visual entity to a two dimensional surface .
still image produced from radiation - sensitive materials  ( sensitive to light ,  electron beams ,  or nuclear radiation )  ,  generally by means of the chemical action of light on a sensitive film ,  paper ,  glass ,  or metal .
a specification is a description of the essential technical attributes / requirements for an object or procedure ,  and may be used to determine that the object / procedure meets its requirements / attributes .
an action specification is a specification composed of a sequence of instructions to achieve some objective .
an information content entity that is a mark ( s )  or character ( s )  used as a conventional representation of another entity .
a volume made up of pages fastened along one edge and enclosed between protective covers .
a chapter is a document section of a book or thesis .
a novel is a fictitious prose narrative of book length ,  typically representing character and action with some degree of realism .
a document section is a component of a document .
a capability is a realizable entity whose basis lies in one or more parts or qualities and reflects possibility of an entity to behave in a specified way under certain conditions or in response to a certain stimulus  ( trigger )  .
a sentence is a grammatical unit consisting of one or more words that bear minimal syntactic relation to the words that precede or follow it .
a word is the smallest free form  ( an item that may be expressed in isolation with semantic or pragmatic content )  in a language .
something that identifies or uniquely points to something or someone else .
a term used for identification .
a magazine is a periodical that typically contains essays ,  stories ,  poems ,  etc . ,  by many writers ,  and often photographs and drawings ,  frequently specializing in a particular subject or area ,  as hobbies ,  news ,  or sports .
a description is language entity in which elements of a language  ( formal or natural )  are used to characterize an entity .
a class is a collection of sets which can be unambiguously defined by a property that all its members share .
a list is any enumeration of a set of items .
a note is a brief document .
a blog is a publication accessible at some website and is typically about various experiences .
a conference proceedings is a book composed of papers presented at a conference .
a book series is a collection of books that have been sequentially published .
a periodical dedicated to a particular subject .
a manual is a document that instructs on the usage of a device .
a periodical is a publication that appears on a regular schedule .
a newspaper is a serial publication containing news regarding current events ,  informative articles ,  diverse features ,  editorials ,  and advertising .
work consisting of a formal report giving details of the investigation and results of a medical or other scientific problem .
an honor's thesis is a thesis prepared as a requirement for an honor's undergraduate degree .
a master's thesis is a thesis prepared as a requirement for a master's degree .
a bibliographic attribute is an attribute related to publications .
a label is a term that is associated with some entity .
a part of a person's personal name .
the portion  ( in some cultures )  of a personal name that indicates a person's family  ( or tribe or community ,  depending on the culture )  .
the set of names by which an individual is known and that can be recited as a word - group ,  with the understanding that ,  taken together ,  they all relate to that one individual .
a title is a textual entity that summarily describes some entity .
a proposition is a sentence expressing something true or false .
a dimensional quantity is a quantity that has an associated unit .
an argument is a set of one or more declarative sentences  ( or propositions )  known as the premises along with another declarative sentence  ( or proposition )  known as the conclusion .
a position or opinion or judgment reached after consideration .
an invalid argument is an argument where the truth of the conclusion is false because it is not a logical consequence of the premises .
a term is a word or phrase used to denote one or more entities .
those affective states which can be experienced and have arousing and motivational properties .
a set is a collection of entities ,  for which there may be zero members .
a collection of documents is a non - zero set of documents .
a website is a collection of documents published on the world wide web .
a sequence of images displayed in succession giving the illusion of continuous movement .
an excerpt is a contiguous or discontiguous portion of a document .
a quote is a excerpt that is attributed to a particular source .
a web page is a document that is published according to world wide web standards .
email message is a digital document that is composed of a header and a body and is transmitted using the smtp protocol .
a functional specification is a specification that describes the characteristics of an object .
a concept is term that refers to a generalization of a set of attributes or entities .
a term variant is a term that is a variant of another term .
dysfunction is a capability to act in a manner that is abnormal or opposite to the object's typical function .
a number is a mathematical object used to count ,  label ,  and measure .
a doctor is an individual who practices medicine ,  which is concerned with promoting ,  maintaining or restoring human health through the study ,  diagnosis ,  and treatment of disease ,  injury ,  and other physical and mental impairments .
a file is an information - bearing object that contains a physical embodiment of some information using a particular character encoding .
a nurse is an individual that is involved in the protection ,  promotion ,  and optimization of health and abilities ,  prevention of illness and injury ,  alleviation of suffering through the diagnosis and treatment of human response ,  and advocacy in the care of individuals ,  families ,  communities ,  and populations .
a courtesy title for a teacher of the highest academic rank in a college or university .
individuals enrolled in a school or formal educational program .
a senior member of an academy ,  college ,  or university ;  a person who attends an academy ;  a person engaged in scholarly pursuits ;  one who is academic in practice .
an emotional state characterized by marked annoyance or hostility .
hate is a deep and emotional extreme dislike ,  directed against a certain object or class of objects .
love is an emotion of a strong affection and personal attachment .
a solar year ,  the time it takes the earth to complete one revolution of the sun  ( between 365 .24 and 365 .26 days depending on the point of reference )  .
a period into which a year is divided ,  historically based on the phases of the moon .
rotational period of a planet  ( especially earth )  .
a biological quality is a quality held by a biological entity .
a phrase is a group of words functioning as a single unit in the syntax of a sentence .
a person is an object that has certain capacities or attributes constituting personhood .
the specification that refers to the composition and arrangement of parts of an object .
a computational entity is an information content entity operated on using some computational system .
a representation is a entity that in some way represents another entity  ( or attribute thereof )  .
an attribute is a characteristic of some entity .
a collection is a set for which there exists at least one member ,  although any member need not to exist at any point in the collection's existence .
a formal specification is a mathematical description of software or hardware that may be used to develop an implementation .
a social role is a role that is ascribed to individuals in a community .
a medical practioner is an individual that provides medical care .
the process of carrying out a plan or procedure so as to discover facts or information about the object of study .
affection is an emotion characterized with a feeling or type of love for another living thing .
annoyance is an unpleasant emtion that is characterized by a abnormal or excessive sensitivity to some external stimulus .
anxiety is an emotion charactersized by intense feeling of fear and concern coupled with a physical response .
arousal is an emotion characterized by state of reactive to stimuli .
contentment is an emotion characterized by acknowledgement and satisfaction of the current state of affairs .
curiosity is the strong desire to know or learn something .
desire is a strong emotion of wanting to have something or wishing for something to happen .
disgust is a feeling of revulsion or profound disapproval aroused by something unpleasant or offensive .
a positive emotion is an emotion that feels good .
negative emotion is an emotion that does not feel good .
envy is an emotion that occurs when a person lacks another's  ( perceived )  superior quality ,  achievement or possession and wishes that the other lacked it .
euphoria is an emotion characterized by intense feelings of well - being ,  elation ,  happiness ,  ecstasy ,  excitement ,  and joy .
excitement is a positive emotion of feeling great enthusiasm and eagerness .
fear is a negative emotion induced by a perceived threat that induces one to hide or move quickly away from the location of the perceived threat .
the motivational and / or affective state resulting from being blocked ,  thwarted ,  disappointed or defeated .
happiness is an emotion characterized by positive or pleasant emotions ranging from contentment to intense joy .
subjective feeling of having committed an error ,  offense or sin ;  unpleasant feeling of self - criticism .
hostility is the intense negative emotion of being in conflict or opposition to someone or something .
hurt is an unpleasant feeling ,  emotion or sensation .
indifference is an emotion characterized by lack of interest ,  concern ,  or sympathy .
interest is the emotion of wanting to know or learn about something or someone .
jealousy is an emotion and typically refers to the negative thoughts and feelings of insecurity ,  fear ,  and anxiety over an anticipated loss of something that the person values ,  particularly in reference to a human connection .
joy is an emotion of intense happiness .
loathing is an intense dislike or disgust .
loneliness is an unpleasant emotion in which a person feels a strong sense of emptiness ,  yearning distress and solitude resulting from inadequate quantity or quality of social relationships .
lust is the strong desire for sex .
panic is a sudden emotion of fear which is so strong as to dominate or prevent reason and logical thinking ,  replacing it with overwhelming feelings of anxiety and frantic agitation consistent with an animalistic fight - or - flight reaction .
passion is the intense desire for something .
sensation of enjoyment or gratification .
pride is an emotion of satisfaction of attachment toward one's own or another's choices and actions ,  or toward a whole group of people ,  and is a product of praise ,  independent self - reflection ,  or a fulfilled feeling of belonging .
fury ;  violent ,  intense anger .
regret is a feeling of sadness ,  repentance ,  or disappointment over something that has happened or been done .
sadness is emotional pain associated with ,  or characterized by feelings of disadvantage ,  loss ,  despair ,  helplessness ,  sorrow ,  and rage .
satisfaction is an emotion of fulfillment of one's wishes ,  expectations ,  or needs ,  or the pleasure derived from this .
shame is the emotion borne from feeling responsible for the commission of an offense .
worry is the emotion characterized by concern over a real or imaginary issue .
a measurement scale is a functional specification that specifies an allowed range of categories or values .
a numeric scale of measurement is one that only specifies numeric values .
a decimal scale of measurement is one that only specifies decimal values .
an integer scale of measurement is one that only specifies integer values .
a television program is a audiovisual media that is produced and broadcast using a television .
apprehension is the negative emotion that something unpleasant will occur .
resentment is disgust directed toward a higher status individual .
pain is an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage ,  or described in terms of such damage .
an object contrived for a specific purpose .
a gene that contains an open reading frame which codes for a protein .
a predicted gene is a gene that was identified through computational method but has not been experimentally validated .
an experimentally validated gene is a gene whose existence has been demonstrated through experimental methods .
an investigation that has the goal of verifying ,  falsifying ,  or establishing the validity of a hypothesis .
a procedure is a process that attempts to achieve one or more objectives by following an established set of actions .
a clinical trial is an intervention trial to determine the safety and efficacy of medical interventions  ( e .g . ,  drugs ,  diagnostics ,  devices ,  therapy protocols )  .
an opinion is a belief that is the result of emotion or interpretation of facts .
a medical procedure is a procedure to identify ,  examine ,  alleviate or eliminate an undesirable biological disease or disorder .
a report is a textual document made that present focused ,  salient content to a specific audience .
a medical report is a report prepared by a health care practioner about test outcomes or health status of an individual .
a morpheme is the smallest semantically meaningful unit in a language .
an intervention study has the objective of improving the condition of an individual or a group of individuals ,  and demonstrates the magnitude of that capability by comparing it to a control group .
a sample is a limited quantity of something  ( e .g .
speculation is an opinion based on incomplete evidence .
a study is a process that realizes the steps of a study design .
a vocabulary is a collection of terms .
a serial arrangement in which things follow in logical order or a recurrent pattern .
an audio recording is an electrical or mechanical inscription and re - creation of sound waves ,  such as spoken voice ,  singing ,  instrumental music ,  or sound effects .
a slideshow is a visual presentation of information contained within a collection of slides .
a statement is a proposition that is either  ( a )  a meaningful declarative sentence that is either true or false ,  or  ( b )  that which a true or false declarative sentence asserts .
audo ,  visual ,  and audiovisual modes of communicating information for mass consumption .
the quality pertaining to the allelic complement of a biological system at a single locus on the dna .
a sequence of nucleotides which encode an rna or protein product .
humiliation is the abasement of pride ,  which creates mortification or leads to a state of being humbled or reduced to lowliness or submission .
a portion of a personal name that is written between the person's given name and their surname a person may be given a middle name regardless of whether it's necessary to distinguish them from other people with the same given name and surname .
primarily in the united states ,  an abbreviation of a person's middle name or names ,  often for the purposes of signing documents .
a diagnosis is the result of a medical investigation to identify a disease or disorder from its signs and symptoms .
any of various objects with specified purpose or purposes .
a subdivision of the month into longer periods of work days punctuated by shorter weekend periods of days for markets ,  rest ,  or religious observation such as a sabbath .
a legal document is a formally executed written document that can be formally attributed to its author ,  records and formally expresses a legally enforceable act ,  process ,  or contractual duty ,  obligation ,  or right ,  and therefore evidences that act ,  process ,  or agreement .
a bill is proposed legislation under consideration by a legislature .
the portion of an mrna or genomic sequence which encodes specifically for a protein sequence .
a terminology is a set of terms used for a specified application .
an action taken to manage or cure a disorder ,  disease ,  or other medical condition .
an organism may be either a prokaryote or a eukaryote .
an organ is a collection of tissues joined in structural unit to serve a common function .
a submolecular entity is a part of a molecular entity .
a gene is part of a nucleic acid that contains all the necessary elements to encode a functional transcript .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a biological entity is a heterogeneous substance that contains genomic material or is the product of a biological process .
the assemblage of traits or outward appearance of an individual .
an organic submolecule is connected region of a molecule .
a nucleic acid part is a component of a nucleic acid .
a covalently connected molecular entity is the mereological sum of a collection of covalently bonded atoms .
a multi - cellular organism is an organism that consists of more than one cell .
a unicellular organism is a organism that is composed of a single cell .
a cellular organism is an organism that contains one or more cells .
a non - cellular organism is an organism that does not contain a cell .
an infectious agent which consists of two parts ,  genetic material and a protein coat .
a pathogen or infectious agent is a microorganism that causes disease in its host .
a submolecule is a mereological sum of covalently bonded atoms .
a gene component is a part of a gene .
a heterogeneous substance is a chemical substance that is composed of more than one different kind of component .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an instrument is a device which provides a mechanical or electronic function .
a temporal entity is an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
the process of physical changes through which a child's body matures into an adult body capable of sexual reproduction .
a measurement is an information entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by an instrument .
an ethnic group is a group of people whose members identify with each other through a common heritage ,  consisting of a common culture ,  including a shared language or dialect .
any aspect of an individual's life ,  behavior ,  an environmental exposure ,  or an inborn or inherited characteristic that increases the likelihood of a disease ,  condition or injury .
intellectual or mental process whereby an organism becomes aware of or obtains knowledge .
estimation of the average time a person lost due to premature death .
a relationship between persons related as members of a domestic group ,  or a number of domestic groups linked through descent from a common ancestor ,  marriage ,  or adoption .
a quantification of some aspect of the genome ,  e .g .
the genetic variation of individuals in a population .
quantification of some aspects of a person's menstrual cycle such as its length .
something that happens at a given place and time .
a viral infectious disease that results in formation of lesions ,  located in mouth ,  located in face ,  located in genitalia ,  or located in hands ,  has material basis in human herpesvirus 1 or has material basis in human herpesvirus 2 ,  which are transmitted by direct contact with an active lesion or body fluid of an infected person .
any of various oxygenases with incorporation of one atom of oxygen .
