an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a continuant that is dependent on one or other independent continuant bearers .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an endogenous molecular entity that results in a colour of an organism as the consequence of the selective absorption of light .
members of the class of phenols that contain 2 or more benzene rings each of which is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
a particle not known to have substructure .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
a physiological role played by any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cultured cell that is freshly isolated from a organismal source ,  or derives in culture from such a cell prior to the culture being passaged .
obsolete: a cell line cell that is expected to be capable of an unlimited number of divisions ,  and is thus able to support indefinite growth / propagation in vitro as part of a immortal cell line .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
obsolete: a classification of cells by the organisms within which they are contained .
any fibroblast that is deriived from the neural crest .
a cell found in the embryo before the formation of all the gem layers is complete .
cell that is part of the migratory cranial neural crest population .
obsolete .use po:0000079 from plant ontology instead .
a cell in vitro that is or has been maintained or propagated as part of a cell culture .
cell that is part of the migratory trunk neural crest population .
male germ cell is a germ cell that supports male gamete production .
a male germ cell that develops from spermatogonia .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
an euploid male germ cell of an early stage of spermatogenesis .
female germ cell is a germ cell that supports female gamete production .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
an undifferentiated germ cell that proliferates rapidly and gives rise to oocytes .
a female gamete where meiosis has progressed to metaphase ii and is able to participate in fertilization .
a germline cell that contributes to the development of the oocyte by transferring cytoplasm directly to oocyte .
a smooth muscle cell derived from the neural crest .
a cell that will develop into a neuron often after a migration phase .
a cell of a platelike structure ,  especially a thickened plate of ectoderm in the early embryo ,  from which a sense organ develops .
an apocrine cell is a secretory cell characterized loss of part of the cytoplasm during the process of secretion  -  secretions are budded off through the plasma membrane producing membrane bound vesicles containing the secreted substance .
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
a stem cell that self - renews as well as give rise to a single mature cell type .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
a progenitor cell committed to the erythroid lineage .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
a myeloid progenitor cell committed to the monocyte lineage .
a fully differentiated eosinophil ,  a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin .
a myeloblast committed to the neutrophil lineage .
a fully differentiated basophil ,  a granular leukocyte with an irregularly shaped ,  pale - staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes ,  and with cytoplasm that contains coarse granules of variable size .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
neural stem cell is characterized as an undifferentiated cell that originates from the neuroectoderm and has the capacity both to perpetually self - renew without differentiating and to generate multiple types of lineage - restricted progenitors .
a stem cell that can give rise to multiple lineages of cells .
a progenitor cell committed to myeloid lineage ,  including the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a progenitor cell committed to the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a oligopotent progenitor cell committed to the lymphoid lineage .
a stem cell from which all cells of the body can form .
a precursor cell with a limited number of potential fates .
a cell that is commited to differentiating into a muscle cell .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
skeletogenic cell that is typically non - terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag rich matrix ;  is not buried in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  located adjacent to cartilage tissue  ( including within the perichondrium )  ,  and develops from prechondroblast  ( and thus prechondrogenic )  cell .
skeletogenic cell that produces enamel ,  overlies the odontogenic papilla ,  and arises from the differentiation of a preameloblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that secretes dentine matrix ,  is derived from the odontogenic papilla ,  and develops from a preodontoblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that produces cementum  ( a bony substance that covers the root of a tooth )  ,  is part of the odontogenic papilla ,  and develops from a precementoblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that secretes osteoid ,  is capable of producing mineralized  ( hydroxyapatite )  matrix ,  is located adjacent to or within osteoid tissue ,  and arises from the transformation of a preosteoblast cell .
obsolete: a classification of cells by their microscopic appearance .
a cell that has a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
a neurectoderm derived cell that lines the neural lumen .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
an epithelial cell that has a cilia .
an epithelial cell that is part of a duct .
an endothelial cell that lines the vasculature .
obsolete .use po:0000066 from plant ontology instead .
a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell is a cell usually found in a two dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a flattened epithelial cell of mesenchymal origin that lines the serous cavity .
a cell which moves among different tissues of the body ,  via blood ,  lymph ,  or other medium .
a cell found predominately in the blood .
an epithelial cell of the lung .
an epithelial cell of the pancreas .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a tissue - resident macrophage of the reticuloendothelial system found on the luminal surface of the hepatic sinusoids involved in erythrocyte clearance .
a specialized phagocytic cell associated with the absorption and removal of the mineralized matrix of bone tissue ,  which typically differentiates from monocytes .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
a leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm .
a fully differentiated neutrophil ,  a granular leukocyte having a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
a cell that is found in almost all tissues containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
a specialized epithelial cell involved in sensory perception .
most generally any neuron which is not motor or sensory .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes or inhibits movement .
any neuron having a sensory function ;  an afferent neuron conveying sensory impulses .
a type of interneuron that has two neurites ,  usually an axon and a dendrite ,  extending from opposite poles of an ovoid cell body .
neuron with an axon and two or more dendrites .
neuron with two neurites that are fused grossly when they protrude from the soma and bifurcate a short distance from the soma .
neuron with one neurite that extends from the cell body .
a neruon whose cell body is within an autonomic ganglion .
a neuron that uses acetylcholine as a vesicular neurotransmitter .
a neuron that is part of nerve found outside the central nervous system .
a vertebrate phagocyte with a single nucleus .
an endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal .
pioneer neurons establish a pathway in the developing central nervous system and then undergo programmed cell death once the adult axons ,  which follow them ,  have made connections with the target site .
large intrinsic neuron located in the granule layer of the cerebellar cortex that extends its dendrites into the molecular layer where they receive contact from parallel fibers .
the output neuron of the cerebellar cortex .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a neuroglial cell of ectodermal origin ,  i .e . ,  the astrocytes and oligodendrocytes considered together .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system  -  the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system macrophage found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system .
cell of the single layer of large flattened cells covering the surface of the cornea .
ectoderm destined to be nervous tissue .
a connective tissue cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three - dimensional masses .
an inactive fibroblast ;  cytoplasm is sparse ,  endoplasmic reticulum is scanty with flattened nucleus .
a fat - storing cell found mostly in the abdominal cavity and subcutaneous tissue of mammals .
a mature osteoblast that has become embedded in the bone matrix .
skeletogenic cell that is terminally differentiated ,  secretes an avascular ,  gag - rich matrix ,  is embedded in cartilage tissue matrix ,  retains the ability to divide ,  and develops from a chondroblast cell .
skeletogenic cell that secretes dentine matrix ,  is derived from odontogenic papilla .
an osteocytelike cell with numerous processes ,  trapped in a lacuna in the cement of the tooth .
a cell occurring in the peripheral part of the vitreous body of the eye that may be responsible for production of hyaluronic acid and collagen .
obsolete: a classification of cells by their primary end goal or behavior .
a cell capable of processing and presenting lipid and protein antigens to t cells in order to initiate an immune response .
a pigment cell is a cell that contains pigment granules .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a specialized epithelial cell that is capable of synthesizing and secreting certain biomolecules .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
a cell of an exocrine gland ;  i .e .
a cell that secretes glycosaminoglycans .
a cell that is usually basal in position ,  cuboidal with round nucleus ,  short microvilli ,  secretes pepsinogen .
obsolete: a cell of the lymphoid series that can react with antigen to produce specific cell products called antibodies .
a cell that specializes in secretion of surfactant in the alveoli of the lung .
epithelial progenitor cell of the lung .
a cell of the epithelial lining that produce and secrete mucins .
a large ,  oval stomach epithelial cell with a central nucleus ;  source of gastric acid .
a cell of an endocrine gland ,  ductless glands that secrete substances which are released directly into the circulation and which influence metabolism and other body functions .
an endocrine cell that is located in the epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract or in the pancreas .
an endocrine cell that has the specialized function to produce and secrete hormones in response to neuronal signals .
a cell that stores epinephrine secretory vesicles .
a cell that secretes insulin and is located towards the center of the islets of langerhans .
a cell that secretes glucagon .
a type of enteocrine cell found in the periphery of the islets of langerhans that secretes glucagon .
a d cell located in the pancreas .
a progesterone secreting cell in the corpus luteum .
a leydig cell is a testosterone - secreting cell in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
a steroid hormone secreting cell that secretes estradiol .
a cell whose primary function is intermediary metabolism .
the main structural component of the liver .
a cell whose primary function is to shorten .
contractile cells resembling smooth muscle cells that are present in glands ,  notably the mammary gland ,  and aid in secretion .
an animal cell that has characteristics of both a fibroblast cell and a smooth muscle cell .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte .
a somatic cell located in skeletal muscle .
a muscle cell that develops tension more slowly than a fast - twitch fiber .
a muscle cell that can develop high tension rapidly .
a non - striated ,  elongated ,  spindle - shaped cell found lining the digestive tract ,  uterus ,  and blood vessels .
a striated muscle cell of an arthropod heart that participates in heart contraction .
a cell that is capable of detection of a stimulus involved in sensory perception .
the peripheral receptor for pain .
a cell specialized to transduce mechanical stimuli and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
a mechanoreceptor cell located in the inner ear that is sensitive to auditory stimuli .
a cellular receptor which mediates the sense of temperature .
a cell specialized to detect chemical substances and relay that information centrally in the nervous system .
a cell type found in the spherical or ovoid clusters of receptor cells found mainly in the epithelium of the tongue and constituting the end organs of the sense of taste .
a cell specialized to detect and transduce light .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a cell that takes up and metabolizes substances .
a cell within an epithelial cell sheet whose main function is to act as an internal or external covering for a tissue or an organism .
a meso - epithelial cell that lies between the cartilaginous fibers in the synovial membrane of a joint and produces hyaluronic acid .
a cell whose primary function is to prevent the transport of stuff across compartments .
a supporting cell projecting inward from the basement membrane of seminiferous tubules .
a neuroglial cell of the peripheral nervous system which forms the insulating myelin sheaths of peripheral axons .
a cell that moves by its own activities .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
obsolete: a classification of cells by the number of their nuclei .
a cell that lacks a nucleus .
a cell with a single nucleus .
a cell with more than one nucleus .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
a red blood cell .in mammals ,  mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen .
a non - nucleated disk - shaped cell formed by extrusion from megakaryocytes ,  found in the blood of all mammals ,  and mainly involved in blood coagulation .
any cell capable of ingesting particulate matter via phagocytosis .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  and capable of b cell mediated immunity .
a modified epidermal cell located in the stratum basale .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a cell characteristically found lining hollow organs that are subject to great mechanical change due to contraction and distention ;  originally thought to represent a transition between stratified squamous and columnar epithelium .
obsolete .use po:0000353 from plant ontology instead .
type of neuron that is a primary mechanosensory cell ,  with peripheral neurites innervating the skin with free nerve endings .
obsolete .use po:0020047 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0020019 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0020048 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0020094 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000355 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000373 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000351 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000400 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0004011 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .consult plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000284 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete ,  use term from plant ontology .
obsolete .use po:0000077 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete: initial population of prestalk cells that activate the ecma promoter at the mound stage and that presumably further differentiate into psta and psto cells .
obsolete .use po:0020090 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0020097 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000282 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000071 from plant ontology instead .
a cell of a filament of a fungal mycelium .
obsolete .use po:0000191 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000274 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000293 from plant ontology instead .
a cell whose primary function is to provide structural support ,  to provide strength and physical integrity to the organism .
obsolete .consult plant ontology instead .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that produces growth hormone ,  somatotropin .
obsolete .use po:0020099 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000115 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000273 from plant ontology instead .
obsoleted .commonly used for a cell in root epidermis that gives rise to a root hair .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
obsolete  ( was not defined before being made obsolete )  .
an epithelial cell found in the trachea .
an epidermal cell which synthesizes keratin and undergoes a characteristic change as it moves upward from the basal layers of the epidermis to the cornified  ( horny )  layer of the skin .
columnar glandular cell with irregular nucleus ,  copious granular endoplasmic reticulum and supranuclear granules .
a cell secreting tears ,  the fluid secreted by the lacrimal glands .
obsolete .use po:0000082 from plant ontology instead .
a cell secreting sebun ,  an oily substance secreted by sebaceous glands ,  composed of keratin ,  fat ,  and cellular debris .
a cell secreting sweat ,  the fluid excreted by the sweat glands of mammals .
obsolete .use po:0000431 from plant ontology instead .
an epithelial cell that lines the peripheral gas exchange region of the lungs of air - breathing vertebrates .
a cell that is specialised to accumulate a particular substance ( s )  .
obsolete .use po:0000075 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000301 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete ,  use term from plant ontology .
a cell derived from the specialized ectoderm flanking each side of the embryonic neural plate ,  which after the closure of the neural tube ,  forms masses of cells that migrate out from the dorsal aspect of the neural tube to spread throughout the body .
a mesenchymal cell in embryonic development found in a contracting mass and that gives rise to osteoprogenitors .
a cell found within the adrenal medulla that secrete biogenic amine hormones upon stimulation .
an early neural cell developing from the early ependymal cell of the neural tube .
any animal cell containing pigment granules .
a pigment cell that is capable of detecting light stimulus that is involved in visual perception .
a mesenchymal cell that is part of a small mass of condensed mesenchyme in the enamel organ ;  it differentiates into the dentin and dental pulp .
a specialized mesenchymal cell that resides in the dermal papilla located at the bottom of hair follicles .
a cell of the sclera of the eye .
a cell of the choroid of the eye .
a cell lining the outside of the blastocyst .
a cell of the outer layer of a blastula that gives rise to the ectoderm after gastrulation .
an undifferentiated cell produced by early cleavages of the fertilized egg  ( zygote )  .
a multifate stem cell found in skeletal muscle than can differentiate into many different cell types ,  including muscle .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of a sphincter .
a smooth muscle cell assocatiated with the vasculature .
a cell of the early embryo at the developmental stage in which the blastomeres ,  resulting from repeated mitotic divisions of the fertilized ovum  ( zygote )  ,  form a compact cell mass .
a cell of the embryo in the early stage following the blastula ,  characterized by morphogenetic cell movements ,  cell differentiation ,  and the formation of the three germ layers .
an epithelial cell of the integument  ( the outer layer of an organism )  .
obsolete .use po:0000081 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .consult plant ontology .
diploid cell produced by the fusion of sperm cell nucleus and egg cell .
obsolete .use po:0000084 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000352 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000078 from plant ontology instead .
the cell protoplasm after removal of the cell wall .
an epidermal cell that is part of a cell cluster organ of the insect integument  ( such as a sensillum )  and that secretes a cuticular specialization that forms a socket around the base of a cuticular specialization produced by a trichogen cell .
an epidermal cell that is part of a cell cluster organ of the insect integument  ( such as a sensillum )  and that secretes a cuticular specialization ,  often in the form of a hair ,  bristle ,  peg or scale .
the support cell that makes the thecogen dendritic cap  -  a cuticle - like matrix around the tip of the eo - dendrite and which encloses the soma of the eo - neuron .
an elongated fibrocyte that is part of a tendon .
an insect immune cell that develops from plasmatocyte .
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
obsolete .consult plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000332 from plant ontology instead .
a cell that initiates an electrical signal and passes that signal to another cell .
an epithelial cell of the hypodermis of flatworms .
a cell whose nucleus ,  or nuclei ,  each contain more than two haploid genomes .
a cell whose nucleus contains a single haploid genome .
obsolete: a classification of cells by the number of haploid genome equivalents of their nucleus or nuclei .
a cell whose nucleus has two haploid genomes .
an epithelial cell found in c . elegans that firmly hold the outer body wall and the lips to the inner cylinder of the pharynx in a manner that keeps these organs from breaking apart ,  while still giving each organ freedom of movement during feeding .
an epithelial fate stem cell found in flatworms .
a free floating cell ,  including amebocytes and eleocytes ,  in the coelom of certain animals ,  especially annelids .
a cell whose primary function is to cause growth by stimulating cell division in its immediate cellular environment .
a cell involved in the elimination of metabolic and foreign toxins ,  and in maintaining the ionic ,  acid - base and water balance of biological fluids .
forms the terminal part of the cuticle - lined excretory duct of c . elegans .
a scaffolding cell type found in c . elegans ,  this cell plays a supportive role to the muscle arms .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
large ,  stellate fibroblast found along the network of collagen fibers of the reticulum of the spleen ;  synthesize the matrix components of the reticulum .
obsolete .use po:0000244 from plant ontology instead .
a secretory cell that discharges its product without loss of cytoplasm .
a rounded cell that is usually situated next to sinusoids ;  secretes follicular stimulating hormone  ( fsh )  and luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
a peptide hormone secreting cell pituitary that produces luteinizing hormone .
a peptide hormone cell that secretes prolactin .
a cell of the intermediate pituitary that produces melanocyte stimulating hormone .
a cell with extensive dendritic processes found in the b cell areas  ( primary follicles and germinal centers )  of lymphoid tissue .
a muscle cell in which the fibers are organised into sarcomeres but in which adjacent myofibrils are offset from each other ,  producing an oblique banding pattern .
an epithelial cell of the parathyroid gland that is arranged in wide ,  irregular interconnecting columns ;  responsible for the synthesis and secretion of parathyroid hormone .
fat cells with light coloration and few mitochondria .
a cell from the thermogenic form of adipose tissue found in many species ,   particularly in newborns and hibernating mammals ,  but also in lesser amounts in adults of other mammals including humans .
a cell of hematopoietic origin ,  typically resident in particular tissues ,  specialized in the uptake ,  processing ,  and transport of antigens to lymph nodes for the purpose of stimulating an immune response via t cell activation .
langerhans cell is a conventional dendritic cell that has plasma membrane part cd207 .
a cell capable of producing epinephrine .
obsolete .use po:0004531 from plant ontology instead .
a cell type that secretes 5 - hydroxytryptamine  ( serotonin )  .
a cell capable of producting norepiniphrine .
an epidermal cell that secretes chitinous cuticle from its apical side .
an epidermal progenitor cell that arises from neuroectoderm and in turn gives rise to the epidermal sheath of ventral and cephalic regions .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that produces adrenocorticotropin ,  or corticotropin .
a neural progenitor cell that is the daughter of a neuroblast  ( sensu arthopoda )  .
obsolete .use po:0000076 from plant ontology instead .
a cell whose primary function is to protect the organism .
an insect renal cell that filters hemolymph and is found with other pericardial nephrocytes in two rows flanking the dorsal vessel .
obsolete .use po:0000245 from plant ontology instead .
a basophil cell of the anterior pituitary that produces thyroid stimulating hormone ,  thyrotrophin .
a somatic epithelial cell of the ovarian follicle / egg chamber .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes oxytocin stimulating hormone
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes vasopressin stimulating hormone
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes secretin stimulating hormone
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes cholecystokin stimulating hormone .
an endocrine cell that secretes juvenile hormone .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes bombesin stimulating hormone .
mast cell subtype whose granules contain both the serine proteases tryptase and chymase .
mast cell subtype that contains only the serine protease trypase in its granules .
a large binucleate cell that forms a 'garland' around the anterior end of the proventriculus  ( cardia )  at its junction with the esophagus in both adults and larvae flies .
a large secretory cell found in clusters underlying the epidermis of the abdominal segments of larval abdominal segments .
a photoreceptor cell that detects visible light .
obsolete: a cell responsible for spontaneous cytotoxicity of a variety of tumor cells without prior immunization .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that cooperates with other lymphocytes via direct contact or cytokine release to initiate a variety of immune functions .
obsolete: subpopulation of cd4 +  cells which induce cd8 +  suppressor t cells to suppress antibody production by b cells .
a photoreceptor cell that detects ultraviolet light .
a photoreceptor cell that is sensitive to blue light .
a photoreceptor cell that is sensitive to green light .
a photoreceptor cell that is sensitive to red light .
an interneuron  ( also called relay neuron ,  association neuron or local circuit neuron )  is a multipolar neuron which connects afferent neurons and efferent neurons in neural pathways .
a connective tissue cell of an organ found in the loose connective tissue .
a supporting cell for the developing female gamete in the ovary of mammals .
a cell found throughout the gastrointestinal tract and in the pancreas .
a flattened stroma cell forming a sheath or theca outside the basal lamina lining the mature ovarian follicle .
a enteroendocrine cell part of the glands of the gastric mucosa .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes substance p .
an endorphine cell that secretes enkephalin .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes endorphin .
an endocrine cell found in the pyloric gland mucosa  ( antral mucosa )  of the stomach of mammals and responsible for the secretion of gastrin and enkephalin .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes gastrin .
an epithelial cell found in the basal part of the intestinal glands  ( crypts of lieberkuhn )  including the appendix .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes androgen binding protein .
a paracrine cell is a secretory cell that secretes an agonist into intercellular spaces in which it diffuses to a target cell other than that which produced it .
a precursor cell destined to differentiate into cardiac muscle cell .
a precursor cell destined to differentiate into smooth muscle myocytes .
a myoblast that differentiates into skeletal muscle fibers .
a non - neuronal cell that surrounds the neuronal cell bodies of the ganglia .
a type of foam cell derived from a macrophage containing lipids in small vacuoles and typically seen in atherolosclerotic lesions ,  as well as other conditions .
a phagocyte in vertebrates that is able to phagocytosis .
a phagocyte from organisms in the nematoda or protostomia clades .
obsolete: the reproductive structure of bacteria ,  fungi and cryptograms .
a cell from the inner layer of the trophoblast of the early mammalian embryo that gives rise to the outer surface and villi of the chorion .
a cell ,  usually of bacteria or yeast ,  which has partially lost its cell wall .
a cell from the outer syncytial layer of the trophoblast of an early mammalian embryo ,  directly associated with the maternal blood supply .
a neuron which conveys sensory information centrally from the periphery .
a neuron which sends impulses peripherally to activate muscles or secretory cells .
a nerve cell where transmission is mediated by nitric oxide .
obsolete .use po:0020093 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0000349 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete: a cell in a tissue that markedly differs in form ,  size ,  or contents from other cells in the same tissue .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a pigment cell .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
obsolete .use po:0000289 from plant ontology instead .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has the phenotype t - bet - positive ,  cxcr3 - positive ,  ccr6 - negative ,  and is capable of producing interferon - gamma .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has the phenotype gata - 3 - positive ,  cxcr3 - negative ,  ccr6 - negative ,  and is capable of producing interleukin - 4 .
an immature ,  nucleated erythrocyte occupying the stage of erythropoeisis that follows formation of erythroid progenitor cells .
a nucleated immature erythrocyte ,  having cytoplasm generally similar to that of the earlier proerythroblast but sometimes even more basophilic ,  and usually regular in outline .
a nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte in which the nucleus occupies a relatively smaller part of the cell than in its precursor ,  the basophilic erythroblast .
the final stage of the nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte ,  before nuclear loss .
the earliest cytologically identifiable precursor in the thrombocytic series .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes gastrin stimulating hormone .
a giant cell 50 to 100 micron in diameter ,  with a greatly lobulated nucleus ,  found in the bone marrow ;  mature blood platelets are released from its cytoplasm .
a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is committed to the granulocyte and monocyte lineages .
an immature erythrocyte that changes the protein composition of its plasma membrane by exosome formation and extrusion .
a precursor in the monocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between the monoblast and monocyte .
a late neutrophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is indented to more than half the distance to the farthest nuclear margin but in no area being condensed to a single filament .
interneuron of the vertebrate retina .
an erythrocyte having a nucleus .
a rounded ,  inactive form that certain bacteria assume under conditions of extreme temperature ,  dryness ,  or lack of food .
a promyelocyte committed to the neutrophil lineage .
a cell found in fat bodies whose primary function is intermediary metabolism .
a mesenchymal stem cell capable of developing into blood vessel endothelium .
a cell that originates in the neural crest ,  that has certain cytochemical and ultrastructural characteristics and is found scattered throughout the body ;  types include melanocytes ,  the cells of the chromaffin system ,  and cells in the hypothalamus ,  hypophysis ,  thyroid ,  parathyroids ,  lungs ,  gastrointestinal tract ,  and pancreas .
a mesenchymal cell found in the developing heart and that develops into some part of the heart .
a neuroepithelial cells that occurs singly or in small groups ,  close to the outer follicular borders but within the follicular basement membrane of the thyroid .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types in the vertebrate retina .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
an epithelial cell of the cornea .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
a subtype of enteroendocrine cells found in the gastrointestinal mucosa ,  particularly in the glands of pyloric antrum ;  duodenum ;  and ileum .
a cell in vitro that has undergone physical changes as a consequence of a deliberate and specific experimental procedure .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a promyelocyte and a metamyelocyte ;  in this stage ,  production of primary granules is complete and neutrophil - specific granules has started .
a macrophage resident in the peritoneum under non - inflammatory conditions .
a neutrophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and the band form neutrophil .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in the alveoli of the lungs .
an epithelial cell that has its apical plasma membrane folded into microvilli to provide ample surface for the absorption of nutrients from the intestinal lumen .
obsolete: a class of lymphocytes characterized by the lack of surface markers specific for either t or b cells .
the reproductive cell in multicellular organisms .
a thermoreceptor cell that detects reduced temperatures .
a specialized osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
a bulbous cell that is medially placed in one row in the organ of corti .
a progesterone secreting cell in the corpus luteum that develops from theca cells .
a thermoreceptor cell that detects increased temperatures .
a large ,  progesterone secreting cell in the corpus luteum that develops from the granulosa cells .
a steroid hormone secreting cell that secretes androgen .
an elongated ,  spindle - shaped ,  cell that is located between the basal lamina and the plasmalemma of a muscle fiber .
an erythrocyte lacking a nucleus .
a spore formed following meiosis .
the smaller of two types of asexual spores formed by some fungi .
pyramidal neurons have a pyramid - shaped soma with the apex and an apical dendrite pointed toward the pial surface and other dendrites and an axon emerging from the base .
an asexual ,  nonmotile spore formed by higher fungi ;  conidia are usually made from the side or tip of specialized sporogenous cells and do not form by progressive cleavage of the cytoplasm .
a fungal cell with two or more genetically distinct nuclei .
a mechanoreceptor in the organ of corti .
a receptor in the vascular system ,  particularly the aorta and carotid sinus ,  which is sensitive to stretch of the vessel walls .
a fungal cell with two genetically distinct haploid nuclei .
one of the two photoreceptor cell types of the vertebrate retina .
a spore formed following mitosis or mitoses .
the larger of two types of asexual spores formed by some fungi ;  usually round or oblong .
a thick walled spore that stores and protects one or more nuclei following sexual reproduction in an ascomycete .
a thick walled ,  sexual ,  resting spore formed by zygomycetes ;  sometimes refers to the spore and the multi - layered cell wall that encloses the spore ,  the zygosporangium .
a mechanoreceptor located in the acoustic maculae and the semicircular canals that mediates the sense of balance ,  movement ,  and head position .
a eosinophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a promyelocyte and a metamyelocyte ; in this stage ,  production of primary granules is complete and eosinophil - specific granules has started .
a progenitor cell committed to the basophil lineage .
a basophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a promyelocyte and a metamyelocyte ;  in this stage ,  production of primary granules is complete and basophil - specific granules has started .
a thick walled spore containing one or more haploid nuclei produced by sexual reproduction in an basidiomycete ;  formed externally on extrusions of the basidium .
obsolete: a walled spore produced in a sporangium .
a neuron that uses gaba as a vesicular neurotransmitter
obsolete: a sporangiospore that is motile ,  having flagella .
a myoblast that is committed to a myotube - specific program of differentiation but not yet fused .
a secretory cell that is grouped together with other cells of the same type to form grape shaped clusters known as acini  ( singular acinus )  .
a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
a mature alpha - beta t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd4 coreceptor .
a t cell expressing an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd8 coreceptor .
granule cell that is part of the olfactory bulb .
a cell involved in transporting nutrients ,  minerals ,  water ,  gases and other chemicals between cells for a variety of purposes including conveying nutrition to other tissues ,  removing waste products from the tissues ,  conveying gases for respiration ,  distributing heat and repelling invasion of foreign substances .
a cell that can perform photosynthesis ,  in which carbohydrates are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water ,  using light as the energy source .
a cell that is specialized to store a particular substance ( s )  ,  which is ( are )  later released from the store for a particular purpose .
a cell whose primary function is to support other cell types .
cells forming a framework supporting the organ of corti .
a cell that is found in the perisinusoidal space of the liver that is capable of multiple roles including storage of retinol ,  presentation of antigen to t cells  ( including cd1d - restricted nkt cells )  ,  and upon activation ,  production of extracellular matrix components that can contribute to liver fibrosis .
a tall supporting cell that is arranged in rows adjacent to the last row of outer phalangeal cells .
a cuboidal cell which along with boettcher's cells form the floor of the external spiral sulcus ,  external to the organ of corti .
the outer phalangeal cells of the organ of corti .
a cell that stains readily in the anterior pituitary gland .
an acidophilic chromophil cell that of the anterior pituitary gland .
a basophillic chromophil cell that of the anterior pituitary gland .
a cell that is resistant to stains .
a supportive cell of the vertebrate pituitary that provides macromolecular transport and secretes hormones .
type of radial astrocyte in the cerebellar cortex that have their cell bodies in the purkinje cell layer and processes that extend into the molecular layer ,  terminating with bulbous endfeet at the pial surface .
a cell with long processes running parallel to adjacent axons in the proximal infundibulum of the neurohypophysis .
undifferentiated ;  mitotic stem cell for other epithelial cell types ;  rounded or elliptical with little cytoplasm and few organelles ;  contain cytokeratin intermediate filament .
a phagocytic cell formed by the fusion of macrophages ,  occurs in chronic inflammatory responses to persistent microorganism such as m .tuberculosis ,  component of granulomas .
a smooth muscle cell that synthesizes ,  stores ,  and secretes the enzyme renin .
a cell with delicate radiating processes known as desmosomes that form intercellular bridges between other cells of this type .
a cell type that encapsulates the capillaries and venules in the kidney .
a mucus - secreting cell ,  with numerous apical secretory vesicles containing mucins ;  nucleus are basally displaced ;  numerous at the neck of mucus secreting glands
this cell type produces and secretes melatonin and forms the pineal parenchyma .
a glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized kidney epithelial cell that contains  \ "feet \ " that interdigitate with the  \ "feet \ " of other glomerular epithelial cells .
a primary oocyte is an oocyte that has not completed female meosis i .
a secondary oocyte is an oocyte that has not completed meiosis ii .
a diploid cell that has derived from a spermatogonium and can subsequently begin meiosis and divide into two haploid secondary spermatocytes .
one of the two haploid cells into which a primary spermatocyte divides ,  and which in turn gives origin to spermatids .
an epithelial cell that secretes cuticle .
an extracellular matrix secreting cell that secretes eggshell .
an extracellular matrix secreting cell that secretes glycocalyx .
an extracellular matrix secreting cell that secretes collagen .
obsolete: the cell characteristic of an organ ,  as distinguished from associated connective or supporting tissues .
an elongated ,  contractile cell found wrapped about precapillary arterioles outside the basement membrane .
a primordial germ cell is a diploid germ cell precursors that transiently exist in the embryo before they enter into close association with the somatic cells of the gonad and become irreversibly committed as germ cells .
obsolete .use po:0000290 from plant ontology instead .
a mature sexual reproductive cell of the female germline .
cell of the intestinal epithelium with a brush border made up of many parallel packed microvilli ;  associated with absorption ,  particularly of macromolecules .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that is capable of developing into a muscle cell .
a cell present in the developing cns .
an absorptive cell of the gut epithelium that endocytoses microorganisms and intact macromolecules from the gut lumen and transports them to the subepithelial space where they are presented to antigen - presenting cells and lymphocytes .
a cell that transports hormones from neurosecretory cells .
obsolete .use po:0004010 from plant ontology instead .
a columnar / cuboidal epithelial cell that secretes cerebrospinal fluid .
a fibroblast - like cell that provides support at neuromuscular junctions in vertebrates and are localized outside the synaptic basal lamina .
a cell with both myofibrils and secretory granules .
a neuroglial cell of the peripheral nervous system inside the basal lamina of the neuromuscular junction providing chemical and physical support to the synapse .
a stellate interneuron having 7 - 10 dendrites that may branch .
one of a transient population of pioneering neurons in the cerebral cortex .
a cell that stores and secretes pancreatic polypeptide hormone .
a type of glomus or chief cell ,  is sensitive to hypoxia and produce catecholamines .
a neuron that releases dopamine as a neurotransmitter .
supports paraganglial type 1 cell .
cell that provides some or all mechanical ,  nutritional and phagocytic support to their neighbors .
a specialized endothelial cell that senses extracellular signals and guides the directed growth of blood vessels .
specialized ependymal cell that produces the cerebrospinal fluid from the blood and secretes it into the lumen of the brain and spinal chord .
stromal cell that forms the internal covering of the vertebrate brain and produces ecm for this and the choroid plexus .
epithelial cells derived from neural plate and neural crest .
cumulus cell is a specialized granulosa cell that surrounds and nourishes the oocyte .
a subset of motor neurons that innervates intrafusal muscle fibers and has small diameter axons .
a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
a differentiated cell that functions as a site of nitrogen fixation under aerobic conditions .
an asexual 1 - celled spore  ( primarily for perennation ,  not dissemination )  .
a cell at the front of a migrating epithelial sheet .
a cell of a layer of transitional epithelium in the wall of the bladder ,  ureter ,  and renal pelvis ,  external to the lamina propria .
muscle cell which has as its direct parts myofilaments organized into sarcomeres .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
the set of neurons that receives neural inputs via bipolar ,  horizontal and amacrine cells .
a motor neuron that is located in the cervical region of the spinal cord and selectively innervates the sternocleidmastoid or trapezius muscle .
a round chondrocyte that first differentiates in the late embryonic growth plate of bone .
chondrocyte that is terminally differentiated ,  produces type x collagen ,  is large in size ,  and often associated with the replacement of cartilage by bone  ( endochondral ossification )  .
a columnar chondrocyte that differentiates in the late embryonic growth plate of bone .
a neuron that laterally connects other neurons in the inner nuclear layer of the retina .
cardiac muscle cells are striated muscle cells that are responsible for heart contraction .
a pigment cell derived from the neural crest .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner half of the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with photoreceptors cells and neurons in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina that is synapsed by rod photoreceptor cells but not by cone photoreceptor cells .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptor cells and neurons in the inner plexiform layer .
an off - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer .
an off - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer .
an off - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer .
an off - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the outer half of the inner plexiform layer .
an on - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner half of the inner plexiform layer .
an on - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner half of the inner plexiform layer .
an on - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner half of the inner plexiform layer .
an on - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner half of the inner plexiform layer .
an on - bipolar neuron found in the retina and having connections with cone photoreceptors cells and neurons in the inner half of the inner plexiform layer .
a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation ,  typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
a immature or mature cell in the lineage leading to and including erythrocytes .
a nucleated precursor of an erythrocyte that lacks hematopoietic lineage markers .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  or mast cell lineage .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has an irregularly shaped ,  pale - staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes ,  and with cytoplasm that contains coarse ,  bluish - black granules of variable size .
any of the immature forms of a basophil ,  in which basophilic specific granules are present but other phenotypic features of the mature form may be lacking .
a basophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a basophilic myelocyte and a band form basophil .
a late basophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band ,  not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature basophil .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin .
any of the immature forms of an eosinophil ,  in which eosinophilic specific granules are present but other phenotypic features of the mature form may be lacking .
a eosinophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a eosinophilic myelocyte and a band form eosinophil .
a late eosinophilic metamyelocyte in which the nucleus is in the form of a curved or coiled band ,  not having acquired the typical multilobar shape of the mature eosinophil .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
any of the immature forms of a neutrophil in which neutrophilic specific granules are present but other phenotypic features of the mature form may be lacking .
a tissue - resident macrophage of the renal glomerular mesangium involved in the disposal and degradation of filtration residues ,  presentation of antigen to t cells and in tissue remodeling .
a specialized mononuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of bone ,  precursor of multinuclear osteoclasts .
a specialized multinuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of bone .
a specialized multinuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
a specialized mononuclear osteoclast associated with the absorption and removal of cementum .
a dendritic cell of the myeloid lineage .
a phagocyte formed by the fusion of mononuclear phagocytes .
a dendritic cell type of distinct morphology ,  localization ,  and surface marker expression  ( cd123 - positive )  from other dendritic cell types and associated with early stage immune responses ,  particularly the release of physiologically abundant amounts of type i interferons in response to infection .
a b cell that is mature ,  having left the bone marrow .
a terminally differentiated ,  post - mitotic ,  antibody secreting cell of the b cell lineage with the phenotype cd138 - positive ,  surface immunonoglobulin - negative ,  and mhc class ii - negative .
a memory b cell is a mature b cell that is long - lived ,  readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ,  and has been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
a naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  cd27 - negative and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor complex .
an alpha - beta t cell that has an immature phenotype and has not completed t cell selection .
a alpha - beta t cell that has a mature phenotype .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that is found in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that is capable of killing target cells in an antigen specific manner with the phenotype perforin - positive and granzyme b - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
a alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell found in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a mature alpha - beta t cell of the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a t cell that expresses a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
a gamma - delta t cell that has an immature phenotype .
a gamma - delta t cell that has a mature phenotype .
a mature gamma - delta t cell that is found in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell that has the phenotype cd8 - alpha alpha - positive .
a gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - negative and cd8 - negative .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - positive ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - positive .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive and expressing the t cell receptor beta - chain in complex with the pre - t cell receptor alpha chain .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
a thymocyte expressing the alpha - beta t cell receptor complex as well as both the cd4 and cd8 coreceptors .
an immature alpha - beta t cell that is located in the thymus and is cd4 - positive and cd8 - negative .
an immature alpha - beta t cell that is located in the thymus and is cd8 - positive and cd4 - negative .
a long - lived ,  antigen - experienced t cell that has acquired a memory phenotype including distinct surface markers and the ability to differentiate into an effector t cell upon antigen reexposure .
a mature alpha - beta t cell of a distinct lineage that bears natural killer markers and a t cell receptor specific for a limited set of ligands .
a t cell which regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
an immature b cell is a b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive and surface igd - negative ,  and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation .
a precursor b cell is a b cell with the phenotype cd10 - positive .
an immature b cell of an intermediate stage between the pre - b cell stage and the mature naive stage with the phenotype surface igm - positive and cd19 - positive ,  and are subject to the process of b cell selection .
a b cell of distinct lineage and surface marker expression .
a b - 1 b cell that has the phenotype cd5 - positive .
a b - 1 b cell that has the phenotype cd5 - negative ,  but having other phenotypic attributes of a b - 1 b cell .
a conventional b cell subject to antigenic stimulation and dependent on t cell help and with a distinct surface marker expression pattern from b - 1 b cells .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature and expresses natural killer cell receptors  ( nkr )  .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally mature and expresses a variety of inhibitory and activating receptors that recognize mhc class i and other stress related molecules .
a lymphoid progenitor cell that is committed to the natural killer cell lineage ,  expressing cd122  ( il - 15 )  receptor ,  but lacking many of the phenotypic characteristics of later stages of natural killer cell development such as expression of nk activating and inhibitory molecules .
a progenitor cell of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
a lymphoid progenitor cell of the t cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific marker expression ,  but not yet fully committed to the t cell lineage .
a progenitor cell of the thrombocyte ,  a nucleated blood cell involved in coagulation typically seen in birds and other non - mammalian vertebrates .
a myeloblast committed to the basophil lineage .
a promyelocyte committed to the basophil lineage .
a progenitor cell of the mast cell lineage .
a myeloblast committed to the eosinophil lineage .
a promyelocyte committed to the eosinophil lineage .
a progenitor cell of the neutrophil lineage .
the most primitive precursor in the granulocytic series ,  having fine ,  evenly distributed chromatin ,  several nucleoli ,  a high nuclear - to - cytoplasmic ration  ( 5:1 - 7:1 )  ,  and a nongranular basophilic cytoplasm .
a precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myeloblast and myelocyte ,  that has distinct nucleoli ,  a nuclear - to - cytoplasmic ratio of 5:1 to 3:1 ,  and containing a few primary cytoplasmic granules .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell is multipotent ,  but not capable of long - term self - renewal .
a progenitor cell restricted to the lymphoid lineage .
a progenitor cell restricted to the myeloid lineage .
an immature cell of the conventional dendritic cell lineage ,  characterized by high levels of antigen uptake via endocytosis ,  macropinocytosis ,  and phagocytosis ,  and typically found resident in the tissues .
a mature cell of the conventional dendritic cell lineage ,  characterized by a high capacity for antigen presentation and typically found in a lymph node .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
a resting mature b cell that has the phenotype igm - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd23 - positive and cd21 - positive ,  and found in the b cell follicles of the white pulp of the spleen or the corticol areas of the peripheral lymph nodes .
a rapidly cycling mature b cell that has distinct phenotypic characteristics and is involved in t - dependent immune responses and located typically in the germinal centers of lymph nodes .
a mature b cell that is located in the marginal zone of the spleen with the phenotype cd23 - negative and cd21 - positive and expressing a b cell receptor usually reactive to bacterial cell wall components or senescent self components such as oxidized - ldl .
an epithelial cell of the vestibular sensory organ that is characterized by intense enzymatic activities and numerous basal membrane infoldings .
an olfactory receptor cell in which the apical ending of the dendrite is a pronounced ciliated olfactory knob .
an olfactory receptor cell in which the apical ending of the dendrite is a knob that bears numerous microvilli .
an olfactory receptor cell with short cilia growing in an invagination bordered by microvilli .
a neuron that releases serotonin as a neurotransmitter .
neuromast mantle cell is a non - sensory cell .
neuromast support cell is a non - sensory cell of the neuromast that extend between the sensory hair cells from the basement membrane to the apical surface ;  neuromast support cells are surrounded by neuromast mantle cells .
olfactory epithelial support cell is a columnar cell that extends from the epithelial free margin to the basement membrane of the olfactory epithelium .
interneuromast cell is a neuroectodermal cell deposited by the migrating lateral line primordium between the neuromasts .
hair cell is a mechanoreceptor cell that is sensitive to movement of the hair - like projections  ( stereocilia and kinocilia )  which relay the information centrally in the nervous system .
neuromast hair cell is a hair cell that acts as a sensory receptor of the neuromast ;  it is morphologically polarized as a result of the relative position of the single kinocilium and the clusters of stereocilia on its apical surface .
a skeletal muscle myoblast that differentiates into slow muscle fibers .
a skeletal muscle myoblast that differentiates into fast muscle fibers .
a monocyte that responds rapidly to microbial stimuli by secreting cytokines and antimicrobial factors and which is characterized by high expression of ccr2 in both rodents and humans ,  negative for the lineage markers cd3 ,  cd19 ,  and cd20 ,  and of larger size than non - classical monocytes .
a macrophage which develops from an inflammatory monocyte and is recruited into the tissues in response to injury and infection as part of an inflammatory response .
a macrophage that suppresses immune responses .
an elicited macrophage that is recruited into the tissues in response to injury and infection as part of an inflammatory response ,  expresses high levels of pro - inflammatory cytokines ,  ros and no ,  and shows potent microbicidal activity .
a macrophage constitutively resident in a particular tissue under non - inflammatory conditions ,  and capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a gut - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in lamina propria of the gut .
a tissue - resident macrophage resident found in the thymus ,  involved in the clearance of apoptotic thymocytes .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in a secondary lymphoid organ .
a secondary lymphoid organ macrophage found in a lymph node .
a gut - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in tonsils .
a gut - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in the peyer's patches .
a secondary lymphoid organ macrophage found in the spleen .
a splenic macrophage found in the marginal zone of the spleen ,  involved in recognition and clearance of particulate material from the splenic circulation .
a splenic macrophage found in the areas surrounding the white pulp of the spleen ,  adjacent to the marginal sinus .
a splenic macrophage found in the red - pulp of the spleen ,  and involved in immune responses to blood - borne pathogens and in the clearance of senescent erythrocytes .
a type of monocyte characterized by low expression of ccr2 ,  low responsiveness to monocyte chemoattractant ccl2 / mcp1 ,  low phagocytic activity ,  and decrease size relative to classical monocytes ,  but increased co - stimulatory activity .
a splenic macrophage found in the white pulp of the spleen .
a splenic white pulp macrophage found in and around the germinal centers of the white pulp of the spleen that participates in phagocytosis of apoptotic b cells from the germinal centers .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system macrophage found in the meninges  ( the three membranes that surround the brain )  .
a central nervous system macrophage found at the interface between the blood and the cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a central nervous system macrophage found in small blood vessels in the brain .
a thymic macrophage found in the thymic medulla .
a thymic macrophage found in the thymic cortex .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in the mucosa associated lymphoid tissue .
a mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in the mucosa - associated lymphoid tissues of the gut .
a mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue macrophage found in the nasal and bronchial mucosa - associated lymphoid tissues .
a lymph node macrophage found in the subcapsular sinus of lymph nodes that participates in sensing ,  clearance ,  and antigen presentation of lymph - borne particulate antigens .
a lymph node macrophage found in the cortex of lymph nodes ,  in particular in and around the germinal centers ,  and that participates in phagocytosis of apoptotic b cells from the germinal centers .
an immature myeloid leukocyte of heterogeneous phenotype found particularly in cancer and sepsis patients that is capable of suppressing activity of t cells in ex vivo assays .
an elicited macrophage characterized by low production of pro - inflammatory and th1 polarizing cytokines and high expression of arginase - 1 ,  and associated with tissue remodelling .
a type of cell containing lipids in small vacuoles and typically seen in atherolosclerotic lesions ,  as well as other conditions .
a type of foam cell derived from a smooth muscle cell containing lipids in small vacuoles and typically seen in atherolosclerotic lesions ,  as well as other conditions .
an immature t cell located in the thymus .
a pro - t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
an antigen inexperienced cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive and cd62l - positive .
a recently activated cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has differentiated into a memory t cell .
mature t cell not yet exposed to antigen with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd45ra - positive ,  and cd127 - positive .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype rorgamma - t - positive ,  cxcr3 - negative ,  ccr6 - positive ,  and capable of producing il - 17 .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has not experienced activation via antigen contact and has the phenotype cd45ra - positive ,  ccr7 - positive and cd127 - positive .
cd4 - positive alpha - beta t cell with regulatory function that produces il - 10 .
cd4 - positive alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd25 - positive ,  ctla - 4 - positive ,  and foxp3 - positive with regulatory function .
cd4 - positive alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype foxp3 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  cd62l - positive ,  and ctla - 4 positive with regulatory function .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  cd25 - positive ,  and ccr7 - negative .
cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive ,  that secretes cytokines .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has differentiated into a memory t cell .
a mature t cell that differentiated and acquired cytotoxic function with the phenotype perforin - positive and granzyme - b positive .
a differentiated t cell with ability to traffic to peripheral tissues and is capable of mounting a specific immune response .
a effector t cell that provides help in the form of secreted cytokines to other immune cells .
cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
an immature alpha - beta t - cell that express egr2 .
an alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell with the phenotype cd8 - alpha - alpha - positive located in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a mature gamma - delta t cell located in the epidermis that regulates wound healing .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta positive t cell that has the phenotype t - bet - positive ,  eomesodermin - positive ,  cxcr3 - positive ,  ccr6 - negative ,  and is capable of producing interferon - gamma .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta positive t cell expressing gata - 3 and secreting il - 4 .
a cd8 - positive alpha beta - positive t cell with the phenotype foxp3 - positive and having suppressor function .
cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta positive regulatory t cell with the phenotype cd28 - negative and foxp3 - positive .
an alpha - beta t cell expressing nk cell markers that is cd1d restricted and expresses specific v - alpha chains .
an alpha - beta t cell expressing nk call markers that is cd1d restricted and expresses a diverse tcr repertoire .
a type i nk t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - positive .
a type i nk t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - negative and cd8 - negative .
a type i nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interferon - gamma and il - 4 ,  and has the phenotype cd4 - positive ,  cd69 - positive ,  and downregulated nk markers .
a mature nk t cell that secretes interferon - gamma and enhances type 1 immune responses .
a mature nk t cell that predominantly secretes type 2 cytokines such as interleukin - 4 and interleukin - 13 and enhances type 2 immune responses .
a type i nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interferon - gamma and interleukin - 4 ,  and has phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd69 - positive ,  and downregulated nk markers .
a mature nk t cell that secretes interferon - gamma and enhances th1 immune responses .
a mature nk t cell that secretes interleukin - 4 and enhances th2 immune responses .
a type ii nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interferon - gamma and interleukin - 4 ,  and has the phenotype cd69 - positive and downregulated nk markers .
a type ii nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interferon - gamma ,  and has the phenotype cd69 - positive and downregulated nk markers .
a type ii nk t cell that has been recently activated ,  secretes interleukin - 4 ,  and has the phenotype cd69 - positive and downregulated nk markers .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has cytotoxic function .
a cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  alpha - beta intraepithelial t cell that is found in the columnar epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract .
a lymphoid progenitor cell that is found in bone marrow ,  gives rise to b cells ,  t cells ,  natural killer cells and dendritic cells ,  and has the phenotype lin - negative ,  kit - positive ,  sca - 1 - positive ,  flt3 - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd150 negative ,  and glya - negative .
cell committed to natural killer cell lineage that has the phenotype cd122 - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  and cd117 - positive .
nk cell that has the phenotype cd56 - bright ,  cd16 - negative ,  and cd84 - positive with the function to secrete interferon - gamma but is not cytotoxic .
a mature natural killer cell that has the phenotype cd56 - low ,  cd16 - positive and which is capable of cytotoxicity and cytokine production .
an alpha - beta t cell that is found in the lamina propria of mucosal tissues and is restricted by the mr - 1 molecule .
a dendritic cell arising in thymus that has the phenotype cd11c - positive ,  cd11b - negative ,  and cd45ra - negative .
a plasmacytoid dendritic cell developing in the thymus with phenotype cd11c - negative or low ,  cd45ra - positive ,  cd11b - negative ,  and cd123 - positive .
a be cell that facilitates development of t - helper 1  ( th1 )  phenotype in cd4 - positive t cells ,  and secretes high levels of interleukin - 2 ,  tumor necrosis factor - alpha and interferon - gamma .
a be cell that facilitates development of t - helper 2  ( th2 )  phenotype t cells ,  and secretes high levels of interleukin - 2 ,  interleukin - 10 ,  interleukin - 4 ,  and interleukin - 6 .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the commitment to express an immunoglobulin complex .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is devoted to secreting large amounts of immunoglobulin .
a long lived plasma cell that secretes ige .
a class switched memory b cell that expresses ige on the cell surface .
a plasmablast that secretes igd ,  and which occur in a small proportion of b cells in the adult .
a plasmablast that secretes ige .
a short lived plasma cell that secretes ige .
an prebrc - positive large pre - b - ii cell is a large pre - b - ii cell that is pre - b cell receptor - positive ,  composed of surrogate light chain protein  ( sl )  ,  which is composed of vpreb  ,  lambda 5 / 14 .1 ,  in complex with immunoglobulin mu heavy chain  ( ighmu )  on the cell surface .
a pre - bcr - negative large pre - b - ii cell is a large pre - b - ii cell that is pre - b cell receptor - negative ,  composed of surrogate light chain protein  ( sl )  ,  which is composed of vpreb and lambda 5 / 14 .1 ,  in complex with immunoglobulin mu heavy chain  ( ighmu )  ,  on the cell surface ,  and lack a dna rearrangement of immunoglobulin light chain genes .
a small pre - b - ii cell is a pre - b - ii cell that is rag1 - positive ,  rag2 - positive ,  pre - bcr - negative ,  and bcr - negative ,  is not proliferating ,  and carries a dna rearrangement of one or more immunoglobulin light chain genes .
a pre - b - ii cell is a precursor b cell that expresses immunoglobulin mu heavy chain  ( ighmu +  )  ,  and lack expression of cd34 ,  tdt ,  immunoglobulin kappa light chain and immunoglobulin lambda light chain .
a pre - b - i cell is a precursor b cell that expresses cd34 and surrogate immunoglobulin light chain  ( vpreb  ,  lambda 5  ( mouse )  / 14 .1  ( human )  )  on the cell surface ,  and tdt ,  rag1 , and rag2 intracellularly .
a large pre - b - ii cell is a pre - b - ii cell that is proliferating and is rag1 - negative and rag2 - negative .
a transitional stage b cell that migrates from the bone marrow into the peripheral circulation ,  and finally to the spleen .
a transitional stage b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive ,  surface igd - postive ,  cd21 - positive ,  cd23 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd93 - positive and is located in the splenic b follicles .
a transitional stage b cell that expresses surface igm and igd ,  and cd62l .
a follicular b cell that is igd - positive ,  cd23 - negative ,  and cd38 - negative .
a follicular b cell that is igd - positive and cd23 - positive and cd38 - positive .
a germinal center b cell that develops from a bm3 b cell .
a germinal center b cell that founds a germinal center ,  and has the phenotype igd - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  and cd23 - negative .
a germinal center b cell that is rapidly dividing and has the phenotype igd - negative ,  cd38 - positive ,  and cd77 - positive .
a germinal center b cell that has the phenotype cd77 - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and cd38 - positive .
a memory b cell arising in the germinal center that is igd - negative and has undergone somatic mutation of the variable region of the immunoglobulin heavy and light chain genes .
a mature b cell that produces cytokines that can influence cd4 t cell differentiation .
a mature b cell that has the phenotype cd1d - positive and expresses interleukin - 10 .
an unswitched memory b cell is a memory b cell that has the phenotype igm - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd27 - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  igg - negative ,  ige - negative ,  and iga - negative .
an igm memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell with the phenotype igm - positive and igd - negative .
a class switched memory b cell is a memory b cell that has undergone ig class switching and therefore is igm - negative on the cell surface .
a class switched memory b cell that expresses iga .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that lives for years ,  as opposed to months ,  secretes immunoglobulin ,  and has the phenotype weakly cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - negative ,  cd38 - negative ,  strongly cd138 - positive ,  mhc class ii - negative ,  surface immunoglobulin - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and strongly cxcr4 - positive .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that lives for months .
a short lived plasma cell that secretes iga .
a short lived plasma cell that secretes igg .
a short lived plasma cell that secretes igm .
an igg memory b cell is a class switched memory b cell that is class switched and expresses igg on the cell surface .
an activated mature  ( naive or memory )  b cell that is secreting immunoglobulin ,  typified by being cd27 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  cd138 - negative .
a memory b cell with the phenotype igd - negative and cd27 - negative .
a plasmablast that secretes igg .
a plasmablast that secretes igm .
a plasmablast that secretes iga .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that secretes igg .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that secretes igm .
a fully differentiated plasma cell that secretes iga .
a cell of a hematopoietic lineage .
cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a leukocyte that is cd11c - low ,  cd45r - positive ,  gr1 - positive and cd11b - negative .
conventional dendritic cell is a dendritic cell that is cd11c - high .
cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a leukocyte is cd11c - negative ,  cd45ra - positive ,  cd85g - positive ( ilt7 )  ,  cd123 - positive ,  cd303 - positive .
immature cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell that is cd80 - low and cd86 - low .
mature cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell that is cd83 - high and is cd80 - positive ,  cd86 - positive ,  and mhcii - positive .
immature cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is cd80 - negative ,  cd86 - low and mhcii - low .
mature cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is a cd11c - negative plasmacytoid dendritic cell is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
immature cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - negative ,  cd4 - negative cd8_alpha - negative and is cd205 - positive .
cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd4 - positive and is cd205 - negative and cd8_alpha - negative .
cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - negative ,  cd4 - negative and is cd205 - positive and cd8_alpha - positive .
immature cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - negative dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
mature cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - negative cd11b - positive dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
immature cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell is a cd8_alpha - positive cd11b - negative dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
dermal dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd205 - positive and cd8 alpha - negative .
interstitial dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd1a - positive ,  cd206 - positive ,  cd209 - positive ,  and cd36 - positive .
a hematopoietic stem cell that has plasma membrane part kit - positive ,  sca - 1 - positive ,  cd150 - positive and cd34 - negative .
immature dermal dendritic cell is a dermal dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature dermal dendritic cell is a dermal dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
immature interstitial dendritic cell is a interstitial dendritic cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature interstitial dendritic cell is a interstitial dendritic cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
cd1a - positive langerhans cell is a langerhans_cell that is cd1a - positive and cd324 - positive .
cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell is a langerhans cell that is cd205 - high and is cd8_alpha - low .
immature cd1a - positive langerhans cell is a cd1a - positive langerhans cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature cd1a - positive langerhans cell is a cd1a - positive langerhans cell that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
immature cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell is a cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell that is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
mature cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell is a cd8_alpha - low langerhans cell that that is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
a common lymphoid progenitor that is cd10 - positive ,  cd45ra - positive ,  cd34 - positive and cd38 - positive .
cd115 - positive monocyte is a monocyte that is cd115 - positive and cd11b - positive .
a common myeloid progenitor that is kit - positive and cd34 - positive ,  il7ra - negative ,  and is sca1 - low and fcgr2 - low and fcgr3 - low .
cd133 - positive hematopoietic stem cell is a hematopoietic stem cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd90 - positive ,  and cd133 - positive .
a common lymphoid progenitor that is kit - low ,  flt3 - positive ,  il7ralpha - positive ,  and sca1 - low .
a common myeloid progenitor that is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  il3ra - low ,  cd10 - negative ,  cd7 - negative ,  cd45ra - negative ,  and il - 5ralpha - negative .
cd7 - negative lymphoid progenitor cell is a lymphoid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd7 - negative and cd45ra - negative .
cd7 - positive lymphoid progenitor cell is a lymphoid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd7 - positive and is cd45ra - negative .
common dendritic precursor is a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is cd117 - low ,  cd135 - positive ,  cd115 - positive and lacks plasma membrane parts for hematopoietic lineage markers .
granule cell that is part of the cerebellum .
granule cell that is part of the cerebral cortex .
granule cell that is part of the hippocampus .
a cell that is maintained or propagated in a controlled artificial environment for use in an investigation .
a connective tissue cell found in bone .
osteoblast that is terminally differentiated ,  located adjacent to acellular or cellular bone tissue within periosteum ,  and is capable of mineralizing the matrix .
osteoblast that is non - terminally differentiated and located in cellular bone tissue or under the periosteum in acellular bone .
a cd8 - positive alpha - beta - positive t cell with the phenotype cxcr3 - positive and having suppressor function .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that produces il - 22 .
a recently activated cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype hla - dra - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd45ra - positive .
a naive regulatory t cell with the phenotype cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  cd127lo ,  ccr4 - positive ,  and cd45ro - negative .
a memory regulatory t cell with phenotype cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  cd127lo ,  ccr4 - positive ,  and cd45ro - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cell with the additional phenotype ccr4 - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  ccr4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t regulatory cell with the phenotype hla - dra - positive ,  indicating recent activation .
a recently activated cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype hla - dra - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  ccr7 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd45ra - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has the phenotype cxcr3 - negative ,  ccr6 - negative .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has the phenotype cxcr3 - negative ,  ccr6 - negative .
a memory b cell that lacks expression of surface igd .
a monocyte that expresses cd14 and is negative for the lineage markers cd3 ,  cd19 ,  and cd20 .
an intermediate monocyte that is cd14 - positive and with low amounts of cd16 .
a dendritic cell with the phenotype hla - dra - positive .
a myeloid dendritic cell with the phenotype hla - dra - positive .
a plasmacytoid dendritic cell with the phenotype hla - dra - positive ,  cd123 - positive ,  and cd11c - negative .
a progenitor cell committed to myeloid lineage ,  including the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a hematopoietic oligopotent progenitor cell that has the ability to differentiate into limited cell types but lacks lineage cell markers and self renewal capabilities .
a cell found in an organism or derived from an organism exhibiting a phenotype that deviates from the expected phenotype of any native cell type of that organism .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha beta memory t cell with the phenotype cd45ra - positive ,  cd45ro - negative ,  and ccr7 - negative .
an abnormal cell exhibiting dysregulation of cell proliferation or programmed cell death and capable of forming a neoplasm ,  an aggregate of cells in the form of a tumor mass or an excess number of abnormal cells  ( liquid tumor )  within an organism .
a neoplastic cell that is capable of entering a surrounding tissue
a lymphocyte that lacks characteristic t cell ,  b cell ,  myeloid cell ,  and dendritic cell markers ,  that functions as part of the innate immune response to produce cytokines and other effector responses .
a progenitor cell committed to the erythroid lineage .
an innate lymphoid cell that is capable of producing the type 1 cytokine ifn - gamma ,  but not th2 or th17 cell - associated cytokines .
a group 1 innate lymphoid cell that is non - cytotoxic .
an innate lymphoid cell that is capable of producing t - helper 2 - cell associated cytokines upon stimulation .
a fat cell that is beige in color ,  thermogenic ,  and which differentiates in white fat tissue from a myf5 - negative progenitor .
an innate lymphoid cell that constituitively expresses rorgt and is capable of expressing il17a and / or il - 22 .
an innate lymphoid cell in the human with the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd117 - positive ,  and a precusor to nk cells ,  ilc2 cells ,  and ilc3 cells .
an innate lymphoid cell in the human with the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd56 - positive ,  cd117 - positive .thie cell type may include precusors to nk cells and ilc3 cells .
an innate lymphoid cell precursor in the human with the phenotype cd34 - positive ,  cd56 - positive ,  cd117 - positive .thie cell type may include precusors to nk cells and ilc3 cells .
an innate lymphoid cell in the human with the phenotype klrg1 - positive that is a precusor for ilc2 cells .
an innate lymphoid cell in the human with the phenotype nkp46 - positive that is a precusor for nk cells and ilc3 cells .
an ilc1 cell in the human with the phenotype cd56 - negative ,  il - 7ralpha - positive ,  t - bet - positive .
a group 3 innate lymphoid cell in the human with the phenotype il - 7ralpha - positive .
a group 3 innate lymphoid cell in the human with the phenotype il - 7ralpha - positive ,  and nkp44 - positive .
a group 3 innate lymphoid cell in the human with the phenotype il - 7ralpha - positive ,  and nkp44 - negative .
a group 2 innate lymphoid cell in the human with the phenotype cd25 - positive ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd161 - positive ,  and gata - 3 - positive .
an innate lyphoid cell with an immature phenotype .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is cd19 - positive .
a b cell that is cd19 - positive .
a plasmablast that is cd86 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with memory phenotype indicated by being cd45ro and cd127 - positive .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta long - lived t cell with the phenotype cd45ro - positive and cd127 - positive .
an erythroid progenitor cell is kit - positive ,  ly6a - negative ,  cd41 - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd123 - negative .
a granulocyte monocyte progenitor is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  il - 3receptor - alpha - positive and is cd45ra - negative .
a granulocyte monocyte progenitor that is kit - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  fc - gamma receptor ii / ii - positive ,  and is sca - 1 - negative ,  il7ra - negative ,  cxc3r1 - negative ,  and cd90 - negative .
an erythroid progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive and is glya - negative .
a proerythoblast that is cd34 - negative and glya - negative .
a megakaryocyte erythroid progenitor cell is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive and is il3 - receptor alpha - negative and cd45ra - negative .
a megakaryocyte erythroid progenitor cell that is kit - positive and is sca1 - negative ,  cd34 - negative ,  cd90 - negative ,  il7r - alpha - negative and fcgr ii / iii - low .
a lineage marker - negative ,  cd34 - positive ,  il5r - alpha - positive ,  and sca1 - negative eosinophil progenitor cell .
a lineage marker - negative ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  il3r - alpha - positive ,  il5r - alpha - positive ,  and cd45ra - negative eosinophil progenitor cell .
a progenitor cell that can give rise to plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells ,  and to monocytes and macrophages .
a lin - negative ,  mhc - ii - negative ,  cd11c - positive ,  flt3 - positive cell with intermediate expression of sirp - alpha .
a progenitor cell that can give rise to plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells ,  and to monocytes and macrophages .
a proerythoblast that is kit - low ,  lyg76 - positive ,  and cd71 - positive .
a basophilic erythroblast that is glya - positive .
a basophilic erythroblast that is lyg 76 - high and is kit - negative .
a polychromatophilic erythroblast that is lyg 76 - high and is kit - negative .
a polychromatiic erythroblast that is gly - a - positive and cd71 - low .
an orthochromatophilic erythroblast that is ter119 - high ,  cd71 - low ,  and kit - negative .
an erythroblast that is glya - positive and cd71 - negative .
a reticulocyte that is ly76 - high and is kit - negative .
a reticulocyte that is glya - positive .
an enucleate erythrocyte that is glya - positive .
an enucleate erythrocyte that is lyg - 76 - high .
a megakaroycotye progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd41 - positive and cd42 - positive on the cell surface .
a megakaryocyte progenitor cell that is kit - positive ,  cd41 - positive ,  cd9 - positive ,  sca - 1 - negative ,  il7ralpha - negative ,  cd150 - negative ,  and fcgamma receptor ii / iii - low .
a megakaryocyte progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd41 - positive ,  and cd42 - negative .
a megakaryocyte progenitor cell that is cd34 - negative ,  cd41 - positive and cd42 - positive .
a megakaryocyte cell with is cd9 - positive and cd41 - positive .
a cell type that can give rise to basophil and mast cells .
a lineage - negative ,  kit - positive ,  cd45 - positive mast cell progenitor that is fc - epsilon rialpha - low .
a lineage negative ,  sca1 - negative basophil progenitor cell that is fc epsilon rialpha - high .
a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is capable of developing into only one lineage of hematopoietic cells .
a hematopoietic oligopotent progenitor cell that has the ability to differentiate into limited cell types but lacks lineage cell markers and self renewal capabilities .
a hematopoietic stem cell capable of rapid replenishment of myeloerythroid progenitors and limited self renewal capability .
a hematopoietic stem cell with long term self renewal capability .
a hematopoietic progenitor that has restricted self - renewal capability .
a hematopoietic progenitor that has some limited self - renewal capability .
intraepithelial t cells with a memory phenotype of cd2 - positive ,  cd5 - positive ,  and cd44 - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  cxcr5 - positive ,  ccr7 - negative alpha - beta t cell located in follicles of secondary lymph nodes that expresses is bcl6 - high ,  icos - high and pd1 - high ,  and stimulates follicular b cells to undergo class - switching and antibody production .
a cd24 - high ,  cd4 - low ,  cd8 - low ,  cd44 - negative ,  nk1 .1 - negative nk t cell .
a cd24 - low ,  cd44 - negative ,  nk1 .1 - negative nk t cell .
a cd24 - low ,  cd44 - positive ,  dx5 - low ,  nk1 .1 - negative nk t cell .
a cd24 - low ,  cd44 - positive ,  dx5 - high ,  nk1 .1 - negative nk t cell .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell that is cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  cd45ra - negative ,  and cd90 - negative .
a basophil mast progenitor cell that is beta - 7 integrin - high ,  kit - positive fcrgammaii / iii - positive and sca1 - negative .
a pro - b cell that cd45r / b220 - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  hsa - low ,  bp - 1 - negative and ly6c - negative .
a pro - b cell that is cd22 - positive ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive and tdt - positive  ( has tdt activity )  .
a precursor b cell that is cd45ra - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd24 - positive and bp - 1 - negative .
a pre - b cell precursor is cd19 - low ,  cd22 - positive  ,  cd34 - positive ,  cd38 - positive .
a precursor b cell is cd45r - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd24 - positive ,  and bp - positive .
a pre - bcr - positive precursor b cell that is cd24 - high ,  cd25 - positive ,  cd43 - positive ,  cd45r - positive and bp - positive .
a pre - bcr positive b cell that is cd38 - high .
a pre - b cell that is pre - bcr - negative ,  and the kappa -  and lambda -  light immunoglobulin light chain - negative ,  cd43 - low ,  and is bp - 1 - positive ,  cd45r - positive and cd25 - positive .
a small pre - b cell that is cd22 - positive and cd38 - low .
an immature b cell that is igm - positive ,  cd45r - positive ,  cd43 - low ,  cd25 - negative ,  and cd127 - negative .
an immature b cell that is cd38 - negative ,  cd10 - low ,  cd21 - low ,  and cd22 - high .
a mature b cell subset originally defined as having being cd45r - positive ,  igm - positive ,  igd - positive and cd43 - negative .
a classical monocyte that is cd14 - positive ,  cd16 - negative ,  cd64 - positive ,  cd163 - positive .
a resident monocyte that is gr - 1 low ,  cd43 - positive ,  and cx3cr1 - positive .
a conventional thymic dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - positive .
a melanin - containing macrophage that obtains the pigment by phagocytosis of melanosomes .
a t - helper cell that is characterized by secreting interleukin 9 and responding to helminth infections .
a type i pneumocyte is a flattened ,  branched pneumocyte that covers more than 98% of the alveolar surface .
a type ii pneumocyte is a pneumocyte that modulates the fluid surrounding the alveolar epithelium by secreting and recycling surfactants .
a secretory cell found in pancreatic acini that secretes digestive enzymes and mucins .
a neuroendocrine cell found in the epithelium of the lungs and respiratory tract .
an enteroendocrine cell that produces glucagon .
specialized cardiac myocyte that is subendocardially interspersed with the regular cardiac muscle cell .
mostly cylindrical ,  resemble type 1 in their contents and the presence of a kinocilium and stereocilium apically ;  much greater variation in size ,  some almost span the entire thickness of the sensory epithelium ,  while others are smaller than type 1 ;  receive multiple efferent nerve boutons around their bases as well as afferent endings ,  which are small expansions rather than chalices .
bottle - shaped with narrow neck ;  broad ,  rounded basal portion where nucleus is located ;  stereocilia and a single kinocilium is present apically ;  receive nerve bouton at their base from an afferent cup - shaped  ( chalice or calyx )  nerve ending .
columnar cell which populate the epithelium of large intestine and absorb water .
a specialized cardiac myocyte in the sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes .
specialized cardiac myocyte which is in the internodal tract and atrioventricular node .
the myoendocrine cellis a specialized myocyte localized mainly in the right and left atrial appendages ,  and also scattered within other areas of the atria and along the conductive system in the ventricular septum .
infrequent type of columnar epithelial cell .
an epithelial cell derived from endoderm .
an epithelial cell derived from ectoderm .
epithelial cell derived from mesoderm or mesenchyme .
epithelial cell found in the ducts of the pancreas .
a cubodial epithelial cell that is continuous with the lining of intercalated ducts that drain the acinus .
this cell resembles a glia cell ,  express the glial marker s100 and act as a supporting cell to type i cell .
a chromaffin cell of the adrenal medulla that produces epinephrine .
a chromaffin cell of the adrenal medulla that produces norepinephrine .
a boettcher cell is a polyhedral cells on the basilar membrane of the cochlea ,  and is located beneath claudius cells .
specialized elongated ventricular ependymal cell that has processes that extend to the outer ,  or pial ,  surface of the cns .
a cardiac myocyte that is an excitable cells in the myocardium ,  specifically in the conducting system of heart .
a leukocyte that lacks granules .
this is a cell found in the gastrointestinal tract of mammals and serves as a pacemaker that triggers gut contraction .
a group 2 innate lymphoid cell in the mouse capable of secreting il - 13 in response to a helminth infection .
one of two small cells formed by the first and second meiotic division of oocytes .
a small cell formed by the first meiotic division of oocytes .
a cell found in the bone marrow .
a small cell formed by the second meiotic division of oocytes .
a cell that makes up the loose connective tissue of the ovary .
a cell in the hilum of the ovary that produces androgens .
a specialised myocyte that lies between the sinoatrial node and the atrioventricular node and is involved in the conduction of electrical signals .
a cell of the adrenal cortex .
a cardiac myocyte that is connected to other cardiac myocytes by transverse intercalated discs  ( go:0014704 )  at a regular interval .
a small ,  polyhedral ,  cell found in rounded groups or curved columns with deeply staining nuclei ,  scanty basophilic cytoplasm and a few lipid droplets .
a regular cardiac myocyte of the interventricular region of the heart .
a cd38 - positive naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a cd38 - negative naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
an igg - positive double negative memory b cell is a double negative memory b cell with the phenotype igg - positive ,  igd - negative ,  and cd27 - negative .
an igg - negative double negative memory b cell is a double negative memory b cell with the phenotype igg - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and cd27 - negative .
a cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a class switched memory b cell that expresses igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - positive and igg - positive .
an igd - positive cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - positive class switched memory b cell that has class switched and expresses igd on the cell surface with the phenotype igd - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
an igd - negative cd38 - positive igg memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - positive that has class switched and lacks expression of igd on the cell surface with the phenotype igd - negative ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
a cd38 - negative igg memory b cell is a igg - positive class switched memory b cell that has class switched and expresses igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  igd - negative ,  and igg - positive .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive naive b cell is a cd38 - positive naive b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive naive b cell is a cd38 - positive naive b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  and cd27 - negative ,  that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
an cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - negative unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - negative ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is an unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell is a cd38 - positive unswitched memory b cell that has the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface .
a cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - negative and igg - negative .
a cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is an igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd38 - positive and igg - negative .
an cd24 - positive cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - negative igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd24 - positive ,  cd38 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a cd24 - negative cd38 - negative igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - negative igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype cd24 - negative ,  cd38 - negative ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - positive cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype b220 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - negative .
a b220 - low cd38 - positive igg - negative memory b cell is a cd38 - positive igg - negative class switched memory b cell that lacks igg on the cell surface with the phenotype b220 - low ,  cd38 - positive ,  and igg - positive .
a circulating gamma - delta t cell that is cd27 - positive and capable of producing ifn - gamma .
a circulating gamma - delta t cell that expresses rorgamma ( t )  ,  is cd27 - negative and is capable of il - 17 secretion .
a cd25 - positive ,  cd27 - positive immature gamma - delta t cell found in the thymus that has an immature phenotype  ( i .e .
a t cell with a receptor of limited diversity that is capable of immediate effector functions upon stimulation .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has the phenotype cxcr3 - negative ,  ccr6 - positive ,  ccr5 - high ,  cd45ra - negative ,  and capable of producing il - 17 and some ifng .
regular cardiac myocyte of a cardiac atrium .
a cardiac myocyte of the interatrial region of the heart .
regular cardiac myocyte of a cardiac ventricle .
a stomal cell of the ovary
a stromal cell of the ovarian cortex .
a stromal cell of the ovarian medulla .
epidermal cells that do not contain keratin .
a cell in the zona fasciculata that produce glucocorticoids ,  e .g cortisol .
a cell in the zona reticularis that produce sex hormones .
a endothelial cell of a lymphatic vessel .
an endothelial cell of the vascular tree ,  which includes blood vessels and lymphatic vessels .
a sebum secreting cell of the skin that secretes sebum into the hair follicles .
a parathyroid chief cell that is actively secreting hormone .
a cell pyramidal in shape ,  with their broad ends facing and forming the greater extent of the lining of the main lumen .
a chief cell that is smaller than light chief cells and has a smaller and darker nucleus and a finely granular cytoplasm with many granules .
an endothelial cell found in capillaries .
a ciliated columnar cell found in the trachea and bronchus .
a sweat producing cell of eccrine sweat glands .
a chief cell of parathyroid glands that does not stain with hematoxylin or eosin .
a cell found within the dental pulp .
an epithelial cell of the uterus .
epithelioid macrophage is an activated macrophage that resembles an epithelial cell with finely granular ,  pale eosinophilic cytoplasm and central ,  ovoid nucleus  ( oval or elongate )  .
a promyelocyte that is considerably smaller ,  with more condensed chromatin ,  and nucleoli are no longer conspicuous .
a columnar cell of the cervix uteri .
the dead keratin - filled squamous cell of the stratum corneum .
a promyelocyte with a nucleus that is indented and contains more marginated heterochromatin compared to its precursor cell  ( myeloblast )  ;  cytoplasm is deeply basophilic and contains numerous mitochondria and meandering cysternae of endoplasmic reticulum ;  largest of the granulocyte lineages .
a crenated erythrocyte with 30 +  crenations ,  bumps or spurs that are the result of damage due to age or disease .
a cell type that makes up the highly vascular membrane lining the marrow cavity of long bones .
epithelial cell found on the external side of the tympanic membrane
epithelial cells derived from general body ectoderm and ectoderm placodes .
a cell type found in the basal epithelial layer on the external side of the tympanic membrane .
a cell type found on the superficial layer of the external side of the tympanic membrane .
an extremely flattened cell type found on the inner side of the tympanic membrane .
a rod - shpaed cell that forms a single row adjacent to and supporting the inner hair cells .
a rod - shaped cell found in 3 or 4 rows that lie adjacent to and support the outer hair cells .
a supporting cell that is attached to the basement membrane and forms rows that support the hair cells .
an epithelial cell that remains from the disintegration of the epithelial root sheath involved in the development of teeth .
a specialized cell involved in sensory perception of smell .
a border cell is a slender columnar cell on the medial portion of the basilar membrane .
an epithelial cell located on the basal lamina of the olfactory epithelium .
a keratinized cell located in the hard palate or gingiva .
a rounded or elliptical epithelial cell ,  with pale - staining open face nucleus and pale cytoplasm rich in free ribosomes and clusters of centrioles ;  form a distinct basal zone spaced slightly from the basal surface of the epithelium .
a long ,  spindle - shaped supporting cells arranged in parallel rows that secretes components of the tectorial membrane and potassium ions into the endolymph .
a cell that is a specialized type of pericyte providing structural support for the capillary loops of kidney .
a cell within the follicle of an ovary .
a cell within the primary follicle of the ovary .
a cell of a secondary follicile within the ovary .
a supporting cell of the anterior pituitary gland involved in trophic and catabolic processes ;  expresses a broad spectrum of cytokeratins indicative of their epithelial nature .
an epithelial cell found in the lining of the stomach .
an epithelial cell within one of the pits in the embryonic gastric mucosa from which the gastric glands develop  .
a mucous cell in the epithelium of the stomach .
a neck cell that secretes mucus within the stomach .
a simple columnar cell that populates the entire luminal surface including the gastric pits .
a stomach epithelial cell that is olumnar in form with a few short apical microvilli ;  relatively undifferentiated mitotic cell from which other types of gland are derived ;  few in number ,  situated in the isthmus region of the gland and base of the gastric pit .
a flat or angular epithelial cell with condensed nuclei and darkly staining cytoplasm containing numerous intermediate filaments inserted into desmosomes contacting surrounding supporting cells ;  lie in contact with the basal lamina of olfactory epithelium .
a basally situated ,  mitotically active ,  columnar - shaped keratinocyte attached to the basement membrane .
an endothelial cell found in the glomerulus of the kidney .
a keratinocyte of the epidermis that is characterized by containing granules of keratohyalin and lamellar granules .
a flat keratinocyte immediately below the cornified layer .
a cell involved in the formation of a granulocyte .
a eosinophil precursor in the granulocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between a myelocyte and a band form cell .
a cell type that is the first of the maturation stages of the granulocytic leukocytes normally found in the bone marrow .
a cell involved in the formation of a monocyte  ( monopoiesis )  .
a stem cell that can give rise to the cells of the liver .
a transient hepatic stem cell observed after liver injury with a high nuclear to cytoplasm ratio that can differentiate into mature hepatocytes and bile duct cells .
a parathyroid chief cell that is not actively secreting hormone .
a large epithelial cell with an extremely acidophilic and granular cytoplasm ,  containing vast numbers of mitochondria ;  such cells may undergo neoplastic transformation .
an oncocyte located in the parathyroid gland .
an oncocyte located in the thyroid .
a renal intercalated cell that secretes base and reabsorbs acid in the coritcal collecting duct to mantain acid / base balance .
an epithelial cell of the tracheobronchial tree .
brush cell found in the epithelial layer of the colon .
a cell type found in the gastrointestinal and respiratory tracts that is characterized by the presence of a tuft of blunt ,  squat microvilli  ( 120 - 140 per cell )  .
a brush cell found in the epithelium of lobular bronchiole .
a brush cell of the epithelium in the terminal bronchiole .
brush cell of the epithelium in the trachea .
a brush cell found in the epithelium of bronchus .
an epithelial cell present in the trachea and bronchi ;  columnar in shape ;  generally lack cilia ;  immature forms of ciliated or secretory cells which have been formed from stem cells .
a slow muscle cell that contains high levels of myoglobin and oxygen storing proteins giving the cell a red appearance .
a slow muscle cell that has large amounts of myoglobin ,  stores energy as triglycerides ,  generates atp by the oxidative method and is resistant to fatigue .
a fast muscle fiber cell that stores energy in the form of glycogen and creatine phosphate .
a muscle cell with low content of myoglobin and other oxygen storing proteins .
a type ii muscle cell that contains large amounts of myoglobin ,  has many mitochondria and very many blood capillaries .
a type ii muscle cell that contains a low content of myoglobin ,  relatively few mitochondria ,  relatively few blood capillaries and large amounts of glycogen .
an intermediate muscle cell that has characteristics of both fast and slow muscle cells .
a trophoblast that leaves the placenta and invades the endometrium and myometrium .
a double negative thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain that has as part a vgamma3 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a trophoblast found at the junction of the placenta .
a cell located between the pinealocytes .
a squamous cell that has keratin in the esophagus .
a cell comprising the transparent ,  biconvex body separating the posterior chamber and vitreous body ,  and constituting part of the refracting mechanism of the mammalian eye .
a cell of the transparent layer of simple cuboidal epithelium over the anterior surface of the lens ;  transform into lens fiber ( s )  .
a cell of the cuboidal epithelium that covers the lens .
a lens fiber cell that develops from primary lens fiber ;  located towards the center of lens ;  cell organelles are normally degraded or in the process of being degraded .
a secondary lens fiber cell that lacks a nucleus .
a secondary fiber cell that contains a nucleus .
an elongating cell that rapidly obliterates the lumen of the lens vesicle .
a chief cell that is bigger than dark chief cells and has a larger and lighter nucleus and a cytoplasm with few granules .
an epithelial cell of the prostate .
an epithelial cell of prostatic duct .
an epithelial cell of the prostatic acinus .
a cell of the basal layer of the epithelium in the prostatic acinus .
a cell of the luminal layer of the epithelium in the prostatic acinus .
a cell that constitutes the basal layer of epithelium in the prostatic duct .
a cell that constitutes the luminal layer of epithelium of prostatic duct .
a primordial germ cell that is destined to become a male germ cell .
a primordial cell from which an oocyte  ( ovum )  ultimately is developed .
a fibroblast in the bone marrow .
a fibroblasts found in interstitial spaces in the pulmonary tract .
a cell containing at least one nucleus .
a circular smooth muscle cell of the iris ,  innervated by the ciliary nerves  ( parasympathetic )  ,  and acting to contract the pupil .
a nonstratified squamous cell located in the ectocervix .
obsolete: a lymphocyte that lacks t or b cell surface markers .
a hematopoeitic stem cell found in the blood .
a tissue macrophage that is in the pleural space .
a pluripotent stem cell has the ability to form cells from all three germ layers  ( ectoderm ,  mesoderm ,  and endoderm )  .
a stem cell that can differentiate into a cardiac myocyte .
a cell that is found in a zone occupying the bottom region of the crypt ;  provide the source of most of the cell types of the intestinal epithelium ;  proliferate by mitotic division ;  differentiates into columnar or goblet cells .
an epithelial cell of the musculomembranous digestive tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
an epithelial cell of the esophagus .
an epithelial cell of the large intestine .
an epithelial cell of the small intestine .
connective tissue cells of the endometrium ,  these cells are fibroblastic in appearance .
a supportive cell that has characteristics of glial cell .
an epithelial cell of thyroid gland .
a cell type that varies from squamous to columnar ,  depending on their activity with microvillus directed luminally .
the stem cell from which glial precursor cell arises from .
an epithelial cell of the parathyroid gland .
an endothelial cell found in the mucosa associated with the facial skeleton .
an endothelial cell that lines any of the venous cavities through which blood passes in various glands and organs such as the spleen and liver .
one of three types of epithelial cells that populate the parathyroid gland ;  cytological characteristics intermediate between those of the chief cell and of the oxyphil cell .
a type of enteroendocrine cell found in the stomach that secretes glucagon .
a d cell located in the colon .
a type d cell of the small intestine .
a type d cell found in the stomach .
an enteroendocrine cell that stores and secretes ghrelin .
an endocrine cell that secretes vasoactive intestinal peptide .
a type ec enteroendocrine cell in the duodenum and jejunum that stores and secretes motilin and 5 - hydroxytryptamine .
a type ec enteredocrine cell in the intestines that stores and secretes substance p and 5 - hydroxytryptamine .
a cell that secretes motilin ,  a gastric hormone that at low ph inhibits gastric motor activity ,  whereas at high ph has a stimulating effect .
a type ec enteroendocrine cell type that is numerous in the fundus of the stomach ;  stores 5 - hydroxytryptamine and histamine .
a cell type that secretes histamine .
a pp cell located in the islets of the pancreas .
obsolete: a pp cell located in the pancreatic acinus .
an enteroendocrine cell commonest in the duodenum and jejunum ,  rare in ileum ,  that secretes cholecystokinin .
an enteroendocrine cell of duodenum and jejunum that produces gastric inhibitory peptide .
a enteroendocrine cell type that is numerous in ileum ,  present in jejunum and large intestine ,  few in duodenum .
an enteroendorcine cell found in the ileum and jejunum that produces neurotensin .
scattered in duodenojejunal mucosa ,  this enteroendocrine cell secretes secretin and serotonin .
an enteroendocrine cell which produces a gastrin -  and cholecystokinin - like peptide .
an epithelial cell of the mucosa associated with facial skeleton .
an enteroendorcine cell found in the fundus and pylorus ,  this cell type has dense round secretory granules that contain ghrelin .
a taste receptor cell that is characterized by morphologically identifiable synaptic contacts with the gustatory nerve fibers and expression of the synaptic membrane protein - 25  ( snap - 25 )  and ncam .
a taste receptor cell that has a short microvilli ,  a projecting apical region ,  a large rounded nucleus ,  and expresses taste chemoreceptors thus making them the transducing cell for taste qualities .
a rounded ,  mitotically active stem cell which is the source of new cells of the taste bud ;  located basally .
a cell type that forms the boundary with the surrounding epithelium .
a densely staining taste receptor cell that contains many dense vacuoles in their apical regions which project into the apical space and bear microvilli .
a sperm bearing a y chromosome .
a sperm bearing an x chromosome .
a round or oval neuroepithelial cell that contacts other type i cells or capillaries .
an epithelial cell of the thymus .
an epithelial cell with a well defined golgi apparatus that makes up the continuous layer of cells bordering the thymic tissue beneath the capsule .
a thymic epithelial cell that has an eccentric ,  round ,  or irregularly shaped hetero or euchromatic nucleus .
an epithelial cell with high nuclear and cytoplasmic electron - density .
a thymic epithelial cell with moderate nuclear and cytoplasmic electron - density .
a thymic epithelial cell type with low nuclear and cytoplasmic electrondensity ;  has a round ,  euchromatic nucleus and occurs in small groups at the corticomedullary junction or scattered singly in the medulla .
an epithelial cell scattered in the cortex ,  predominant in the outer cortex with a large pale nucleus and a prominent nucleolus .
a small medullary thymic epithelial cell with a spindle shape ,  often arranged in groups and connected to each other by large desmosomes and interdigitations .
a synovial cell type that resembles fibroblasts ,  has abundant granular endoplasmic reticulum but contains fewer vacuoles and vesicles .
a synovial cell that is macrophage - like ,  characterized by surface ruffles or lamellipodia ,  plasma membrane invaginations and associated micropinocytotic vesicles ,  golgi apparatus and little granular endoplasmic reticulum .
a ciliated epithelial cell of the retina ,  this cell type uptakes sodium chloride and passes it to non - pigmented ciliary epithelial cells .
a multi - ciliated cell of the retina that lacks visual pigment and contributes to aqueous humor by secreting chloride ions .
an epithelial cell of the distal convoluted tubule of the kidney that helps regulate systemic levels of potassium ,  sodium ,  calcium ,  and ph .
an epithelial cell of the proximal tubule of the kidney .
a brush border epithelial cell located in the proximal tubule of the kidney that detects fluid flow .
an epithelial cell of a skin gland .
a basophil chromphil cell of the anterior pitiutary gland that produce adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  melanocyte - stimulating hormone and lipotropin .
an acidophil cell of the anterior pitiuatry gland that produces both prolactin and growth hormone .
an acidophilic cell of the anterior pituitary that produces prolactin .
an acidophilic cell of the anterior pituitary that produces growth hormone ,  somatotropin .
an ecto - epithelial cell of the prostate gland that secretes hormones .
an auditory epithelial support cell located in the vestibular epithelium that has many hallmarks of glial cells .
an epithelial supporting cell located in the cochlea .
a supporting cell of the vestibular epithelium .
an external limiting cell found in the vestibular epithelium .
a mesothelial cell capable of circulating in the blood by first losing its squamous character .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
a cell of the embryo .
a stem cell of embryonic origin .
a cell of afetus which is suspended in the amniotic fluid .
a myoepithelial cell that surrounds milk - secreting luminal epithelial cells .
the milk - producing cell of the alveolar unit that emerges during pregnancy .
a mammary epithelial cell that occurs in the lumen of the ductal and alveoli structure in the breast .
an epithelial cell of the mammary gland .
an epithelial cell of the bronchus .
an epithelial cell type that lacks the columnar shape typical for other respiratory epithelial cells .
an undifferentiated columnar cell of the bronchus epithelium
a ciliated cell of the bronchus .
a fat cell derived from a neural crest cell .
an undifferentiated fibroblast that can be stimulated to form a fat cell .
a preadipocyte that is capable of differentiating into a brown adipocyte .
an endothelial cell that lines the oral cavitiy including the mucosa of the gums ,  the palate ,  the lip ,  and the cheek .
a stem cell located in the bulge of the hair follicle that can give rise to regenerate the new follicle with each hair cycle and to reepithelialize the epidermis during wound repair .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature ,  has the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd56 - positive ,  cd117 - positive ,  cd122 - positive , and cd161 - positive .
a prostate epithelial cell that is cd133 - positive ,  cd44 - positive ,  integrin a2beta3 - high .
the exocrine cell of the prostate ,  this epithelial cell secretes prostatic acid phosphotase and psa ,  and is dependent on androgen hormones for survival .
an undifferentiated cell of the prostate epithelium that lacks secretory activity .
a circulating endothelial cell of the phenotype cd146 - positive ,  cd105 - positive ,  cd45 - negative .
a natural killer cell subset that is found in the decidual of the uterus and is cd56 - high ,  galectin - 1 - positive and cd16 - negative .
a natural killer cell that is developmentally immature ,  has the phenotype cd34 - negative ,  cd56 - negative ,  cd117 - positive ,  cd122 - positive , and cd161 - positive .
an immature natural killer cell that is nk1 .1 - positive ,  dx5 - positive ,  ly49 - positive ,  cd27 - low and cd11b - low .
an immature natural killer cell that is nk1 .1 - positive and dx - 5 negative .
a mature natural killer cell that is cd27 - high and cd11b - high .
a cd27 - low ,  cd11b - high natural killer cell that has a higher threshold of activation due to higher expression of inhibitory receptors .
a natural killer cell that is cd27 - high and cd11b - low .
an endothelial cell that lines the intracavitary lumen of the heart ,  separating the circulating blood from the underlying myocardium .
a multi - fate stem cell that is able to differentiate into the pancreas alpha ,  beta and delta endocrine cells .
a hematopoietic stem cell that exists during embryogenesis .
a hematopoietic stem cell that resides in the fetal liver .
a hematopoietic stem found in the yolk sac .
a large nucleated basophilic erythrocyte found in mammalian embryos .
a primitive erythrocyte that has undergone enucleation .
a fetal liver derived enucleated erythrocyte .
derived from the greek word pyren  ( the pit of a stone fruit )  ,  this is a transient nucleated cell type that results from exclusion of the nucleus from the primitive erythrocyte .
a hematopoietic stem cell of the placenta .
a hematopoietic stem cell from the aorta - gonad - mesonephros region of the developing embryo .
a progenitor cell that is capable of forming colonies of primitive erythrocytes in the blood island of the yolk sac .
a cell located in the outermost proliferative zone of the external germinal layer that can differentiate into astroglial cells and granule cells .
a keratocyte is a specialized fibroblastresiding in the cornea stroma that has a flattened ,  dendritic cell located between the lamellae with a large flattened nucleus and lengthy processes which communicate with neighboring cells .
an epithelial cell of the cortical portion of the thymus .
an epithelial cell of the medullary thymus .
a smooth muscle cell of the myometrium that enlarges and stretches during pregnancy ,  and contracts in response to oxytocin .
a cell that lines the trabecular meshwork ,  which is an area of tissue in the eye located around the base of the cornea ,  near the ciliary body ,  and is responsible for draining the aqueous humor from the eye via the anterior chamber  ( the chamber on the front of the eye covered by the cornea )  .
an endo - epithelial cell of the respiratory tract .
a differentiated form of a fungus produced during or as a result of an asexual or sexual reproductive process ;  usually a cell with a thick cell wall that stores and protects one or more nuclei .
a simple columnar epithelial cell that secretes mucin .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a transversely striated ,  synctial muscle cell ,  formed by the fusion of myoblasts .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes growth hormone releasing hormone .
a hair cell of the ear that contains the organs of balance and hearing .
a giioblast cell that develops from a migratory neural crest cell .
a glial cell that ensheaths multiple small diameter axons in the peripheral nervous system .
a glial cell that develops from a schwann cell precursor .
a double negative thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain containing a vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a neurecto - epithelial cell found in the arachnoid villi of dura mater .
an asexual spore formed by oomycetes ;  formed upon fertilization of an oosphere .
a conidium that has only one nucleus .
a conidium that has more than one nucleus .
a uninucleate spore formed on specialized cells or projections ,  sterigma ,  of a conidiophore head .
a macroconidium that has only one nucleus .
an oblong or round asexual spore formed from conidial chains .
a macroconidium that has more than one nucleus .
cylindrical spore formed by development and compartmentation of hyphae ;  the hyphae are often supporting blastoconidiophores .
an arthroconidium that has more than one nucleus .
an arthroconidium that has only one nucleus .
a blastoconidium that has only one nucleus .
a blastoconidium that has more than one nucleus .
obsolete .use po:0025017 from plant ontology instead .
a monocyte that has characteristics of both patrolling and inflammatory monocytes .
a myeloid dendritic cell found in the blood ,  lymph nodes ,  tonsil ,  bone marrow ,  and spleen that is cd141 - positive  ( bdca - 3 )  ,  xcr1 - positive ,  and clec9a - positive .
a resident monocyte that is gr - 1 high ,  cd43 - negative ,  cx3cr1 - negative ,  cd115 - positive ,  and b220 - negative .
a patrolling monocyte that is cd14 - low and cd16 - positive .
a cd14 - positive monocyte that is also cd16 - positive and ccr2 - negative .
an intermediate monocyte that is gr1 - positive ,  cd43 - positive .
a myeloid dendritic cell found in the blood that is cd1c - positive .
a precursor b cell that is aa4 - positive ,  igm - negative ,  cd19 - positive ,  cd43 - positive and hsa - positive .
a thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain that has as part a vgamma3 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a resting mature b cell within the peyer's patch that is cd19 - positive ,  b220 - positive ,  igm - positive ,  aa4 - negative ,  cd23 - positive ,  cd43 - negative ,  and cd5 - negative .
a thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain containing vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a thymocyte found in the fetal thymus .
a post - natal thymocyte expressing components of the gamma - delta t cell receptor .
a double negative post - natal thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain containing a vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain containing vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a double negative post - natal thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain that does not contain a vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a thymocyte that has a t cell receptor consisting of a gamma chain that does not contain the vgamma2 segment ,  and a delta chain .
a cell that is found in the periacinar space of the exocrine pancreas and in perivascular and periductal regions of the pancreas ,  and has long cytoplasmic processes that encircle the base of the acinus .
a gamma - delta receptor that expresses vgamma1 .1 but does not express vdelta6 .3 chains in the t - cell receptor .
a gamma - delta receptor that expresses vgamma1 .1 - vdelta6 .3 chains in the t - cell receptor .
a vgamma1 .1 - positive ,  vdelta6 .3 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - negative .
a vgamma1 .1 - positive ,  vdelta6 .3 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive .
a vgamma1 .1 - positive ,  vdelta6 .3 - positive thymocyte that is cd24 - positive .
a vgamma1 .1 - positive ,  vdelta6 .3 - positive thymocyte that is cd24 - negative .
an immature or mature cell of the first erythroid lineage to arise during embryonic development .
a pluripotent cell in the yolk sac that can give rise to mesenchymal cells including erythrocytes and endothelial cells .
a t cell that expresses a t cell receptor complex and has completed t cell selection .
a t cell that has not completed t cell selection .
a reticulocyte that retains the nucleus and other organelles .
a reticulocyte lacking a nucleus and showing a basophilic reticulum under vital staining due to the presence of ribosomes .
a dn2 thymocyte that is kit - hi .
a dn2 thymocyte that is kit - low .
a pro - t cell that is lin - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  cd44 - positive and kit - positive .
a mature natural killer cell that is cd11b - positive and cd27 - positive .
a double - positive ,  alpha - beta thymocyte that is small and not proliferating .
a double - positive thymocyte that is large  ( i .e .
a double - positive thymocyte that is cd69 - positive and has begun positive selection .
a double - positive thymocyte that is undergoing positive selection ,  has high expression of the alpha - beta t cell receptor ,  is cd69 - positive ,  and is in the process of down regulating the cd4 co - receptor .
a double - positive thymocyte that is undergoing positive selection ,  has high expression of the alpha - beta t cell receptor ,  is cd69 - positive ,  and is in the process of down regulating the cd8 co - receptor .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive and expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative thymocyte that expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor and is cd69 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive and expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative thymocyte that expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor and is cd69 - positive .
a mature cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative alpha - beta t cell found in the thymus that is cd24 - low and has high expression of the t cell receptor .
a mature cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative alpha - beta t cell found in the thymus that is cd24 - low and has high expression of the t cell receptor .
a mature nk cell that is nk1 .1 - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is nkga2 - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49d - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is cd94 - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is cd94 - negative and ly49cl - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49cl - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49h - positive .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49d - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49cl - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is cd94 - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is ly49h - negative .
a nk1 .1 - positive t cell that is cd94 - positive and ly49cl - positive .
a specialized hair cell that has an elongated kinocilium upon which an otolith accretes .
a multi - fate stem cell that is the source of cells for growth of the mammary gland during puberty and gestation .
the cell type from which oligodendrocytes develop .
cd4 - negative ,  cd8_alpha - negative ,  cd11b - positive dendritic cell is a conventional dendritic cell that is cd11b - positive ,  cd4 - negative ,  cd8_alpha - negative and is cd205 - positive .
a cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - negative and cd4 - positive .
a cd11c - low plasmacytoid dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - positive and cd4 - positive .
a langerhans cell that is in the epidermis and is cd45 - positive ,  mhcii - positive ,  and cd11b - positive .
a dermal dendritic cell that is langerin - positive and cd103 - positive .
a dermal dendritic cell that is langerin - negative ,  cd103 - negative ,  and cd11b - positive .
a conventional thymic dendritic cell that is cd8alpha - negative .
a conventional dendritic cell that is cd103 - positive .
a f4 / 80 - negative dendritic cell located in adipose tissue .
an adipose dendritic cell that is sirpa - positive .
an adipose dendritic cell that is sirpa - negative .
a conventional dendritic cell that expresses cd11b  ( itgam )  .
a cd11b - positive dendritic cell located in the serosal portion of the small intestine epithelium .
a myeloid suppressor cell that is gr1 - high and cd11c - negative .
a myeloid suppressor cell that is gr1 - low and cd11c - positive .
gr1 - high monocyte that lacks mhc - ii receptor complex .
gr1 - high monocyte that has a mhc - ii receptor complex .
gr1 - low non - classical monocyte that lacks expression of a mhc - ii complex .
gr1 - low non - classical monocyte that has low to intermediate expression of the mhc - ii complex .
gr1 - low non - classical monocyte that has high surface expression of a mhc - ii complex .
a mhc - ii - negative classical monocyte located in lymphoid tissue that is f4 / 80 - positive ,  cd11c - negative ,  and cd11b - high .
a mhc - ii - negative classical monocyte located in lymphoid tissue that is f4 / 80 - positive ,  cd11c - intermediate ,  and cd11b - high .
a tissue - resident macrophage located in the bone marrow .
a macrophage located in adipose tissue that is cd45 - positive ,  cd11c - positive ,  and sirpa - positive .
an adipose macrophage that does not express f4 / 80but is mhc - ii - positive .
an adipose macrophage that does not express mhc - ii but is f4 / 80 - positive .
a goblet cell located in the nasal epithelium .
the flattened smooth myoepithelial cells of mesodermal origin that lie just outside the basal lamina of the seminiferous tubule .
a melanocyte that produces pigment in the dermis .
a melanocyte that produces pigment within the hair follicle .
a melanocyte that produces pigment in the epithelium .
a melanocyte of the retina .
a melanocyte located between the epithelial marginal cell layer and the mesodermal basal cell layer within the intrastrial space ;  the predominant cellular component of the electrogenic machinery that generates an endocochlear potential  ( 80 - 100 mv )   .
a neuronal receptor that respond to mechanical pressure or distortion in the skin .
a trophoblast cell that has a large volume of cytoplasm ,  is polyploid and is usually mononuclear but is also occasionally multi - nucleate .
a thymocyte that lacks expression of cd4 and cd8 .
a supporting cell of the organ of corti .
a specialized cell involved in auditory sensory perception .
a polarized columnar cell that covesr the lateral surface of the cochlear duct ,  secretes potassium ions and forms a continuous sheet in contact with the endolymph ;  marginal cells form extensive interdigitations with the basal and intermediate cells in the normal adult stria .
a polarized cell that is juxtaposed to fibrocytes in the underlying spiral ligament .
a cell located in the heart ,  including both muscle and non muscle cells .
a fetal and neonatal heart cell that undergoes proliferation and is not yet terminally differentiated into a binucleate or a multinucleate cardiac myocyte .
a t cell that is located in the intestinal epithelium and is capable of a mucosal immune response .
a trophoblast giant cell derived from the mural trophectoderm .
a trophoblast giant cell that is derived from ectoplacental cone and ,  later in gestation ,  the spongiotrophoblast .
a trophoblast cell that arises in the junctional zone  ( basal plate )  of the placenta .
a p / d1 enteroendocrine cell that is grimelius positive and stores bombesin - like polypeptide .
a p / d1 enteroendocrine cell that is argyrophilic and stores vasoactive intestinal polypeptide .
an enteroendocrine cell of the small intestine that secretes motilin .
a cell of the adventitial layer of ductal structures such as the uterer ,  defent duct ,  biliary duct ,  etc
a smooth muscle cell of the intestine .
a cd11b - positive dendritic cell that is cd11b - high ,  cd45 - positive ,  mhc - ii - positive and cd103 - negative .
a cd11b - positive dendritic cell that is cd11b - low ,  cd45 - positive ,  mhc - ii - high and cd103 - positive that is located in the liver .
a dermal dendritic cell isolated from skin draining lymph nodes that is langerin - positive ,  mhc - ii - positive ,  and cd4 - negative and cd8a - negative .
a dermal dendritic cell isolated from skin draining lymph nodes that is langerin - negative ,  mhc - ii - positive ,  and cd4 - negative and cd8a - negative .
a langerin - positive lymph node dendritic cell that is cd103 - positive and cd11b - low .
a langerin - positive lymph node dendritic cell that is cd103 - negative and cd11b - high .
a langerin - negative lymph node dendritic cell that is cd103 - negative and cd11b - low .
a langerin - negative lymph node dendritic cell that is cd103 - negative and cd11b - high .
a cd8alpha alpha positive gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell that expresses a tcr encoded in part by the vgamma5 gene segment .
a cd8alpha alpha positive gamma - delta intraepithelial t cell that does not express a tcr partially encoded by the vgamma5 gene segment .
an interrenal chromaffin cell found in teleosts that contain heterogeneous vesicles with electron - dense granules located asymmetrically within the vesicular membrane .
a chromaffin cell interspersed among the interrenal epithelial layer of the anterior kidney of teloest fish .
an interrenal chromaffin cell found in teleosts that contain small ,  homogeneous electron - lucent granules that are separated from the vesicular membrane by a visible halo .
an epithelial cell of the kidney .
an interrenal epithelial kidney cell is an epithelial cell found in the anterior kidney of teleosts fish .
an insect excretory cell that regulates haemolymph composition by filtration and filtrate endocytosis .
a fat cell that is part of subcutaneous adipose tissue .
a renal filtration cell is a specialized cell of the renal system that filter fluids by charge ,  size or both .
a mesonephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains  \ "feet \ " that interdigitate with the  \ "feet \ " of other glomerular epithelial cells in the mesonephros
a disseminated nephrocyte is a nephrocyte that filters hemolymph and is found at scattered locations in the fat body or other tissues .
a metanephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains  \ "feet \ " that interdigitate with the  \ "feet \ " of other glomerular epithelial cells in the metanephros .
a dermal dendritic cell that is cd1a - negative and cd14 - positive .
an immature cd14 - positive dermal dendritic cell is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
a mature cd14 - positive dermal dendritic cell is cd80 - high ,  cd86 - high ,  mhcii - high and is cd83 - positive .
a dermal dendritic cell that is cd1a - positive and cd14 - negative .
an immature cd1a - positive dermal dendritic cell is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
a mature cd1a - positive dermal dendritic cell is cd80 - high ,  cd83 - positive ,  cd86 - high ,  and mhcii - high .
a myeloid dendritic cell found in the blood that is cd16 - positive .
an immature cd16 - positive myeloid dendritic cell is cd80 - low ,  cd86 - low ,  and mhcii - low .
a mature cd16 - positive myeloid dendritic cell is cd80 - high ,  cd83 - positive ,  cd86 - high ,  and mhcii - high .
an epithelial cell of the cervix .
an epithelial cell that is part of the amnion .
a mesenchymal stem cell of the amnion membrane .
an epithelial cell of the intrahepatic portion of the bile duct .
a smooth muscle cell of the aorta .
a mesenchymal stem cell that is part of the bone marrow .
a mesenchymal stem cell of the chorionic membrane .
an endothelial cell that is part of the vein .
an arterial endothelial cell that is part of the aorta endothelium .
an endothelial cell that is part of the thoracic endothelium .
an endothelial progenitor cell that participates in angiogenesis during development .
a fibroblast of the aortic adventitia .
a fibroblast that is part of the heart .
a fibroblast that is part of the choroid plexus .
a fibroblast that is part of the conjuctiva of the eye .
a fibroblast that is part of lung .
a fibroblast of the lymphatic system .
a fibroblast that is part of the mammary gland .
a fibroblast of the periodontium .
a fibroblast of pulmonary artery .
a fibroblast that is part of villous mesenchyme .
an animal cell that is part of a hair follicle .
an epithelial cell that resides in the inner root sheath of the hair follicle .
an epithelial cell that is part of the outer root sheath .
an epidermal cell that is part of the germinal matrix .
an epithelial cell of the intestine .
a connective tissue cell of the nucleus pulposus cell of intervertebral disc .
a pigment cell located in the epithelium of the iris .
a melanocyte that appears darker due to content or amount of melanin granules .
a melanocyte that appears lighter in color .
a mesenchymal stem cell that is part of wharton's jelly .
a mesenchymal stem cell of the umbilical cord .
a mesenchymal stem cell of adipose tissue .
a mesenchymal stem cell of liver .
a mesenchymal stem cell of the vertebrae .
a glial cell that ensheathes axons of neuron in the peripheral nervous system and are necessary for their maintainance and function .
a stromal cell of the pancreas .
a pericyte of the central nervous system .
a myofibroblast that lies in the connective tissue of the spinal cord that has a distinctly lamellar arrangement .
an epithelial cell of the placenta .
a preadipocyte found in mesenteric tissue .
a preadipocyte that is part of the breast .
a preadipocyte that is part of visceral tissue .
a preadipocyte that is part of subcutaneous tissue .
an epithelial cell of the kidney cortex .
a blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of the retina .
an epithelial cell of the retinal pigmented epithelium .
a smooth muscle cell of the umbilical vein .
a smooth muscle cell of the bachiocephalic vasculature .
a vascular associated smooth muscle cell of the brain vasculature .
a smooth muscle of the pulmonary artery .
a smooth muscle cell of the coronary artery .
a smooth muscle of the internal thoracic artery .
a smooth muscle cell of the umbilical artery .
a smooth muscle cell of the subclavian artery .
smooth muscle cell of the carotid artery .
a smooth muscle cell of the bladder .
a smooth muscle cell of the esophagus .
a smooth muscle cell of the trachea .
a smooth muscle cell of the uterus .
an astrocyte of the cerebellum .
an astrocyte of the cerebral cortex .
an astrocyte of the spinal cord .
a neural crest cell that gives rise to cells of the enteric nervous system .
a neuron of the hippocampus .
a cns neuron of the cerebral cortex .
a neuron of the raphe nuclei .
a cns neuron of the dorsal spinal cord .
a neuron of the ventral spinal cord .
a neuron of the striatum .
a neuron of the substantia nigra .
a fat cell that is part of omentum tissue .
a fat cell of perirenal fat tissue .
a fat cell that is part of the breast .
an endothelial cell of the umbilical vein .
an adult angioblastic cell released from the bone marrow ,  capable of blood circulation and participation in angiogenesis by differentiating into blood vessel endothelial cells .
a fibroblast of skin .
a stromal cell of the prostate .
an acinar cell of salivary gland .
a paneth cell of the appendix .
a cell of the seminiferous tubule epithelium .
an immature astrocyte .
a mature astrocyte that is capable of producing cytokines .
an immature microglial cell with a ramified morphology .
a mature microglial cell that has changed shape to an amoeboid morphology and is capable of cytokine production and antigen presentation .
a spore formed from bacteria in the order actinomycetales .
a basal cell in the respiratory tract .
an epithelial cell of the anal column .
a nonkeratinized epithelial cell of the anal canal .
a nonkeratinized cell epithleial cell of the inferior part of the anal canal .
an epithelial cell of the anal canal that is keratinized .
a respiratory stem cell found at the junction of the terminal  ( conductive )  bronchiole and the respiratory bronchiole .
an amniotic stem cell is a mesenchymalstem cell extracted from amniotic fluid .
an epithelial fate stem cell derived form the amnion membrane .
an epithelial cell of the esophageal gland proper .
an epithelial cell of the esophageal cardiac gland that occurs both in the proximal and distal esophagus ,  within the lamina propia .
an epithelial cell of stratum corneum of esophageal epithelium that lacks keratin .
an endothelial cell of viscerocranial mucosa that is part of the tympanic region of the viscerocranial mucosa .
an endocranial viscerocranial mucosa cell that is part of viscerocranial mucosa .
an ecto - epithelial cell of the buccal region of the viscerocranial mucosa .
an ecto - epithelial cell of the palatal region of the viscerocranial mucosa .
an ecto - epithelial cell of the nasal region of the viscerocranial mucosa .
an ecto - epithelial cell of the gingival region of the viscerocranial mucosa .
an ecto - epithelial cell of the paranasal region of the viscerocranial mucosa .
an endothelial cell that is part of the venous sinus of spleen .
a venule endothelial cell that is cubodial ,  expresses leukocyte - specific receptors ,  and allows for passage of lymphocytes into bloodstream .
a endothelial cell of the venule that is squamous shaped .
an epithelial cell of stratum corneum of esophageal epithelium .
an epithelial cell of stratum spinosum of esophageal epithelium .
a glandular epithelial cell of the endometrium .
a glandular epithelial cell of the esophagus .
a glandular epithelial cell of the large intestine .
a glandular epithelial cell that is part of the stomach .
a luminal epithelial cell of mammary gland located in acinus of structure .
a luminal cell of terminal ducts ,  i .e .e the terminal branch of a lactiferous duct which alveolar cells drain into .
a luminal epithelial cell of the lactiferous duct .
a myocardial endocrine cell that is part of the atrium .
a stem cell that can give rise to multiple cell types  ( i .e .
a fibrocyte of the cochlea that has specialized structural and molecular adaptions .
an otic fibrocyte that underlies the spiral prominence and is part of a mesenchymal gap junction network that regulates ionic homeostasis of the endolymph .
an otic fibrocyte that resides above the stria vasularis and is part of a mesenchymal gap junction network that regulates ionic homeostasis of the endolymph .
an otic fibrocyte that is lateral to the basilar membrane and anchoris it to the lateral wall .
an otic fibrocyte that lines the otic capsule .
an otic fibrocyte that underlies the stria vascularis and is part of a mesenchymal gap junction network that regulates ionic homeostasis of the endolymph .
an endothelial stalk cell is a specialized endothelial cell that follows behind the tip cell of an angiogenic sprout .
a multi - fate stem cell that can give rise to different retinal cell types including rod and cone cells .
a skeletal muscle cell that is part of the tongue .
a s . pombe mating type determined by the mat1 - mc and mat1 - mi on the mat1 locus .
a s . pombe cell type determined by mat1 - pc and mat1 - pi on the mat1 locus .
a neuroblast derived from a neural crest cell .
a regulatory t cell that has not encountered antigen .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive alpha - beta regulatory t cell that has encountered antigen .
a lymphocyte found in adipose tissue that lacks lineage markers of other lymphocytes but is capable of mediating th2 cytokine responses .
a pp cell found in intestine .
a cns interneuron located in the spinal cord .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into an iridophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that differentiates into a xanthophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a leucophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into an erythrophore .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that originates from the neural crest and differentiates into a cyanophore .
specialized epithelial cells involved in the maintenance of osmotic homeostasis .
kolmer - agduhr neurons are ciliated gabaergic neurons that contact the central canal of the spinal cord and have ipsilateral ascending axons .
an auditory hair cell located in the macula that is sensitive to auditory stimuli .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney which regulates sodium and potassium balance .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney that regulates acid / base balance .
a cuboidal epithelial cell of the kidney which secretes acid and reabsorbs base to regulate acid / base balance .
a ciliated epithelial cell with many cilium .
a ciliated epithelial cell with a single cilium .
a non - sensory cell that extends from the basement membrane to the apical surface of the auditory epithelium and provides support for auditory hair cells .
an auditory epithelial support cell that surrounds the nerve fibers and synapses of the auditory inner hair cells .
obsolete .use po:0030007 from plant ontology instead .
obsolete .use po:0002002 from plant ontology instead .
a cell that secretes ghrelin ,  the peptide hormone that stimulates hunger .
ghrelin secreting cells found in the exocrine pancreas .
lymphatic progenitor cells .
mesenchymal derived lymphatic progenitor cells that give rise to the superficial lymphatics .
lymphatic progenitor cells ,  derived from the veins ,  that give rise to lymphatic endothelial cells .
cranial motor neuron which innervates muscles derived from the branchial  ( pharyngeal )  arches .
a motor neuron that innervates a skeletal muscle .
a motor neuron that synapses to parasympathetic neurons that innervate tear glands ,  sweat glands ,  and the smooth muscles and glands of the pulmonary ,  cardiovascular ,  and gastrointestinal systems .
multi fate stem cell that gives rise to both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes as descendants .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into an ameloblast .
cell that has the potential to form a skeletal cell type  ( e .g .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into a cementoblast .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to form an odontoblast ,  deposits predentine ,  and arises from a cranial neural crest cell .
cell that is part of the neural crest region of the neuroepithelium ,  prior to migration .
cell that is part of the notochord .
mesodermal cell that is axially located and gives rise to the cells of the notochord .
notochordal cell that is part of the outer epithelium of the notochord and surrounds the vacuolated notochord cells .
notochordal cell that is inner portion of the notochord and becomes vacuolated as development proceeds .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to develop into a chondroblast ;  and arises from neural crest ,  meseosdermal and notochordal and connective tissue cells .
skeletogenic cell that has the potential to transform into an osteoblast ,  and develops from neural crest or mesodermal cells .
neuron that is part of the enteric nervous system .
odontoblast that non - terminally differentiated ,  located in the odontogenic papilla and dentine tissue ,  and transforms from a odontoblast cell .
odontoblast that is terminally differentiated and derived from an odontogenic papilla and associated with dentine .
obsolete: a cultured cell that has been passaged at least one time in culture .
obsolete: a cell line cell that is expected to be capable of replicating a limited number of times in culture before undergoing senescence .
muscle precursor cell that is adjacent to the notochord and part of the presomitic mesoderm .
an epidermal cell with apical microvilli or a single apical projection have synaptic associations with nerve fibres in the epidermis .
ciliated cell of the embryonic epidermis and functions in embryonic movements .
characteristic early embryonic cell with a bottle or flask shape that is first to migrate inwards at the blastopore during gastrulation in amphibians .
secretory cell that produces a chemical mixture that triggers antipredator behavior .
a specialized pore forming cell of the follicle ,  located adjacent to the animal pole of the oocyte .
epidermal cell rich in mitochondria .
any muscle cell in which the fibers are not organised into sarcomeres .
any hematopoietic cell that is a precursor of some other hematopoietic cell type .
a transversely striated ,  synctial cell of skeletal muscle .
a myotube that is part of some somatic muscle .
a muscle cell that is part of some somatic muscle .
a somatic muscle cell that is oblquely striated .
a myoblast that detemines the properties  ( size ,  shape and attachment to the epidermis )  of a `somatic muscle myotube`  ( cl:0008003 )   .
a muscle cell that is part of some visceral muscle
a visceral muscle cell that is striated .
a visceral muscle that is transversely striated .
a cranial motor neuron whose soma is located in the midbrain andor hindbrain and which innervates the skeletal muscles of the eye or tongue .
a skeletal muscle satellite cell that divides by stem cell division .
a skeletal muscle satellite cell that is mitotically quiescent .
a visceromotor motor neuron whose soma is located in the hindbrain ,  and which synapses to parasympathetic neurons that innervate tear glands ,  sweat glands ,  and the smooth muscles of the head .
a motor neuron that is capable of directly inducing muscle contraction .
a motor neuron that is capable of directly inhibiting muscle contraction .
a skeletal muscle cell that has become mitotically active  -  typically following muscle damage .
a skeletal muscle myoblast that is part of a skeletal mucle .
a myoblast that is commited to developing into a somatic muscle .
a non - polarised cell precursor cell that is part of some mesenchyme ,  is associated with the cell matrix but is not connected to other cells and is capable of migration .
a skeletal muscle satellite cell that undergoes symmetric division to produce two adult skeleltal muscle myoblasts .
a mesenchymal cell of the endocardial cushion .
an endocrine cell that is part of the pancreas .
a neuron that release noradrenaline  ( noriphinephrine )  as a neurotransmitter .
an epithelial cell that is part of the epithelium of a tracheal tube in an open tracheal system ,  such as that found in insects .
a bipolar neuron found in the retina that is synapsed by rod photoreceptor cells .
a pericyte of the decidual vasculature .
mural cells are pericytes and the vascular smooth muscle cells  ( vsmcs )  of the microcirculation .
a trophoblast cell that is not part of a placental villous
a large ,  multipolar lower motor neuron of the brainstem and spinal cord that innervates the extrafusal muscle fibers of skeletal muscle .
the motor neurons of vertebrates that directly innervate skeletal muscles .
a skeletal muscle fiber that is innervated by alpha motor neuron and generates tension by contracting ,  thereby allowing for skeletal movement .
a skeletal muscle fiber that is part of a muscle spindle .
a sensory neuron of the spinal nerve that senses body position and sends information about how much the muscle is stretched to the spinal cord .
any cell in the compound eye ,  a light sensing organ composed of ommatidia .
any cell participating in the inflammatory response to a foreign substance ,  e .g .
any cell in the midgut  ( middle subdivision of a digestive tract )  of a larva .
any cell in the retina ,  the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
any cell in a salivary gland .
a hair follicle matrix region cell which synthesizes keratin and undergoes a characteristic change as it moves upward from the hair bulb to become the hair medulla cortex and hair root sheath .
a stromal cell that is part_of a bone marrow .
an epithelial cell that is part_of a umbilical artery .
an epithelial cell that is part_of a alveolus of lung .
a mononuclear cell that is part_of a bone marrow .
a specialized cardiomyocyte that transmit signals from the av node to the cardiac purkinje fibers .
a gabaergic interneuron whose soma is located in the cerebral cortex .
a neuron that is part_of a cerebral cortex .
a highly specialized cell type exclusive to and forming neuroepithelium of the saccus vasculosus ,  covering the caudal diverticulum of the infundibular recess .
a cell with a flagellum surrounded by a collar of microvilli .
a cns interneuron located in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord .
a motor neuron that passes from the spinal cord toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes movement .
a motor neuron that is generated only on limb levels and send axons into the limb mesenchyme .
a neurosecretory neuron residing mainly in the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and in a number of smaller accessory cell groups between these two nuclei ,  that secretes the hormones oxytocin and vasopressin .
a vetebrate lens cell that is any of the elongated ,  tightly packed cells that make up the bulk of the mature lens in a camera - type eye .
an interneuron that uses gaba as a vesicular neurotransmitter .
an inhibitory gabaergic interneuron found in the cerebellar cortex .
a cell in the area of mesoderm in the neurulating embryo that flanks and forms simultaneously with the neural tube .
a hemocyte derived from head mesoderm ,  which enters the hemolymph as acirculating cell .
a plasmatocyte derived from head mesoderm .
a cell derived from the mesoderm that is found at the periphery of the embryo .
a cell derived from the mesoderm that is located between the paraxial mesoderm and the lateral plate .
a cell of the neural crest .
a sperm cell that is cabaple of motion  ( motility )  .
a sperm cell that is not cabaple of motion  ( motility )  .
a motile sperm cell that contain no f - actin ,  and their motility is powered by a dynamic filament system .
a motile sperm cell that contains a slender threadlike microscopic appendage that enables motion .
cell that is part of the vagal neural crest population .
a hematopoietic cell that express ror gamma t and il - 7r alpha in the absence of lineage markers  ( e .g .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the epicardium .
an undifferentiated cell that originates from a neural stem cell and has the capacity to generate multiple types of lineage - restricted progenitors but not to self - renew .
a fibroblast that is part of upper back skin .
a fibroblast that is part of skin of back .
a mast cell that is cd25 +  .
a double negative thymocyte that is cd3 - positive ,  cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  that that are present in the periphery in very low numbers and predominantly produce inf - gamma ,  tnf - alpha ,  and a low amount of tgf - beta ,  but not il - 2 ,  il - 4 ,  il - 10 or il - 13 upon activation .
a precursor cell that has a tendency to differentiate into a specific type of cell .
neuron that secretes the neurotransmitter galanin .
cells of the uterine chorion that acquire specialized structural and / or functional features that characterize chorionic trophoblasts .
parasympathetic neurons are part of the parasympathetic nervous sysem and the cell bodies lie in the brain and sacral region of the spinal cord .
sympathetic neurons are part of the sympathetic nervous system and are primarily adrenergic producing the neurotransmitter noradrenalin along with other neuropeptides .
a type of interneuron in the retinal inner nuclear layer which  \ ncarries information from the inner plexiform layer and the outer  \ nplexiform layer .
a type of interneuron in the retinal inner nuclear layer which  \ ncarries information from the inner plexiform layer and the outer  \ nplexiform layer ,  using dopamine .
a type of interneuron in the retinal inner nuclear layer which  \ ncarries information from the inner plexiform layer and the outer  \ nplexiform layer using gaba .
astrocyte - like radial glial cell that extends vertically throughout the retina ,  with the nucleus are usually in the middle of the inner nuclear layer .
epithelial cell that is part of the colon epithelium .
a neuron that releases hypocretin as a neurotransmitter .
neuron that secretes histamine .
neuroendocrine cells that are born in the nasal placode during embryonic development and migrate through the nose and forebrain to the hypothalamus ,  where they regulate reproduction .
neurons part of the hypothalamic supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei that secrete the hormones ,  oxytocin and vasopressin into the systemic circulation from the posterior pituitary gland .
neuron found in the spriral ganglion .
a segmented neutrophilic cell of the bone marrow reserve pool that expresses cd11b  ( integrin alpha - m )  and high levels of cd16  ( low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor iii )  on its cell surface .
a cell that ,  by division or terminal differentiation ,  can give rise to other cell types .
an astrocyte of the forebrain .
a cns neuron of the forebrain .
motor neuron that innervate muscles that control eye ,  jaw ,  and facial movements of the vertebrate head and parasympathetic neurons that innervate certain glands and organs .
an ionocyte that is part of the lung epithelium .
a mesodermal cell that is part of the splanchnic layer of lateral plate mesoderm .
any serous secreting cell that is part of the tracheobronchial epithelium .
any chondrocyte that is part of the tracheobronchial tree .
any goblet cell that is part of the tracheobronchial epithelium .
an eosinophil with a ring - shaped nucleus that is resident in the lung parenchyma .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of any lymphatic vessel .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of any blood vessel .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the tracheobronchial tree .
goblet cells reside throughout the length of the small and large intestine and are responsible for the production and maintenance of the protective mucus blanket by synthesizing and secreting high - molecular - weight glycoproteins known as mucins .
any brush cell that is part of the intestinal epithelium .
a specialized epithelial secretory cell that moves chloride ions and water across the tubule epithelium .
a rod - like cell in the inner ear ,  having their heads joined and their bases on the basilar membrane widely separated so as to form a spiral tunnel known as the tunnel of corti .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the small intestine .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the duodenum .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the jejunum .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the ileum .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the large intestine .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the colon .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the cecum .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the ascending colon .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the transverse colon .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the descending colon .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the sigmoid colon .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the rectum .
a muscle cell that is part of the anterior internodal tract .
a muscle cell that is part of the atrial branch of anterior internodal tract .
a muscle cell that is part of the atrial septal branch of anterior internodal tract .
a muscle cell that is part of the middle internodal tract .
a muscle cell that is part of the posterior internodal tract .
an epithelial cell that is part of the urethra .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the dura mater .
a fibroblast that is part of the connective tissue of prostate .
a fibroblast that is part of the outer membrane of prostatic capsule .
a fibroblast that is part of the subepithelial connective tissue of prostatic gland .
a fibroblast that is part of the papillary layer of dermis .
a fibroblast that is part of the areolar connective tissue .
a fibroblast that is part of the connective tissue of nonglandular part of prostate .
a fibroblast that is part of the connective tissue of glandular part of prostate .
a fibroblast that is part of the tunica adventitia of artery .
a fibroblast that is part of the dense regular elastic tissue .
a fibrocyte that is part of the adventitia of ureter .
a fat cell that is part of the epicardial fat .
a fat cell that is part of the epicardial fat of right ventricle .
a fat cell that is part of the epicardial fat of left ventricle .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of bronchus .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of stomach .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of gastric cardiac gland .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of principal gastric gland .
obsolete: a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of small intestine .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of intestinal villus .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of crypt of lieberkuhn of small intestine .
obsolete: a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium proper of small intestine .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of large intestine .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of crypt of lieberkuhn of large intestine .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of pancreatic duct .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of pyloric gland .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium proper of duodenum .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium proper of jejunum .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium proper of ileum .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium proper of appendix .
obsolete: a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium proper of large intestine .
a goblet cell that is part of the epithelium of trachea .
a serous secreting cell that is part of the epithelium of trachea .
a serous secreting cell that is part of the epithelium of bronchus .
a serous secreting cell that is part of the epithelium of terminal bronchiole .
a serous secreting cell that is part of the epithelium of bronchiole .
an enterocyte that is part of the epithelium of small intestine .
an enterocyte that is part of the epithelium of intestinal villus .
an enterocyte that is part of the epithelium of duodenal gland .
an enterocyte that is part of the epithelium of crypt of lieberkuhn of small intestine .
an enterocyte that is part of the epithelium proper of small intestine .
an enterocyte that is part of the epithelium proper of duodenum .
an enterocyte that is part of the epithelium proper of jejunum .
an enterocyte that is part of the epithelium proper of ileum .
a paneth cell that is part of the epithelium of small intestine .
a paneth cell that is part of the epithelium proper of small intestine .
a paneth cell that is part of the epithelium of crypt of lieberkuhn of small intestine .
merged definition: target definition: a columnar cell of the colon that is part of the epithelium proper of large intestine .
a columnar cell of the colon that is part of the colonic epithelium .
a basal cell that is part of the epithelium of trachea .
a basal cell found in the bronchus epithelium .
a basal cell that is part of the epithelium of terminal bronchiole .
a basal cell that is part of the epithelium of respiratory bronchiole .
a basal cell that is part of the epithelium of bronchiole .
a m cell that is part of the epithelium of small intestine .
a m cell that is part of the epithelium of intestinal villus .
a m cell that is part of the epithelium proper of small intestine .
a m cell that is part of the epithelium proper of duodenum .
a m cell that is part of the epithelium proper of jejunum .
a m cell that is part of the epithelium proper of ileum .
a m cell that is part of the epithelium proper of appendix .
a m cell that is part of the epithelium proper of large intestine .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the interatrial septum .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the interventricular septum .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the atrial branch of anterior internodal tract .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the anterior internodal tract .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the atrial septal branch of anterior internodal tract .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the middle internodal tract .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the posterior internodal tract .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the anterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the septal division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the left branch of atrioventricular bundle .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the right branch of atrioventricular bundle .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the atrial part of atrioventricular bundle .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the ventricular part of atrioventricular bundle .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the posterior division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle .
a myocardial endocrine cell that is part of the septal division of left branch of atrioventricular bundle .
a purkinje myocyte that is part of the interventricular septum .
a feyrter cell that is part of the epithelium of trachea .
a type i vestibular sensory cell that is part of the stato - acoustic epithelium .
a type i vestibular sensory cell that is part of the epithelium of macula of utricle of membranous labyrinth .
a type i vestibular sensory cell that is part of the epithelium of macula of saccule of membranous labyrinth .
a type i vestibular sensory cell that is part of the epithelium of crista of ampulla of semicircular duct of membranous labyrinth .
a type ii vestibular sensory cell that is part of the stato - acoustic epithelium .
a type ii vestibular sensory cell that is part of the epithelium of macula of utricle of membranous labyrinth .
a type ii vestibular sensory cell that is part of the epithelium of macula of saccule of membranous labyrinth .
a type ii vestibular sensory cell that is part of the epithelium of crista of ampulla of semicircular duct of membranous labyrinth .
a melanocyte that is part of the eyelid .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the intralobular part of terminal lactiferous duct .
an endothelial cell that is part of the venous sinus of red pulp of spleen .
an endothelial cell that is part of the hepatic sinusoid .
an epithelial cell that is part of the appendix .
a muscle cell that is part of the sinoatrial node .
a muscle cell that is part of the atrioventricular node .
an endothelial cell that is part of the small intestine peyer's patch .
an endothelial cell that is part of the arteriole .
a blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of an arterial endothelium .
an endothelial cell that is part of the venule .
an epithelial cell that is part of the gallbladder .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the mammary gland .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the sweat gland .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the mammary gland alveolus .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the lactiferous duct .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the terminal lactiferous duct .
a chromaffin cell that is part of the paraaortic body .
a chromaffin cell that is part of the paraganglion .
a chromaffin cell that is part of the adrenal gland .
a chromaffin cell that is part of the adrenal cortex .
a somatic stem cell that is part of the epidermis .
an epithelial cell that is part of the conjunctiva .
an epithelial cell that is part of the lacrimal canaliculus .
an epithelial cell that is part of the external acoustic meatus .
an epithelial cell that is part of the lacrimal duct .
an epithelial cell that is part of the lacrimal sac .
an epithelial cell that is part of the nasolacrimal duct .
an epithelial cell that is part of the wall of inferior part of anal canal .
an epithelial cell that is part of the viscerocranial mucosa .
an urothelial cell that is part of the trigone of urinary bladder .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the ciliary body .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the anterior chamber of eyeball .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the dilatator pupillae .
a basal cell that is part of the epithelium of esophagus .
an epithelial cell that is part of the sweat gland .
an epithelial cell that is part of the nephron .
an epithelial cell that is part of the glomerular capsule .
an epithelial cell that is part of the glomerular parietal epithelium .
an epithelial cell that is part of the intermediate tubule .
an epithelial cell that is part of the collecting duct of renal tubule .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the parietal peritoneum .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the visceral peritoneum .
a melanocyte that is part of the skin of body .
a chromaffin cell that is part of the ovary .
a chromaffin cell that is part of the right ovary .
a chromaffin cell that is part of the left ovary .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the acinus of lactiferous gland .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the main lactiferous duct .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the primary lactiferous duct .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the secondary lactiferous duct .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the tertiary lactiferous duct .
a myoepithelial cell that is part of the quarternary lactiferous duct .
a nodal myocyte that is part of the sinoatrial node .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the sinoatrial node .
a purkinje myocyte that is part of the atrioventricular node .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the internodal tract .
a transitional myocyte that is part of the atrioventricular bundle .
a myocardial endocrine cell that is part of the interventricular septum .
a purkinje myocyte that is part of the internodal tract .
a purkinje myocyte that is part of the atrioventricular bundle .
a basal cell that is part of the urothelium .
a smooth muscle cell that is part of the prostate gland .
an epithelial cell that is part of the bile duct .
a reticular cell that is part of the splenic cord .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the peritoneum .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the pleura .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the parietal pleura .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the visceral pleura .
an epithelial cell that is part of a nephron tubule .
a goblet cell that is part of the small intestine .
intraglomerular mesangial cells are specialized pericytes located among the glomerular capillaries within a renal corpuscle of a kidney .
an epithelial cell of the exocrine pancreas .
a neuron residing in the olfactory bulb that serve to process and refine signals arising from olfactory sensory neurons
the small neuron in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb whose dendrites arborize within a glomerulus ,  where it receives synaptic input from olfactory receptor cell axon terminals ,  and also engages in dendrodendritic interactions with mitral and tufted cell dendrites ;  uses both gaba and dopamine as a neurotransmitter .
the subcutaneous mechanoreceptors that innervate tylotrich hair follicles .
the subcutaneous mechanoreceptors that innervate vellus hairs .
a sensory neuron of the dorsal root ganglia that senses body position and sends information about how much the muscle is stretched to the spinal cord .
the inhibitory projection neurons located in the striatum that integrate glutamatergic signals arising from the cerebral cortex and thalamus .
the large glutaminergic nerve cells whose dendrites synapse with axons of the olfactory receptor neurons in the glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb ,  and whose axons pass centrally in the olfactory tract to the olfactory cortex .
the principal glutaminergic neuron located in the outer third of the external plexiform layer of the olfactory bulb ;  a single short primary dendrite traverses the outer external plexiform layer and terminates within an olfactory glomerulus in a tuft of branches ,  where it receives the input from olfactory receptor neuron axon terminals ;  axons of the tufted cells transfer information to a number of areas in the brain ,  including the piriform cortex ,  entorhinal cortex ,  olfactory tubercle ,  and amygdala .
the secretory neurons of the paraventricular nucleus that synthesize and secrete vasopressin ,  corticotropin - releasing factor  ( crf )  and thyrotropin - releasing hormone  ( trh )  into blood vessels in the hypothalamo - pituitary portal system .
the neurons that utilize glycine as a neurotransmitter .
the various hormone -  or neurotransmitter - secreting cells present throughout the mucosa of the intestinal tract .
the various hormone -  or neurotransmitter - secreting cells present throughout the mucosa of the stomach .
chemosensitive cells that innervate the vomernasal organ epithelium and are responsible for receiving and transmitting pheromone signals .
a respiratory stem cell found at the junction of the terminal  ( conductive )  bronchiole and the respiratory bronchiole ,  which gives rise to alveolar cell types and club cells in response to lung injury .
an interneuron of the hippocampus .
a pyramidal neuron of the hippocampus .
a vascular endothelial cell found in colon blood vessels .
cell of the nasopharyngeal epithelium .
squamous cell of uterine cervix epithelium .
squamous cell of oral epithelium .
squamous cell of tonsil epithelium .
squamous cell of vaginal epithelium .
glial cell of cerebral cortex .
glial cell of hippocampus .
glial cell of lateral ventricle .
neuron of lateral ventricle .
obsolete: adipocytes found in the subcutaneous adipose tissue of breast .
glandular cell of appendix epithelium .
glandular cell of mammary epithelium .
glandular cell of uterine cervix epithelium .
glandular cell of colon epithelium .
glandular cell of duodenal epithelium .
glandular cell of epididymal epithelium .
glandular cell of oviduct epithelium .
glandular cell of gall bladder epithelium .
glandular cell of parathyroid epithelium .
glandular cell of rectal epithelium .
glandular cell of salivary gland .
glandular cell of seminal vesicle epithelium .
a glandular cell found in the epithelium of the small intestine .
glandular cell of exocrine pancreas epithelium .
hormone secreting cell located in the cortex of adrenal gland .
endothelial cells forming the walls of the capillaries within the cerebral cortex .
circulating macrophages and tissue macrophages  ( alveolar macrophages )  of lung .
keratinocyte from foreskin .
chondrocyte forming the hyaline cartilage found in joints .
fibroblast from foreskin .
fibroblast from muscle organ .
hematopoietic cells resident in the bone marrow .
neuron of the cerebellum .
any melanocyte that is part of a epidermis .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form found in the circulatory pool of blood .
a specialized ,  enlarged ,  connective tissue cell of the decidua with enlarged nucleus ,  dense membranebound secretory granules and cytoplasmic accumulation of glycogen and lipid droplets .
any cell that is part of a pituitary gland .
any macroglial cell that is part of a brain .
any germinal center b cell that is part of a tonsil .
chondrocyte forming the hyaline cartilage found in the knee joint .
any blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of a microvascular endothelium .
any blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of a microvascular endothelium .
any blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of a dermis .
any endothelial cell of lymphatic vessel that is part of a dermis .
any skin fibroblast that is part of a pedal digit skin .
any skin fibroblast that is part of a skin of abdomen .
any skin fibroblast that is part of a upper leg skin .
any skin fibroblast that is part of a arm .
any lung endothelial cell that is part of a microvascular endothelium .
any fibroblast that is part of a periodontal ligament .
any endothelial cell of artery that is part of a coronary artery .
any photoreceptor cell that is part of a compound eye .
any native cell that is part of a inner cell mass .
any native cell that is part of a sebaceous gland .
any native cell that is part of a cardiac septum .
any interneuron that is part of a spinal cord ventral column .
any neuron that is part of a spinal cord medial motor column .
any oligodendrocyte that is part of a spinal cord .
any golgi cell that is part of a cerebellum .
any basket cell that is part of a cerebellum .
any glutamatergic neuron that is part of a cerebellum .
any neuron that is part of a central nervous system .
any native cell that is part of a hypothalamus .
any neuron that is part of a lateral line ganglion .
any neuron that is part of a peripheral nervous system .
any basal cell of epidermis that is part of a limb .
any neuromast hair cell that is part of a anterior lateral line .
any neuromast mantle cell that is part of a anterior lateral line .
any neuromast support cell that is part of a anterior lateral line .
any neuromast hair cell that is part of a posterior lateral line .
any neuromast mantle cell that is part of a posterior lateral line .
any neuromast support cell that is part of a posterior lateral line .
any microvascular endothelial cell that is part of a urinary bladder .
any dermis lymphatic vessel endothelial cell that is part of a microvascular endothelium .
any fibroblast that is part of a embryo .
any pericyte cell that is part of a brain .
any microvascular endothelial cell that is part of a brain .
any melanocyte that is part of a prepuce of penis .
any cardiac muscle cell that is part of a cardiac ventricle .
any motor neuron that is part of a brainstem .
an lower motor neuron whose soma is located in one of the ventral horns of the spinal cord and innervates skeletal muscles of the trunk or head .
any pyramidal cell that is part of a primary motor cortex .
any retinal ganglion cell that is part of a retina .
any fibroblast that is part of a spleen .
any endothelial cell of artery that is part of a umbilical cord .
any endothelial cell that is part of a spleen .
a large ,  granular ,  liver specific natural killer cell that adheres to the endothelial cells of the hepatic sinusoid .
any dendritic cell that is part of a liver .
any pyramidal cell that is part of a regional part of cerebral cortex .
any osteoblast that is part of a femur .
any osteoblast that is part of a skull .
any microvascular endothelial cell that is part of a prostate gland .
a trophoblast of placental villi .
any mesenchymal stem cell that is part of a placenta .
any capillary endothelial cell that is part of a placenta .
any fibroblast that is part of a female gonad .
any epithelial cell that is part of a female gonad .
any microvascular endothelial cell that is part of a female urethra .
any fibroblast that is part of a cardiac ventricle .
any fibroblast that is part of a cardiac atrium .
any fibroblast that is part of a pericardium .
any fibroblast that is part of a gallbladder .
any fibroblast that is part of a optic choroid .
any microvascular endothelial cell that is part of a breast .
any microvascular endothelial cell that is part of a adipose tissue .
any migratory neural crest cell that is part of a cardiac neural crest .
any leukocyte that is part of a spleen .
any endodermal cell that is part of a anterior visceral endoderm .
any vein endothelial cell that is part of a hindlimb stylopod .
any striated muscle cell that is part of a skeletal muscle tissue of pectoralis major .
any pericyte cell that is part of a placenta .
any mesenchymal stem cell of the bone marrow that is part of a femur .
any mesenchymal stem cell of adipose that is part of a abdomen .
any melanocyte of skin that is part of a skin of face .
any melanocyte of skin that is part of a skin of prepuce of penis .
any hair follicle dermal papilla cell that is part of a scalp .
any goblet cell that is part of a conjunctiva .
any mononuclear cell that is part of a umbilical cord .
any basket cell that is part of a neocortex .
any basket cell that is part of a dentate gyrus of hippocampal formation .
any basket cell that is part of a ammon's horn .
the principal cell type of the dentate gyrus .
any stellate cell that is part of a dentate gyrus of hippocampal formation .
any microvascular endothelial cell that is part of a endometrial blood vessel .
any keratinocyte that is part of a hair follicle .
any fibroblast of lung that is part of a bronchus .
any epithelial cell of viscerocranial mucosa that is part of a nasal cavity respiratory epithelium .
any hematopoietic stem cell that is part of a umbilical cord blood .
any fibroblast that is part of a reticular layer of dermis .
any dopaminergic neuron that is part of a midbrain .
a ciliated epithelial cell of the esophagus .
oval eosinophilic histiocytes with granules and vacuoles found in placenta ,  which are of mesenchymal origin ,  in mesoderm of the chorionic villus ,  particularly numerous in early pregnancy .
sympathetic noradrenergic neuron .
sympathetic cholinergic neuron .
peripheral sensory neuron .
cytoplasm that exhibits a characteristic staining and color ,  pale - pink ,  with wright - giemsa stain .
nucleus with two or more lobes connected by a thin filament that contains no internal chromatin .
cytoplasm that exhibits a characteristic staining and color ,  red or pink ,  with eosin stain .
cytoplasm that exhibits molecular interaction for basic dyes under specific ph conditions .
cytoplasm that exhibits affinity for both basic and acid stains under specific ph conditions .
a nucleus size quality which is relatively high compared to the amount of cytoplasm present in the same cell .
a concave nuclear shape where the nucleus is indented to more than half the distance to the farthest nuclear margin ,  but in no area is the chromatin condensed to a single filament .
a concave nucleus shape where the indentation is smaller than half of the distance to the farthest nuclear margin .
heterochromatin that is arranged in a carthwheel pattern .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination ,  a dna metabolic process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
the cell cycle process in which replicated homologous chromosomes are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two sets during the mitotic cell cycle .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a chromosome that encodes the nuclear genome and is found in the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell during the cell cycle phases when the nucleus is intact .
a chromosome found in the cytoplasm .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
a ribosome contained within a subcellular membrane - bounded organelle .
a vacuole that is maintained at an acidic ph and which contains degradative enzymes ,  including a wide variety of acid hydrolases .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome in the cytoplasm .
the ordered and organized complex of dna ,  protein ,  and sometimes rna ,  that forms the chromosome in the nucleus .
a dispersed and relatively uncompacted form of chromatin .
a compact and highly condensed form of chromatin .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeleton over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that modulates levels of neurotransmitter .
a process in which membrane potential cycles through a depolarizing spike ,  triggered in response to depolarization above some threshold ,  followed by repolarization .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels .
cell motility due to movement of eukaryotic cilia or bacterial - type flagella or archaeal - type flagella .
the set of processes resulting in differentiation of theca and granulosa cells into luteal cells and in the formation of a corpus luteum after ovulation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a blood vessel over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a process that results in a parallel arrangement of microtubules .
the process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an osteoblast ,  a mesodermal or neural crest cell that gives rise to bone .
cell migration that is accomplished by extension and retraction of a pseudopodium .
the formation of the acrosome from the spermatid golgi .
the change in morphology and behavior of a dendritic cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of cells of the immune system such that the total number of cells of a particular cell type within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of b cells such that the total number of b cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
any apoptotic process in a b cell ,  a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive and capable of b cell mediated immunity .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of a cytokine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of production of a cytokine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of production of a cytokine .
the regulated release of serotonin by a cell .
the regulated release of histamine by a cell or tissue .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined tissue of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
the directed killing of a target cell by a leukocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
the directed killing of a target cell by a t cell through the release of granules containing cytotoxic mediators or through the engagement of death receptors .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of t cell mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell mediated cytotoxicity .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter .
the vesicular release of  dopamine .
the reorganization or renovation of existing blood vessels .
the regulation of blood pressure mediated by detection of stimuli and a neurological response .
the process in which hormones modulate the force with which blood passes through the circulatory system .
the process in which angiotensinogen metabolites in the bloodstream modulate the force with which blood passes through the circulatory system .
the physiological response of the kidneys to a decrease in blood flow .
the regulated release of renin into the blood stream by juxtoglomerular cells .
a process carried out by the nervous system that is required for the proper control of respiratory gaseous exchange .
the somatic process allowing for the production of immune receptors whose specificity is not encoded in the germline genomic sequences .
the process in which immunoglobulin genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  also known as immunoglobulin gene segments ,  within a single locus following the induction of and contributing to an immune response .
the somatic process that results in the generation of sequence diversity of immunoglobulins after induction ,  and contributes to an immune response .
a response to protect an organism from a directly detected or perceived external threat from a nematode or nematodes ,  which results in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide production .
any process of the innate immune response that takes place in the mucosal tissues .
the promotion of an immune response by natural killer cells through direct recognition of target cells or through the release of cytokines .
the movement of an immune cell in response to an external stimulus contributing to an inflammatory response .
the movement of an immune cell in response to an external stimulus a part of an immune response .
the process in which precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a hematopoietic progenitor cell ,  a class of cell types including myeloid progenitor cells and lymphoid progenitor cells .
the series of events that restore integrity to damaged tissue that contribute to an inflammatory response .
any process contributing to lymphocyte anergy ,  a state of functional inactivation .
an immune response mediated by cells expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for an enhanced secondary response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
an immune response taking place in an organ or tissues such as the liver ,  brain ,  mucosa ,  or nervous system tissues .
any process of the immune system that can potentially contribute to an immune response .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of lymphocytes such that the total number of lymphocytes within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of myeloid cells such that the total number of myeloid cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an inflammatory response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a myeloid cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a myeloid dendritic cell resulting from exposure to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the process in which an immature myeloid dendritic cell acquires the specialized features of a mature myeloid dendritic cell as part of an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of an alpha - beta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature natural killer t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a gamma - delta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the process in which an antigenically naive t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell as part of an immune response .
the process in which an antigenically naive alpha - beta t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell during an immune response .
the process in which an antigenically naive cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell as part of an immune response .
the process in which an antigenically naive gamma - delta t cell acquires the specialized features of an effector ,  regulatory ,  or memory t cell and contributes to an immune response .
the expansion of a t cell population by cell division as part of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell during an immune response ,  resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the process in which a naive b cell acquires the specialized features of a mature or memory b cell during an immune response .
the process in which a b cell in the spleen acquires the specialized features of a germinal center b cell .
the change in morphology and behavior of a natural killer cell resulting from exposure a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the process in which transitional stage b cells acquire the specialized features of mature b cells in the spleen .
the process dependent upon b cell antigen receptor signaling in response to self or foreign antigen through which b cells are selected for survival .
any b cell selection process that occurs in the periphery .
the process in which b cells produce antibodies with increased antigen affinity .
the synthesis or release of histamine following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of serotonin following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the appearance of a cytokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus contributing to an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that contributes to cytokine production by a t cell .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
the appearance of immunoglobulin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a b cell or plasma cell contributing to an immune response .
the appearance of immunoglobulin due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus during an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
an immune response taking place in mucosal tissues ,  including those of the intestinal tract ,  nasal and upper respiratory tract ,  and genital tract .
immune response taking place in the mucosal - associated lymphoid tissue  ( malt )  .
immune response taking place in the gut - associated lymphoid tissue  ( galt )  .
an immune response taking place in the nasopharyngeal - associated lymphoid tissue  ( nalt )  .
the formation of nodular inflammatory lesions ,  usually small or granular ,  firm ,  persistent ,  well - structured ,  and containing compactly grouped t lymphocytes and modified phagocytes such as epithelioid cells ,  giant cells ,  and other macrophages .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the immune response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the regulated release of histamine by a cell as part of an inflammatory response .
the regulated release of serotonin by a cell as part of an inflammatory response .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a lymphocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a t cell .
an immune response mediated by lymphocytes expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process that includes somatic recombination of germline gene segments encoding immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
tolerance induction dependent upon an immune response ,  typically a response by a mature t or b cell in the periphery resulting tolerance towards an antigen via induction of anergy ,  cellular deletion ,  or regulatory t cell activation .
tolerance induction in the peripheral lymphoid tissues: blood ,  lymph nodes ,  spleen ,  and mucosal - associated lymphoid tissues .
the process in which germinal centers form .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen on its cell surface in association with an mhc class i protein complex .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ii protein complex .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc class ii protein complex .
a process that directly activates any of the steps required for tolerance ,  a physiologic state in which the immune system does not react destructively against the components of an organism that harbors it or against antigens that are introduced to it .
a process involving any mechanism for tolerance induction in b cells .
any process contributing to anergy in b cells ,  a state of functional inactivation which is part of b cell tolerance induction .
the apoptotic death of b cells which is part of b cell tolerance induction .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system whose objective is to provide calibrated responses by an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat ,  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a leukocyte .
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body as part of an immune response .
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body contributing to an inflammatory response .
inflammation which comprises a rapid ,  short - lived ,  relatively uniform response to acute injury or antigenic challenge and is characterized by accumulations of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and granulocytic leukocytes .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the inflammatory response following an inflammatory stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of a cytokine following a inflammatory stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals ,  resulting in an increase in their intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of nitric oxide following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of products of arachidonic acid metabolism following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in their intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of any prostaglandin following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the synthesis or release of any leukotriene following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
inflammation of prolonged duration  ( weeks or months )  in which active inflammation ,  tissue destruction ,  and attempts at repair are proceeding simultaneously .
the movement of a monocyte in response to an external stimulus .
the process in which immune receptor genes are diversified through recombination of the germline genetic elements within a single genetic locus .
the process in which immune receptor genes are diversified through somatic mutation .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte lineage .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a thrombocyte ,  a nucleated cell found in all vertebrates but mammals involved in hemostasis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  via mhc class ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  via mhc class ii .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of antigen  ( peptide or polysaccharide )  via mhc class ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen via mhc class ii .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen via mhc class ii .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen via mhc class ii .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen via mhc class i .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen via mhc class i .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antigen processing and presentation of peptide antigen via mhc class i .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of granuloma formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of granuloma formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of granuloma formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of germinal center formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of germinal center formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of germinal center formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of immunoglobulin production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction dependent upon immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction dependent upon immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tolerance induction dependent upon immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peripheral tolerance induction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peripheral tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peripheral tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell tolerance induction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell tolerance induction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell tolerance induction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell anergy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell anergy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell anergy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as part of a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte migration .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte chemotaxis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the production of molecular mediator of immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production that contributes to an immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production contributing to an immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cytokine production that contributes to an immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell cytokine production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell cytokine production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of t cell cytokine production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an antimicrobial humoral response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an antimicrobial humoral response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte differentiation .
the synthesis or release of an antimicrobial peptide during an immune response ,  resulting in an increase in intracellular or extracellular levels .
the regulated release of an antimicrobial peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide production .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of antimicrobial peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response based on somatic recombination of immune receptors built from immunoglobulin superfamily domains .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 1 type immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 1 type immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a t - helper 1 type immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a type 2 immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a type 2 immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a type 2 immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell deletion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell deletion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell deletion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immunoglobulin mediated immune response .
any apoptotic process in a b cell that is mature ,  having left the bone marrow .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of b cell apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mature b cell apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mature b cell apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of mature b cell apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte anergy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte anergy .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of lymphocyte anergy .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out at the level of a muscle .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the circulatory system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system .
a circulatory system process carried out by the heart .
a process carried out by the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
the regulation of blood pressure mediated by biochemical signaling: hormonal ,  autocrine or paracrine .
renal process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the circulatory system .
the process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the systemic arterial circulatory system .
the process in which renin - angiotensin modulates the force with which blood passes through the circulatory system .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell or a group of cells .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cilium movement ,  the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
combining with an extracellular or intracellular signal and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity or state as part of signal transduction .
combining with an extracellular signal and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated g - protein ;  promotes the exchange of gdp for gtp on the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric g - protein complex .
combining with any modified low - density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  or other polyanionic ligand and delivering the ligand into the cell via endocytosis .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
enables the facilitated diffusion of an ion  ( by an energy - independent process )  by passage through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel without evidence for a carrier - mediated mechanism .
enables the transmembrane transfer of an ion by a voltage - gated channel .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
that part of a multicellular organism outside the cells proper ,  usually taken to be outside the plasma membranes ,  and occupied by fluid .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
a structure composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins  ( e .g .
the dispersed less dense form of chromatin in the interphase nucleus .
a condensed form of chromatin ,  occurring in the nucleus during interphase ,  that stains strongly with basophilic dyes .
a small ,  dense body one or more of which are present in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a small lytic vacuole that has cell cycle - independent morphology and is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases ,  most of which have their maximal activities in the ph range 5 - 6 .
a lysosome before it has fused with a vesicle or vacuole .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
a membrane - bound cytoplasmic organelle of the endomembrane system that further processes the core oligosaccharides  ( e .g .
an intracellular organelle ,  about 200 a in diameter ,  consisting of rna and protein .
any of the various filamentous elements that form the internal framework of cells ,  and typically remain after treatment of the cells with mild detergent to remove membrane constituents and soluble components of the cytoplasm .
a filamentous structure formed of a two - stranded helical polymer of the protein actin and associated proteins .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
the component of the plasma membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aminoglycans ,  any polymer containing amino groups that consists of more than about 10 monosaccharide residues joined to each other by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aminoglycans ,  any polymer containing amino groups that consists of more than about 10 monosaccharide residues joined to each other by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycosaminoglycans ,  any of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
any process in which a new genotype is formed by reassortment of genes resulting in gene combinations different from those that were present in the parents .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna or circrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus ;  includes de novo formation and steroid interconversion by modification .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of bile acids ,  any of a group of steroid carboxylic acids occurring in bile .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of cations ,  atoms or small molecules with a net positive charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of dicarboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of serotonin into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the transport of substances that occurs outside cells .
the directed extracellular movement of amino acids .
the directed movement of amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
the evagination of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes .
a vesicle - mediated transport process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes and their delivery to the lysosome .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
the breakdown of structures such as organelles ,  proteins ,  or other macromolecular structures during apoptosis .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism ,  or the directed growth of a cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
a process in which force is generated within muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
an immune response mediated through a body fluid .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the nucleus .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton ,  that part of the cytoskeleton comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
a microtubule - based process that results in the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the cell cycle process in which chromatin structure is compacted prior to and during mitosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
a mitotic cell cycle in which chromosomes are replicated and sister chromatids separate ,  but spindle formation ,  nuclear membrane breakdown and nuclear division do not occur ,  resulting in an increased number of chromosomes in the cell .
the second nuclear division of meiosis ,  in which the two chromatids in each chromosome are separated ,  resulting in four daughter nuclei from the two nuclei produced in meiosis ii .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the male germline .
a cell cycle process comprising the steps by which a cell progresses through male meiosis ii ,  the second meiotic division in the male germline .
a cell cycle process by which the cell nucleus divides as part of a meiotic cell cycle in the female germline .
the cell cycle process in which the second meiotic division occurs in the female germline .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
the attachment of a leukocyte to another cell via adhesion molecules .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
a series of molecular signals initiated by activation of a receptor on the surface of a cell .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the vesicular release of classical neurotransmitter molecules from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of neurotransmitter receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the regulated release of neurotransmitter from the presynapse into the synaptic cleft via calcium - regulated exocytosis during synaptic transmission .
the vesicular release of acetylcholine from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of dopamine receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an immature germ cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure  ( gamete )  .
the developmental process by which male germ line stem cells self renew or give rise to successive cell types resulting in the development of a spermatozoa .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the assembly and organization of the sperm flagellar axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of the eukaryotic sperm flagellum ,  and is responsible for movement .
the specialization of the spermatid nucleus during the development of a spermatid into a mature male gamete competent for fertilization .
generation of the female gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a male gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the union of male and female gametes to form a zygote .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progress through the mitotic cell cycle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the heart over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the establishment of the sex of an organism by physical differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of ecdysteroid from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of juvenile hormone secretion .
the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the controlled release of a fluid by a cell or tissue in an animal .
the sequential process in which the multiple coagulation factors of the blood interact ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of an insoluble fibrin clot ;  it may be divided into three stages: stage 1 ,  the formation of intrinsic and extrinsic prothrombin converting principle ;  stage 2 ,  the formation of thrombin ;  stage 3 ,  the formation of stable fibrin polymers .
the stopping of bleeding  ( loss of body fluid )  or the arrest of the circulation to an organ or part .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory chemical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving bile acids ,  any of a group of steroid carboxylic acids occurring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
any process that modulates the force with which blood travels through the circulatory system .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a lipid .
the activity of binding selectively and non - covalently to and distorting the original structure of dna ,  typically a straight helix ,  into a bend ,  or increasing the bend if the original structure was intrinsically bent due to its sequence .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an antimicrobial humoral response .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the gonad over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
enables the transfer of a negatively charged ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of organic anions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the female gonad over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which nitrogen is taken from its relatively inert molecular form  ( n2 )  in the atmosphere and converted into nitrogen compounds useful for other chemical processes ,  such as ammonia ,  nitrate and nitrogen dioxide .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the union of gametes of opposite sexes during the process of sexual reproduction to form a zygote .
the series of events in which an external stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which an  ( non - living )  abiotic stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a light stimulus  ( in the form of photons )  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a visible light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which an ultraviolet radiation  ( uv light )  stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a gravitational stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a chemical stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
morphogenesis of an animal organ .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the directed movement of hormones into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
compaction of chromatin structure prior to meiosis in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of photosynthesis .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endomembrane system .
the infolding of a membrane .
the process in which a gene's sequence is converted into a mature gene product or products  ( proteins or rna )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of norepinephrine .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of norepinephrine .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the levels of hormone within an organism or a tissue .
any process in which a lipid is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the movement of organelles or other particles from one location in the cell to another along microtubules ,  driven by motor activity .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any membrane - bounded vesicle in the cell .
the regulated release of dopamine by a cell .
the controlled release of glutamate by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of glutamate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of glutamate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of glutamate .
the regulated release of gamma - aminobutyric acid by a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
the regulated release of acetylcholine by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of acetylcholine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of acetylcholine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of acetylcholine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of epinephrine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of norepinephrine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of serotonin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of serotonin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of serotonin .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a striated muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
enables the transfer of an ion from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the transfer of bicarbonate from one side of a membrane to the other .
enables the energy - independent facilitated diffusion ,  mediated by passage of a solute through a transmembrane aqueous pore or channel .
enables the transfer of an inorganic molecular entity from the outside of a cell to the inside of the cell across a membrane .
the part of the cytoskeleton  ( the internal framework of a cell )  composed of actin and associated proteins .
the directed movement of substances that are gaseous in normal living conditions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of oxygen  ( o2 )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic cations into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of bicarbonate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic anions into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of monocarboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of acidic amino acids ,  amino acids with a ph below 7 ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of neutral amino acids ,  amino acids with no net charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of l - enantiomer amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba ,  4 - aminobutyrate )  ,  an amino acid which acts as a neurotransmitter in some organisms ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of glycine ,  aminoethanoic acid ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of amines ,  including polyamines ,  organic compounds containing one or more amino groups ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of monoamines ,  organic compounds that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by an ethylene group  (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of an organic hydroxy compound  ( organic alcohol )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of acetylcholine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of dopamine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of norepinephrine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the synthesis by organisms of organic chemical compounds ,  especially carbohydrates ,  from carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  using energy obtained from light rather than from the oxidation of chemical compounds .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
the component of a membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the series of events in which a temperature stimulus  ( hot or cold )  is received and converted into a molecular signal .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
an immune response mediated by immunoglobulins ,  whether cell - bound or in solution .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
the cell cycle process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during the meiotic cell cycle in a female .
recombination occurring within or between dna molecules in somatic cells .
the somatic process that results in the generation of sequence diversity of immunoglobulins .
mutations occurring somatically that result in amino acid changes in the rearranged v regions of immunoglobulins .
the process in which immunoglobulin genes are formed through recombination of the germline genetic elements ,  as known as immunoglobulin gene segments ,  within a single locus .
the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell from one site to a destination guided by molecular cues .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of angiogenesis .
the self - renewing division of a stem cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the neurological system process in which a signal is transmitted through the nervous system by a combination of action potential propagation and synaptic transmission .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
any process involved with the carrying out of an immune response by a b cell ,  through ,  for instance ,  the production of antibodies or cytokines ,  or antigen presentation to t cells .
an immune response against microbes mediated through a body fluid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
an immunoglobulin complex that is present in the plasma membrane of b cells and that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses antigen  ( peptide or lipid )  of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc protein complex .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
generation of cells within the nervous system .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
a cellular process that results in the breakdown of a cellular component .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
a process involved in the sexual cycle seen in females ,  often with physiologic changes in the endometrium that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
enables the transfer of a substance ,  usually a specific substance or a group of related substances ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmembrane transporter activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gene expression as a consequence of a process in which a signal is released and / or conveyed from one location to another .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with major histocompatibility complex class ib molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the process in which a signal is secreted or discharged into the extracellular medium from a cellular source .
the contractile element of skeletal and cardiac muscle ;  a long ,  highly organized bundle of actin ,  myosin ,  and other proteins that contracts by a sliding filament mechanism .
the repeating unit of a myofibril in a muscle cell ,  composed of an array of overlapping thick and thin filaments between two adjacent z discs .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a cellular component that forms a specialized region of connection between two or more cells ,  or between a cell and the extracellular matrix ,  or between two membrane - bound components of a cell ,  such as flagella .
the regulated release of a peptide hormone from a cell .
the regulated release of proinsulin from secretory granules accompanied by cleavage of proinsulin to form mature insulin .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ / tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time ,  from formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized precursor cell acquires specialized features of a lymphocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte ,  megakaryocyte ,  thrombocyte ,  or erythrocyte lineages .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
the change in morphology and behavior of a natural killer cell in response to a cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the regulated release of vasopressin from secretory granules into the blood .
a small subcellular vesicle ,  surrounded by a membrane ,  that is formed from the golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a neuron .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a b cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving melatonin  ( n - acetyl - 5 - methoxytryptamine )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of melatonin  ( n - acetyl - 5 - methoxytryptamine )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an extracellular matrix .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heparin ,  any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans found mainly as an intracellular component of mast cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosaminoglycans ,  any one of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heparin ,  any member of a group of glycosaminoglycans of average mr  ( 6000 - 20000 )  ,  consisting predominantly of alternating alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked d - galactose and n - acetyl - d - glucosamine - 6 - sulfate residues .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires characteristics of a more mature t - cell .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of an erythrocyte .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of a megakaryocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires specialized features of a basophil cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specializes features of an eosinophil .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a neutrophil .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a monocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of a macrophage .
the regulated release of growth hormone from secretory granules into the blood .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
alterations undergone by nuclei at the molecular and morphological level as part of the execution phase of apoptosis .
the compaction of chromatin during apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized monocyte acquires the specialized features of an osteoclast .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cilium  ( aka flagellum )  that contributes to the movement of a flagellated sperm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
the directed movement of a neutrophil cell ,  the most numerous polymorphonuclear leukocyte found in the blood ,  in response to an external stimulus ,  usually an infection or wounding .
the movement of a leukocyte in response to an external stimulus .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a cytoplasmic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a secretory granule .
the directed movement of substances along cytoskeletal fibers such as microfilaments or microtubules within a cell .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a granulocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of granulocyte differentiation .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epithelial cell ,  any of the cells making up an epithelium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency or rate of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
any process that stimulates ,  induces or increases the rate of myeloid dendritic cell activation .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a membrane that is one of the two lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope or the outermost membrane of single membrane bound organelle .
the component of a membrane consisting of the gene products having some covalently attached portion ,  for example part of a peptide sequence or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor ,  which spans or is embedded in one or both leaflets of the membrane .
the component of the plasma membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a pseudopodium ,  a temporary protrusion or retractile process of a cell ,  associated with cellular movement .
the process of providing ,  via surface - bound receptor - ligand pairs ,  a second ,  antigen - independent ,  signal in addition to that provided by the b -  or t cell receptor to augment b -  or t cell activation .
the component of the organelle membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
the component of the organelle membrane consisting of the gene products having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing ,  the process in which a cell brings about the death of another cell ,  either in the same or a different organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell projections .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
a vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
the volume enclosed by the nuclear inner membrane .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin .
the assembly of a bleb ,  a cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation ,  rounded shape ,  and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholinergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter acetylcholine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dopaminergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter dopamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gabaergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
the regulated release of a gonadotropin ,  any hormone that stimulates the gonads ,  especially follicle - stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone .
the regulated release of luteinizing hormone ,  a gonadotropic glycoprotein hormone secreted by the anterior pituitary .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a gonadotropin .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a gonadotropin .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a gonadotropin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
combining with an mhc class ib protein complex and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity .
any process that modulates the activity of a transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a transporter .
any process that modulates the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an ion transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an ion transporter .
an assembly of actin filaments that are on the same axis but may be oriented with the same or opposite polarities and may be packed with different levels of tightness .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon type i production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type i interferon production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of type i interferon production .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the appearance of type i interferon due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interferon - gamma due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 1 beta due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 1 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 10 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 13 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of any member of the interleukin - 17 family of cytokines due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 2 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 22 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 4 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 5 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 6 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 8 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of interleukin - 9 due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the appearance of tumor necrosis factor due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 beta production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 10 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 13 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of any member of the interleukin - 17 family of cytokines .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 2 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 22 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 4 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 5 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 6 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 8 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 9 production .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 beta production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 10 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 13 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of any member of the interleukin - 17 family of cytokines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 2 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 22 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 4 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 5 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 6 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 8 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 9 production .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tumor necrosis factor production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interferon - gamma production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 beta production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 1 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 10 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 13 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of production of any member of the interleukin - 17 family of cytokines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 2 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 22 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 4 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 5 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 6 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 8 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of interleukin - 9 production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor production .
the regulated release of bile acid ,  composed of any of a group of steroid carboxylic acids occurring in bile ,  by a cell or a tissue .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  ( cooh )  group or anion  ( coo -  )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of epinephrine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of epinephrine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell activation .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any cellular process that depends upon or alters the microtubule cytoskeleton .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of organic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzymatic generation of superoxide by a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzymatic generation of superoxide by a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzymatic generation of superoxide by a cell .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
the controlled release of a substance by a tissue .
the expansion of a mononuclear cell population by cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
any macromolecular complex composed of two or more polypeptide subunits ,  which may or may not be identical .
a protein complex composed of a subunit or subunits capable of binding the fc portion of an immunoglobulin with additional signaling components .
a protein complex composed of an fc - gamma riii alpha chain and an fc - epsilon ri gamma chain dimer with or without an fc - epsilon ri beta chain and additional signaling components .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
the process in which immune receptor v ,  d ,  and j ,  or v and j gene segments ,  depending on the specific receptor ,  are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the process in which immunoglobulin gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
the regulated release of cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  from the choroid plexus of the lateral ,  third and fourth ventricles .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a secretory granule .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a secretory granule in a t cell .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a secretory granule in a t cell .
any process in which a protease is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a secretory granule in a t cell .
any process in which the protease granzyme b is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a secretory granule in a t cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of dopamine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a catecholamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of luteinizing hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of luteinizing hormone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of luteinizing hormone .
any process of regulating the production and elimination of erythrocytes within an organism .
the selective elimination of erythrocytes from the body by autoregulatory mechanisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of erythrocyte clearance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of erythrocyte clearance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of erythrocyte clearance .
a process in which an ion is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
events resulting in the formation of a multilayered cellular sheath surrounding an invader and thus preventing its development .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized structural and / or functional features of a cell that will form part of the cardiac organ of an individual .
the assembly and organization of an axoneme ,  the bundle of microtubules and associated proteins that forms the core of cilia  ( also called flagella )  in eukaryotic cells and is responsible for their movements .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized .
the vesicular release of glutamate from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of glutamate receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tube over time ,  from its initial formation to a mature structure .
an immunoglobulin - like complex that is present in at least the plasma membrane of pre - b cells ,  and that is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two surrogate light chains ,  each composed of the lambda - 5 and vpreb proteins ,  and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the synthesis or release of any leukotriene following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the synthesis or release of any leukotriene following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the synthesis or release of any leukotriene following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location within the extracellular region .
the transfer of information occurring at the level of a multicellular organism .
the change in morphology and behavior of a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium that contributes to cilium assembly .
the regulated release of any steroid that acts as a hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any corticosteroid hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any mineralocorticoid into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of any glucocorticoid hormone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of an androgen into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of testosterone into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of estradiol into the circulatory system .
the regulated release of a melanocyte - stimulating hormone ,  any of a group of peptide hormones that are produced by cells in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland ,  and stimulate the production of melanin to increase pigmentation .
the regulated release of calcitonin ,  a peptide hormone that participates in calcium and phosphorus metabolism ,  from a cell .
the regulated release of ghrelin from a cell .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
binding specifically to a substance  ( cargo )  to deliver it to a transport vesicle .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division ,  the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells ,  one or more of which usually function as gametes .
the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the bidirectional movement of large protein complexes along microtubules within a cilium ,  mediated by motor proteins .
an immune response which is associated with resistance to intracellular bacteria ,  fungi ,  and protozoa ,  and pathological conditions such as arthritis ,  and which is typically orchestrated by the production of particular cytokines by t - helper 1 cells ,  most notably interferon - gamma ,  il - 2 ,  and lymphotoxin .
an immune response which is associated with resistance to extracellular organisms such as helminths and pathological conditions such as allergy ,  which is orchestrated by the production of particular cytokines ,  most notably il - 4 ,  il - 5 ,  il - 10 ,  and il - 13 ,  by any of a variety of cell types including t - helper 2 cells ,  eosinophils ,  basophils ,  mast cells ,  and nuocytes ,  resulting in enhanced production of certain antibody isotypes and other effects .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized thymocyte acquires specialized features of a t - helper cell .
the expansion of a t cell population by cell division .
a protein complex that contains a disulfide - linked heterodimer of t cell receptor  ( tcr )  chains ,  which are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily ,  and mediates antigen recognition ,  ultimately resulting in t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
a t cell receptor complex in which the tcr heterodimer comprises alpha and beta chains ,  associated with the cd3 complex ;  recognizes a complex consisting of an antigen - derived peptide bound to a class i or class ii mhc protein .
a t cell receptor complex in which the tcr heterodimer comprises gamma and delta chains ,  associated with the cd3 complex ;  recognizes antigen directly ,  without a requirement for processing and presentation by an mhc protein .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed killing of a target cell by a natural killer cell through the release of granules containing cytotoxic mediators or through the engagement of death receptors .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with major histocompatibility complex molecules ;  a set of molecules displayed on cell surfaces that are responsible for lymphocyte recognition and antigen presentation .
the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential ,  the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any hormone ,  naturally occurring substances secreted by specialized cells that affects the metabolism or behavior of other cells possessing functional receptors for the hormone .
a tissue - specific ,  membrane - bounded cytoplasmic organelle within which melanin pigments are synthesized and stored .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a dentin - containing tooth over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tooth or teeth over time ,  from formation to the mature structure ( s )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages that are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic cell acquires specialized features of a gamma - delta t cell .
the enzymatic generation of superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species ,  by a cell in response to environmental stress ,  thereby mediating the activation of various stress - inducible signaling pathways .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
primary lysosomal granule found in neutrophil granulocytes .
a membrane - bounded ,  cytoplasmic secretory granule found in enzyme - secreting cells and visible by light microscopy .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a zymogen granule .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses a peptide antigen of exogenous origin on its cell surface in association with an mhc class i protein complex .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc alpha chain and ,  in most cases ,  either an mhc class ii beta chain or an invariant beta2 - microglobin chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide ,  lipid ,  or polysaccharide antigen .
a transmembrane protein complex composed of an mhc class ii alpha and mhc class ii beta chain ,  and with or without a bound peptide or polysaccharide antigen .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a muscle cell .
the type of sexual cycle seen in females ,  often with physiologic changes in the endometrium that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
the regulated release of progesterone ,  a steroid hormone ,  by the corpus luteum of the ovary and by the placenta .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur ,  the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
the process in which a monocyte acquires the specialized features of a dendritic cell ,  an immunocompetent cell of the lymphoid and hemopoietic systems and skin .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of structures in the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process involved in the maintenance of a steady - state level of the surface - active lipoprotein mixture which coats the alveoli .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction of the hindgut ,  the posterior part of the alimentary canal ,  including the rectum ,  and the large intestine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
interacting selectively and non - covalently with glycosphingolipid ,  a compound with residues of sphingoid and at least one monosaccharide .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring outside the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any protein complex that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the recognition and removal of an apoptotic cell by a neighboring cell or by a phagocyte .
fibers ,  composed of actin ,  myosin ,  and associated proteins ,  found in cells of smooth or striated muscle .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires specialized features of a mature cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
the process of sparing immature t cells which react with self - mhc protein complexes with low affinity levels from apoptotic death .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
the process in which a newly activated t cell acquires specialized features of a memory t cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of memory t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of memory t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of memory t cell differentiation .
a receptor complex found on immature t cells consisting of a t cell receptor beta chain and the pre - tcr - alpha chain ,  along with additional signaling components including cd3 family members and additional signaling proteins .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid ;  an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
the formation or growth of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone ,  involved in response to injury or other physical ,  physiological or environmental stress stimuli .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an endocrine process ,  a process involving the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a respiratory system process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
the process in which t cells that express t cell receptors that are restricted by self mhc protein complexes and tolerant to self antigens are selected for further maturation .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires the specialized features of a t - helper 1  ( th1 )  cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized t cell acquires specialized features of a t - helper 2  ( th2 )  cell .
innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone tissue loss  ( resorption )  .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets during m phase of the meiotic cell cycle .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the primary sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and randomly apportioned to two sets during the second division of the meiotic cell cycle .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
the switching of activated b cells from igm biosynthesis to biosynthesis of other isotypes of immunoglobulin ,  accomplished through a recombination process involving an intrachromosomal deletion involving switch regions that reside 5' of each constant region gene segment in the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
the junction between an axon of one neuron and a dendrite of another neuron ,  a muscle fiber or a glial cell .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the regulated release of juvenile hormones ,  the three sesquiterpenoid derivatives that function to maintain the larval state of insects at molting and that may be required for other processes ,  e .g .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an adipocyte ,  an animal connective tissue cell specialized for the synthesis and storage of fat .
the process in which specialized cells known as osteoclasts degrade the organic and inorganic portions of bone ,  and endocytose and transport the degradation products .
the regulated release of ecdysteroids ,  a group of polyhydroxylated ketosteroids which initiate post - embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of adipocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 1 cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 1 cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 1 cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 2 cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 2 cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t - helper 2 cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of basophil differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of basophil differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of basophil differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of eosinophil differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of eosinophil differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of eosinophil differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of macrophage differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of megakaryocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of monocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoblast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of osteoclast differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spermatid nuclear differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a cilium .
the phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ,  that occurs at fertilization .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of angiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases angiogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone resorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone resorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna recombination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of natural killer mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer cell mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of juvenile hormone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of juvenile hormone .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of ecdysteroid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of ecdysteroid .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the primary female sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structure .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with sphingolipids ,  a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the change in morphology and behavior of a gamma - delta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the change in morphology and behavior of an alpha - beta t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of an alpha - beta t cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of alpha - beta t cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the expansion of a lymphocyte population by cell division .
the establishment of the sex of a female organism by physical differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin .
the controlled release of acid by a cell or a tissue .
the continuous turnover of bone matrix and mineral that involves first ,  an increase in resorption  ( osteoclastic activity )  and later ,  reactive bone formation  ( osteoblastic activity )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling ,  the processes of bone formation and resorption that combine to maintain skeletal integrity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling .
the directed movement of isoprenoids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of terpenoids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the regulated release of hormones ,  substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hormones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a neurotransmitter .
the directed movement of carboxylic acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which an antigen - presenting cell expresses peptide antigen in association with an mhc protein complex on its cell surface ,  including proteolysis and transport steps for the peptide antigen both prior to and following assembly with the mhc protein complex .
the self - renewing division of a somatic stem cell ,  a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
the meiotic divisions undergone by the primary and secondary spermatocytes to produce haploid spermatids .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within the golgi apparatus ,  mediated by vesicles .
the process in which vesicles are directed to specific destination membranes during transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus ;  mediated by the addition of specific coat proteins ,  including copi and copii proteins and clathrin ,  to the membrane during vesicle formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or destination of vesicle - mediated transport to ,  from or within the golgi apparatus .
generation of the male gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a female gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the directed movement of epinephrine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the regulated release of epinephrine by a cell .
the regulated release of norepinephrine by a cell .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the switching of activated b cells from igm biosynthesis to ige biosynthesis ,  accomplished through a recombination process involving an intrachromosomal deletion between switch regions that reside 5' of the igm and ige constant region gene segments in the immunoglobulin heavy chain locus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to ige isotypes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to ige isotypes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of isotype switching to ige isotypes .
the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a b cell or plasma cell ,  whose mechanism includes the use of alternate polyadenylylation signals to favor the biosynthesis of secreted forms of immunoglobulin over membrane - bound immunoglobulin .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the complete process of formation and maturation of an ovum or female gamete from a primordial female germ cell .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process in which the anatomical structures of blood vessels are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spermatid over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of any organ involved in hematopoiesis  ( also known as hemopoiesis )  or lymphoid cell activation over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals from one or more parents ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of muscle development .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the process in which nerve cells are generated .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of cardiac muscle over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a small ,  subcellular membrane - bounded vesicle containing pigment and / or pigment precursor molecules .
the reorganization or renovation of existing tissues .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the multicellular organism .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells in a tissue .
any process involved in the maintenance of the internal steady state of the amount of a chemical at the level of the tissue .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
the regulated release of catecholamines by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of catecholamines .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
the multiplication or reproduction of epithelial cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis ,  the process in which phagocytes engulf external particulate material .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells in the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of insulin .
any process that modulates the frequency or amplitude of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation ,  the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cell adhesion molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation ,  the change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
the process that involves the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the movement of a leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the series of events involved in sensory perception in which a sensory stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events in which a chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events involved in visual perception in which a light stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a gustatory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of sound vibration in which the vibration is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of smell in which an olfactory chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of taste in which a gustatory chemical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a motile cell or organism in response to a specific chemical concentration gradient .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory temperature stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory light stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory mechanical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a temperature stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events in which a temperature stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of thermoception .
the series of events in which a temperature stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events in which a light stimulus is received by a cell and converted into a molecular signal as part of the sensory perception of light .
the series of events in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal as part of sensory perception .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a touch stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of touch in which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
the series of events by which a mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of immunoglobulins from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature natural killer t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of natural killer t cell activation .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a striated muscle cell ;  striated muscle fibers are divided by transverse bands into striations ,  and cardiac and voluntary muscle are types of striated muscle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cartilage element over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the process resulting in division and partitioning of components of a cell to form more cells ;  may or may not be accompanied by the physical separation of a cell into distinct ,  individually membrane - bounded daughter cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the physical partitioning and separation of a cell into daughter cells .
progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle ,  in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
the regulated release of corticotropin by a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of corticotropic hormone from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of corticotropic hormone from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of corticotropin hormone from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a neurotransmitter into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the series of events in which a stimulus is received by a cell or organism and converted into a molecular signal .
the directed movement of histamine into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process in which an organelle is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process in which a vesicle or vesicles are transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
the directed movement of a vesicle to a specific location .
the directed movement of an organelle to a specific location .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nitric - oxide synthase ,  an enzyme which catalyzes the reaction l - arginine  +  n nadph  +  n h +   +  m o2 = citrulline  +  nitric oxide  +  n nadp +  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nitric - oxide synthase enzyme .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nitric oxide synthase enzyme .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a nitric - oxide synthase enzyme .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a glycolipid ,  any compound containing one or more monosaccharide residues bound by a glycosidic linkage to a hydrophobic group such as an acylglycerol ,  a sphingoid ,  a ceramide  ( n - acylsphingoid )  or a prenyl phosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the vesicular release of  gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  .
the directed movement of catecholamines ,  a group of physiologically important biogenic amines that possess a catechol  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl )  nucleus and are derivatives of 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenylethylamine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amines into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of amino acids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamatergic synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to another neuron across a synapse using the neurotransmitter glutamate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
the process in which a cardiac muscle precursor cell acquires specialized features of a cardiac muscle cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle tissue development .
the process in which a solute is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the vesicular release of glycine from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of glycine receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the multicellular organismal process in which the heart decreases in volume in a characteristic way to propel blood through the body .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of epithelial cell proliferation ,  contributing to the restoration of integrity to a damaged tissue following an injury .
blood vessel formation when new vessels emerge from the proliferation of pre - existing blood vessels and contribute to the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that modulates the potential difference across a post - synaptic membrane .
a process that leads to a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
a process that causes a temporary decrease in postsynaptic membrane potential due to the flow of negatively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
the binding activity of a molecule that brings together two or more molecules through a selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric interaction ,  permitting those molecules to function in a coordinated way .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycinergic synaptic transmission .
any process that stops or decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycinergic synaptic transmission .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycinergic synaptic transmission .
the regulated release of serotonin by a cell ,  in which released serotonin acts as a neurotransmitter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
any process that decreases or stops the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined anatomical structure of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
the assembly of a cilium ,  a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
cell motility due to the motion of one or more eukaryotic cilia .
movement of cilia mediated by motor proteins that contributes to the movement of a cell .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of cilium movement involved in ciliary motility .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of blood vessel remodeling ,  the reorganization or renovation of existing blood vessels .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of blood vessel remodeling ,  the reorganization or renovation of existing blood vessels .
the directed movement of a motile cell guided by a specific chemical concentration gradient .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a mast cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of mast cell differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a mast cell .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mast cell differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a mast cell .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mast cell differentiation ,  the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a mast cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction of the hindgut ,  the posterior part of the alimentary canal ,  including the rectum ,  and the large intestine .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction of the hindgut ,  the posterior part of the alimentary canal ,  including the rectum ,  and the large intestine .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cell projection assembly .
the progression of muscle tissue over time ,  from its initial formation to its mature state .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an anatomical structure .
the process in which a mesenchymal cell ,  acquires specialized structural and / or functional features of a chondroblast .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of chromosome condensation ,  the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of microtubule - based movement ,  the movement of organelles ,  other microtubules and other particles along microtubules ,  mediated by motor proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation resulting in the maintenance of a steady - state number of cells within a tissue .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptosis that results in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation that contributes to the maintenance of a steady state of a cell type within a tissue .
the orderly movement of a cell from one site to another that will contribute to the progression of the heart over time ,  from its initial formation ,  to the mature organ .
the regulated release of a hormone into the circulatory system .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cartilage development ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cartilage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the progression of a muscle structure over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a receptor on the surface of a cell to a physiological ligand ,  which contributes to the progression of the heart over time .
the progression of a connective tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the progression of the reproductive system over time from its formation to the mature structure .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within a cilium .
the regulated release of acetylcholine by a cell .
the regulated release of dopamine by a cell in which the dopamine acts as a neurotransmitter .
the regulated release of norepinephrine by a cell ,  in which the norepinephrine acts as a neurotransmitter .
the regulated release of gamma - aminobutyric acid by a cell ,  in which the gamma - aminobutyric acid acts as a neurotransmitter .
the controlled release of glutamate by a cell ,  in which the glutamate acts as a neurotransmitter .
the controlled release of glycine by a cell .
the controlled release of glycine by a cell ,  in which glycine acts as a neurotransmitter .
the controlled release of histamine by a cell ,  in which the histamine acts as a neurotransmitter .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell in which the peptide acts as a neurotransmitter .
the controlled release of hypocretin from a cell or a tissue .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue in which the peptide acts as a neurotransmitter .
an immune response against microbes mediated by anti - microbial peptides in body fluid .
a process that coontributes to the second meiotic division .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that starts or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation during mitosis .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
the regulated release of glucagon from secretory granules in the a  ( alpha )  cells of the pancreas  ( islets of langerhans )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of glucagon .
a process of chromosome organization that is involved in a meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any apoptotic process in a lymphocyte ,  a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
the regulated release of somatostatin from secretory granules in the d cells of the pancreas .
the regulated release of mucus by the mucosa .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of mucus from a cell or a tissue .
the controlled release of molecules that form the extracellular matrix ,  including carbohydrates and glycoproteins by a cell .
the regulated release of prolactin ,  a peptide hormone that stimulates lactation ,  from secretory granules in the anterior pituitary .
the regulated release of thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  a peptide hormone that stimulates the activity of the thyroid gland ,  from secretory granules in the anterior pituitary .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cytoskeletal structures comprising microtubules and their associated proteins .
the expansion of a leukocyte population by cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
a secretory granule that contains cathepsin and gelatinase and is readily exocytosed upon cell activation ;  found primarily in mature neutrophil cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of bile acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of bile acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of bile acids .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an organelle .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a gravitational stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events involved in the perception of gravity in which a sensory mechanical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal .
a cellular process that results in a change in the spatial configuration of a dna molecule .
the movement of a granulocyte in response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of granulocyte chemotaxis .
the movement of a mononuclear cell within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of mononuclear cell migration .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mononuclear cell migration .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of mononuclear cell migration .
any process in which a protein is transported from one specific location in the extracellular region to another ,  or maintained in a specific extracellular location .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the appearance of any member of the tnf superfamily due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
the process in which immunoglobulin heavy chain v ,  d ,  and j gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
the process in which immunoglobulin light chain v and j gene segments are recombined within a single locus utilizing the conserved heptamer and nonomer recombination signal sequences  ( rss )  .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an igg isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an igg isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and present in the extracellular space ,  in mucosal areas or other tissues ,  or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igd isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igd isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and present in the extracellular space ,  in mucosal areas or other tissues ,  or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the ige isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the ige isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and present in the extracellular space ,  in mucosal areas or other tissues ,  or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the iga isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and sometimes complexed with j chain or j chain and secretory component .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an iga isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  sometimes complexed with j chain or j chain and secretory component ,  and present in the extracellular space ,  in mucosal areas or other tissues ,  or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igm isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and in its circulating form complexed with j chain in polymeric forms .
a polymer of five or six igm core units each composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igm isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ;  the individual igm core units are held together via disulfide bonds with a single j chain polypeptide acting as a bridge between two of the polymeric units .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
any apoptotic process in a leukocyte ,  an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
a nitrogen compound metabolic process that contributes to the nitrogen cycle .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form an extracellular vesicular exosome ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  (  - cooh )  group .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the circulatory system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a reactive oxygen species ,  any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of fertilization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of neutrophil chemotaxis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of monocyte chemotaxis .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of monocyte chemotaxis .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of monocyte chemotaxis .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a muscle system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in a muscle system .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  extent of the regulated release of somatostatin from secretory granules in the d cells of the pancreas .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  extent of the regulated release of somatostatin from secretory granules in the d cells of the pancreas .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  extent of the regulated release of somatostatin from secretory granules in the d cells of the pancreas .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of superoxide metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
any process that prevents the establishment or decreases the extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  which is a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
the immediate defensive reaction by vertebrate tissue to injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process of the immune system that can contribute to the formation of immunological memory or an immune response based upon activation of immunological memory .
any immunological memory process that can contribute to the formation of immunological memory .
all of the contents of a cilium ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the cilium .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a dendritic cell .
a specialized area of membrane on either the presynaptic or the postsynaptic side of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of inhibitory postsynaptic potential  ( ipsp )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the formation of tooth enamel ,  occurring in two stages: secretory stage and maturation stage .
a stage of the apoptotic process that starts with the controlled breakdown of the cell through the action of effector caspases or other effector molecules  ( e .g .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a carbohydrate derivative .
the movement of a myeloid leukocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
the movement of a granulocyte within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
any vesicle that is part of the intracellular region .
the process in which vesicles formed at the trans - golgi network are directed to the plasma membrane surrounding the base of the cilium ,  including the ciliary pocket ,  mediated by molecules at the vesicle membrane and target membrane surfaces .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a sperm cell .
the assembly and secretion of an extracellular exosome ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region by fusion of the limiting endosomal membrane of a multivesicular body with the plasma membrane .
nucleus with two or more lobes connected by a thin filament that contains no internal chromatin .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of another organism that act to protect the cell or organism from damage caused by that organism .
the lipid bilayer that forms the outer - most layer of an organelle .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on a cell surface to an adhesion molecule on another cell surface ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to another cell .
the process in which an anion is transported across a membrane .
any process that reduces or removes the toxicity of a toxic substance .
the part of a synapse that is part of the presynaptic cell .
the part of a synapse that is part of the post - synaptic cell .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by the renal system .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane and which functions as a signaling receptor .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of nuclear chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of inhibitory postsynaptic potential  ( ipsp )  .
the directed movement of a protein along a microtubule ,  mediated by motor proteins .
a cell projection supported by an assembly of actin filaments ,  and which lacks microtubules .
the actin cytoskeleton that is part of a postsynapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
cell - cell signaling from pre to post - synapse ,  across the synaptic cleft .
synaptic transmission that results in an excitatory postsynaptic potential .
synaptic transmission that results in an inhibitory postsynaptic potential .
any vesicle - mediated transport that occurs in a synapse .
a cellular component that consists of an indeterminate number of proteins or macromolecular complexes ,  organized into a regular ,  higher - order structure such as a polymer ,  sheet ,  network or a fiber .
a polymeric supramolecular structure .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of organelles ,  other microtubules ,  or other cellular components .
a microtubule - based process that results in the transport of proteins .
the regulated release of dopamine from an axon .
the actin cytoskeleton that is part of a presynapse .
any process ,  acting in the postsynapse that results in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission .
any process ,  acting in the presynapse that results in modulation of chemical synaptic transmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trans - synaptic signaling .
the component of the synaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having either part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane or some other covalently attached group such as a gpi anchor that is similarly embedded in the membrane .
a cytoplasmic ,  membrane bound vesicle that is capable of fusing to the plasma membrane to release its contents into the extracellular space .
a polymer consisting of an indefinite number of protein or protein complex subunits that have polymerised to form a fiber - shaped structure .
a component of the cytoskeleton consisting of a homo or heteropolymeric fiber constructed from an indeterminate number of protein subunits .
the pathway leading to secretion of a neurotransmitter from the presynapse as part of synaptic transmission .
cell - cell signaling to ,  from or within a synapse .
cell - cell signaling in either direction across the synaptic cleft .
cell - cell signaling between presynapse and postsynapse ,  across the synaptic cleft ,  that modulates the synaptic transmission properties of the synapse .
the part of synaptic transmission occurring in the post - synapse: a signal transduction pathway consisting of neurotransmitter receptor activation and its effects on postsynaptic membrane potential and the ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm .
the portion of the cytoskeleton contained within the presynapse .
the portion of the cytoskeleton contained within the postsynapse .
any signal release from a synapse .
the component of the synaptic membrane consisting of the gene products and protein complexes having at least some part of their peptide sequence embedded in the hydrophobic region of the membrane .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
formation of a prolongation or process extending and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane bounded cell projection assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of plasma membrane bounded cell projections .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a plasma membrane bounded prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded neuron projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of bile acid from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of bile acid from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of bile acid from a cell or a tissue .
one of the two nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a mitotic cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
the assembly and secretion a set of components to form an extracellular vesicule ,  a membrane - bounded vesicle that is released into the extracellular region .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which the presynapse take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which the postsynapse take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
the directed movement of some substance from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
the directed movement of a lipid from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in a cell to initiate an immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytokine production involved in inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any regulation of signal transduction that takes place in the extracellular region .
any negative regulation of signal transduction that takes place in extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of execution phase of apoptosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of renin secretion into blood stream .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of renin secretion into blood stream .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of renin secretion into blood stream .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative .
any gene expression that is involved in extracellular matrix organization .
the directed movement of a carbohydrate derivative into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
the directed movement of an acetate ester into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hematopoietic progenitor cell differentiation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic hydroxy compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle tissue development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of flagellated sperm motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of organelle assembly .
any apoptotic process that is involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neutrophil migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of prolactin secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of prolactin secretion .
any apoptotic process that is involved in anatomical structure development .
any microtubule cytoskeleton organization that is involved in mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
a process that is part of the meiotic cell cycle .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular matrix organization .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a mononuclear cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate secretion ,  neurotransmission .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate secretion ,  neurotransmission .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glutamate secretion ,  where glutamate acts as a neurotransmitter .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nitrogen cycle metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nucleus organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mucopolysaccharide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of extracellular vesicular exosome assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tumor necrosis factor superfamily cytokine production .
any vesicle that is part of the extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to cilium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of respiratory gaseous exchange .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of respiratory gaseous exchange .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any cytoplasm that is part of a axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bleb assembly .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bile acid metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bile acid metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bile acid metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcitonin secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcitonin secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of calcitonin secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretory granule organization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycine secretion ,  neurotransmission .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycine secretion ,  neurotransmission .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycine secretion ,  neurotransmission .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of somatic stem cell division .
any membrane - enclosed lumen that is part of a tertiary granule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any cell surface receptor signaling pathway that is involved in cell - cell signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of photosynthesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of photosynthesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitotic chromosome condensation .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a ciliary transition zone .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fertilization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of detection of mechanical stimulus involved in sensory perception of touch .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gonad development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
the movement of a neutrophil within or between different tissues and organs of the body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of stem cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cilium - dependent cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of female gonad development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of female gonad development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of female gonad development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic cell clearance .
any process that enhances the establishment or increases the extent of the excitatory postsynaptic potential  ( epsp )  which is a temporary increase in postsynaptic potential due to the flow of positively charged ions into the postsynaptic cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel remodeling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of thyroid - stimulating hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of thyroid - stimulating hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of thyroid - stimulating hormone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of androgen secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of testosterone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of testosterone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of testosterone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of corticosteroid hormone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucocorticoid secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mineralocorticoid secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mineralocorticoid secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mineralocorticoid secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of estradiol secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of estradiol secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of estradiol secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of progesterone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of progesterone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progesterone secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation involved in immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation involved in immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gamma - delta t cell activation involved in immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendritic cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendritic cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dendritic cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a time quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's expected maximum age .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a quality in which events occur in sequence .
a quality of a single physical entity which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits a state of growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's number of homologous sets of chromosomes in the nucleus or primary chromosome - containing compartment of the cell ,  each set essentially coding for all the biological traits of the organism .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing a single set of homologous chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing an integral multiple of the monoploid number ,  possibly excluding the sex - determining chromosomes .
a ploidy quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two copies  ( homologs )  of each chromosome ,  usually one from the mother and one from the father .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality that arises by virtue of whether the bearer's disposition to differentiate into one or more mature cell types .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to produce only one differentiated cell type .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to form multiple differentiated cell types of a specific lineage and lack self renewing capacity .
a cellular potency that is the capacity to form multiple differentiated cell types .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having thin ,  tail - like projections extending outwards from the cell body .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by narrow lines or grooves ,  usually parallel .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking complete growth ,  differentiation ,  or development .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a curvature which is relatively high .
a curvature which is relatively low .
a life span which is relatively high .
a life span which is relatively low .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a shape resembling a dome .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having the shape of a kidney .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently - sized round cross section .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being cylindrical ,  in which the height is less than the diameter .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape of features present on its surface or outer shell .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter's disposition the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward on both sides or surfaces .
a molecular quality that arises from the molecular attraction exerted between two atoms or compounds .
an affinity which is relatively high .
an affinity which is relatively low .
an affinity inhering in a tissue constituent by virtue of the bearer exhibiting a molecular interaction for basic dyes under specific ph conditions .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to progress ,  invade surrounding tissues or metastasize .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by narrow lines or grooves ,  usually parallel ,  that are oriented transversely relative to the long axis of the bearer .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by narrow lines or grooves ,  usually parallel ,  that are oriented obliquely relative to the long axis of the bearer .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not having undulating edges forming lobes .
a quality of an object that has a value that is normal or average .
an affinity which is relatively normal or average .
a curvature which is relatively normal or average .
a life span which is relatively normal or average .
a size quality which is relatively normal or average
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna ,  and any derivatives thereof .
a transient receptor potential channel protein that is a member of the subfamily c of the transient receptor potential cation channels  ( trps )  ,  with amino -  and carboxyl - terminal intracellular domains separated by a domain  ( common with other ion channels )  containing six transmembrane helices  ( s1 - s6 )  in which the last two helices  ( s5 and s6 )  flank a loop ,  called the pore loop ,  which determines ion selectivity .
a transient receptor potential cation channel trpc that is a member of a subgroup of subfamily c containing the very similar trpc3 ,  trpc6 ,  and trpc7 .
a transient receptor potential cation channel trpc3 / 6 / 7 that is a translation product of the human trpc3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd19 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd34 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an integrin alpha that contains an a domain .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ptprc gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an integrin alpha with a domain that is a translation product of the human itga2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an integrin alpha with a domain that is a translation product of the human itgae gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an integrin alpha with a domain that is a translation product of the human itgam gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an integrin alpha with a domain that is a translation product of the human itgax gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c that is a translation product of a mature transcript of the ptprc gene ,  that includes the region encoded by the variable exons 4 ( a )  ,  5 ( b )  ,  and 6 ( c )  .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45r that is a translation product of a mature transcript of the ptprc gene ,  that includes the region encoded by the variable exon 4 ( a )  ,  and lacks the region encoded by exons 5 ( b )  and 6 ( c )  .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c that is a translation product of a mature transcript of the ptprc gene ,  that lacks the region encoded by the variable exons 4 ( a )  ,  5 ( b )  ,  and 6 ( c )  .
a protein with a core domain composition consisting of an extracellular n - terminal domain that adopts an immunoglobulin fold ,  a transmembrane domain ,  and an intracellular c - terminal domain with a single copy of the immunoreceptor tyrosine - based activation motif  ( pfam:pf02189 )   ( itam )  .
a cd3 subunit with immunoglobulin domain that is a translation product of the human cd3e gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with a domain composition consisting of a large extracellular domain ,  including five ig - like c2 - type domains followed by two copies of the fibronectin type - iii domain  ( pfam:pf00041 )  ,  a single - pass transmembrane domain and a short cytoplasmic c - terminal domain .
a neural cell adhesion molecule that is involved in neuronal development ,  synaptic plasticity ,  and regeneration .
a neural cell adhesion molecule ncam that is a translation product of the human ncam1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a type i transmembrane receptor with an n - terminal cysteine - rich domain ,  a single fibronectin type ii  ( fnii )  domain  ( pfam:pf00040 )  and eight to ten copies of the lectin c - type domain  ( pfam:pf00059 )   ( ctlds )  .
a c - type lectin with multiple lectin domains that is a translation product of the human ly75 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd8a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd8b gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a g - protein coupled receptor with a 7 transmembrane  ( secretin family )  domain  ( pfam:pf00002 )  preceded by an amino - terminal region containing one or more functional domains with adhesion - like motifs .
a g - protein coupled receptor that contains the 7 transmembrane receptor  ( rhodopsin family )  domain  ( pfam:pf00001 )  ,  which includes 7 transmembrane helices  ( tmi - tm7 )  with 3 intracellular loops  ( il1 - il3 )  and 3 extracellular loops  ( el1 - el3 )  between the helices .
a rhodopsin - like g - protein coupled receptor that in active form binds to one or more chemokines .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human ccr1 or ccr3 genes ,  the mouse ccr1l1 gene ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  or a semi - ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human ccr2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human ccr4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human ccr5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human ccr6 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human ccr7 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human cx3cr1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human cxcr3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human cxcr4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor that is a translation product of the human cxcr5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor whose active form binds interleukin - 8 with high affinity .
a chemokine receptor ccr1 / 3 / 1l that is a translation product of the human ccr1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a chemokine receptor ccr1 / 3 / 1l that is a translation product of the human ccr3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a high affinity interleukin - 8 receptor that is a translation product of the human cxcr1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a high affinity interleukin - 8 receptor that is a translation product of the human cxcr2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that contains the adp - ribosyl cyclase domain  ( pfam:pf02267 )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd22 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ms4a1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a member of a family that includes translation products of genes cd86 ,  cd276 ,  icoslg ,  and others .
a protein that is a translation product of the human clec4c gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd207 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd209 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd44 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd48 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd83 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human sell gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd84 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a stand alone version of the glycosyltransferase family 10  ( fucosyltransferase )   ( pfam:pf00852 )  domain .
a protein that is a translation product of the human bst2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that has a core domain structure of signal sequence ,  propeptide ,  five cadherin domains  ( pfam:pf00028 )  ,  a transmembrane region ,  and a cadherin cytoplasmic region  ( pfam:pf01049 )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ceacam8 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cr1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cr2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd69 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human enpp3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human eng gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human foxp3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that contains an extracellular glycophorin a domain  ( pfam:pf01102 )  ,  followed by a single - pass transmembrane region and a small intracellular domain .
a protein with a core domain architecture consisting of an extracellular domain containing two copies of the immunoglobulin domain  ( pfam:pf00047 )  ,  followed by a single - pass transmembrane region and a small intracellular domain .
a protein with a core domain architecture consisting of an extracellular domain containing two or three copies of the immunoglobulin domain  ( pfam:pf00047 )  ,  followed by a single - pass transmembrane region and a small intracellular domain .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il2ra gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il2rb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a leukocyte immunoglobulin - like receptor subfamily member that is a translation product of the human lilra4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human klrd1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with four transmembrane domains ,  small intracellular amino -  and carboxyl - terminal regions ,  and two extracellular loops ,  a small one  ( ec1 )  and a larger one  ( ec2 )  of about 100 residues .
an adp - ribosyl cyclase that is a translation product of the human cd38 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a b7 - related protein that is a translation product of the human cd86 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a rhodopsin - like g - protein coupled receptor that is a translation product of the human fpr1 ,  fpr2 ,  or fpr3 genes ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  or a semi - ortholog thereof .
a b7 - related protein that is a translation product of the human cd80 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a cadherin that is a translation product of the human cdh5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a cadherin that is a translation product of the human cdh1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an alpha -  ( 1 , 3 )  - fucosyltransferase that is a translation product of the human fut4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a glycophorin that is a translation product of the human gypa gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor i that is a translation product of the human fcgr1a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor ii / iii / iv that is a translation product of the mouse fcgr2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor ii / iii / iv that is a translation product of the human fcgr2b gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor ii / iii / iv that is a translation product of the mouse fcgr3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a prostanoid receptor that is a translation product of the human ptgdr2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a rhodopsin - like g - protein coupled receptor that is a translation product of the human ptgdr ,  ptgdr2 ,  ptger1 to ptger4 ,  ptgfr ,  ptgir ,  or tbxa2r genes ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  or a semi - ortholog thereof .
an n - formyl peptide receptor that is a translation product of the human fpr1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with a core domain composition consisting of a rel homology domain  ( rhd )   ( pfam:pf00554 )  ,  an ipt / tig domain  ( pfam:pf01833 )  ,  six copies of the ankyrin repeat  ( pfam:pf00023 )  ,  a death domain  ( pfam:pf00531 )  and a c - terminal pest region .
a protein with core architecture consisting of one prominin  ( pfam:pf05478 )  domain .
a prominin that is a translation product of the human prom1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human nt5e gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human clec6a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human clec7a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd59 gene ,  a 1:1 ortholog thereof ,  or pro - orthologs thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of asignal sequence ,  5 ig - like domains ,  followed by a transmembrane sequence ,  followed by a protein tyrosine kinase domain  ( pfam:pf07714 )  .
an adhesion g - protein coupled receptor that is a translation product of the human adgre1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a signal sequence ,  a class ii histocompatibility antigen ,  alpha domain  ( pfam:pf00993 )  and an immunoglobulin c1 - set domain  ( pfam:pf07654 )  ;  these form the extracellular domain and are followed by a single - pass transmembrane region and a small cytoplasmic region .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a signal sequence ,  one immunoglobulin v - set domain  ( pfam:pf07686 )  ,  two immunoglobulin c1 - set domains  ( pfam:pf07654 )  ,  a single - pass transmembrane region and a very small cytoplasmic region .
a protein that is a translation product of the human slamf1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human tbx21 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd7 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a signal sequence ,  an extracellular region with class i histocompatibility antigen ,  domains alpha 1 and alpha two  ( pfam:pf00129 )  and an immunoglobulin c1 - set domain  ( pfam:pf07654 )  ,  a single - pass transmembrane region ,  and a very short cytoplasmic region .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd28 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human thy1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human arg1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a cathepsin - like protease that is a translation product of the human ctsk gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ctla4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human vpreb1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human igll1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human icos gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a large extracellular region containing one integrin ,  beta chain domain  ( pfam:pf00362 )  ,  up to four egf - like domains  ( pfam:pf07974 )  ,  and an integrin beta tail domain  ( pfam:pf07965 )  ,  followed by a single - pass transmembrane region and a small cytoplasmic region often containing an integrin beta cytoplasmic domain  ( pfam:pf08725 )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il3ra gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il5ra gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il7r gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the klrb1 gene or its closely related paralogs  ( klrb1a - f )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the human spn gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human fcer2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a lysosome - associated membrane glycoprotein  ( pfam:pf01299 )  domain .
a protein that is a translation product of the human marco gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human msr1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a peptidase family m1 domain  ( pfam:pf01433 )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd14 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd33 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ncr1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ncr2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd244 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of an as yet unnamed domain in the amino - terminal half and a carboxyl - terminal lectin c - type domain  ( pfam:pf00059 )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the human mme gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human rorc gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human pax5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd36 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gp1ba gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human pdcd1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd163 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human siglec5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human siglec1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd24 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human sdc1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human acp5 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a signal sequence ,  a lectin c - type domain  ( pfam:pf00059 )  ,  5 or 6 egf - like domains  ( pfam:pf00008 ,  pfam:pf09064 ,  or pfam:pf07645 )  ,  a transmembrane region ,  and a small cytoplasmic region  ( 36 - 51 amino acids )  .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gata3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human spi1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human tfrc gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd40lg gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human tnfrsf11a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cd27 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a sirp / shps - 1 family protein that is a translation product of the human sirpa gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human plaur gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein with core architecture consisting of a signal sequence ,  followed by 7 ig - like domains  ( pfam:pf00047 ,  pfam:pf07679 ,  or pfam:pf07686 )  ,  a transmembrane region ,  and a cytoplasmic protein tyrosine kinase domain .
a csf - 1 / pdgf receptor - type tyrosine - protein kinase that is a translation product of the human flt3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an mhc class ii histocompatibility antigen alpha chain that is a translation product of the human hla - dra gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a natural killer cell receptor nkg2 that is a translation product of the human klrc1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1 that is a translation product of the human cd1a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1 that is a translation product of the human cd1c gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1 that is a translation product of the human cd1d gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a membrane alanyl aminopeptidase - like metallopeptidase that is a translation product of the human anpep gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a thrombomodulin - like receptor that is a translation product of the human cd93 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a membrane alanyl aminopeptidase - like metallopeptidase that is a translation product of the human enpep gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a csf - 1 / pdgf receptor - type tyrosine - protein kinase that is a translation product of the human csf1r gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a lysosome - associated membrane protein that is a translation product of the human cd68 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a csf - 1 / pdgf receptor - type tyrosine - protein kinase that is a translation product of the human kit gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a thrombomodulin - like receptor that is a translation product of the human thbd gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor that is a translation product of the human kdr gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a c - type lectin with multiple lectin domains that is a translation product of the human mrc1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is the translation product of any of the ly6 genes  ( ly6a - ly6i )  .
a klrb1 - like protein that is a translation product of the mouse klrb1c gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an ly - 6 - like protein that is a translation product of the mouse ly6g gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an ly - 6 - like protein that is a translation product of the mouse ly6a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an ly - 6 - like protein that is a translation product of the mouse ly6c2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the ly76 gene in mouse .
a protein that is a translation product of the human bcl6 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a nuclear receptor ror - gamma that is a translation product of some mrna giving rise to a protein with the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p51450 - 2 or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human rag1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human rag2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a t - brain transcription factor that is a translation product of the human eomes gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human prf1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human egr2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a leukocyte granule - associated proteinase that is a translation product of the human gzmb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a serine protease of the granules from mast cells ,  cytotoxic t lymphocytes and / or natural killer cells .
a protein that contains one copy of the t - box domain  ( pfam:pf00907 )  and it is involved in the anterior neural specification .
a protein that is a translation product of the human a4galt gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a tetraspanin that is a translation product of the human cd9 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cebpa gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cebpe gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the mouse cd200r3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the mouse cd209b gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human dntt gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human epx gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor ii / iii / iv that is a translation product of the human fcer1a gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human fos gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gata1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gata2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gfap gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human hbb gene ,  a 1:1 ortholog thereof ,  or pro - orthologs thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human hbz gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a beta - globin that is a translation product of the mouse hbb - b1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il17rb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human il1rl1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an integrin alpha lacking a domain that is a translation product of the human itga2b gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an integrin alpha lacking a domain that is a translation product of the human itga4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an integrin beta that is a translation product of the human itgb7 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human klrg1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the mouse klra1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the mouse klra3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the mouse klra4 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the mouse klra8 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human lcn2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human lgals1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human lhx3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ltf gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human mertk gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human mpo gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human myb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human neto1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a transcription factor nf - kappa - b subunit that is a translation product of the human nfkb2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ntng1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human prg2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human rnase2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human rnase3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human runx1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human tal1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human tmed1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an organic amino compound that consists of amino acid residues  ( unmodified amino - acid residues and / or modified amino - acid residues )  linked by peptide bonds or derivatives of such bonds .
a cd19 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd34 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd4 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - 2 that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - e that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - m that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - x that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd3 epsilon that has had the signal peptide removed .
a neural cell adhesion molecule 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a lymphocyte antigen 75 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd2 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 alpha chain that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 beta chain that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd48 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd83 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
an l - selectin that has had the signal peptide removed .
a slam family member 5 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a carcinoembryonic antigen - related cell adhesion molecule 8 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a complement receptor type 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a complement receptor type 2 that has had the signal peptide removed .
an endoglin that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 2 receptor subunit alpha that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 2 receptor subunit beta that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd80 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a glycophorin - a that has had the signal peptide removed .
a high affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor i that has had the signal peptide removed .
a low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor ii that has had the signal peptide removed .
a 5' - nucleotidase that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd7 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd5 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell - specific surface glycoprotein cd28 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a thy - 1 membrane glycoprotein that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 5 receptor subunit alpha that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 7 receptor subunit alpha that has had the signal peptide removed .
a leukosialin that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd14 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a natural killer cell receptor 2b4 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a platelet glycoprotein ib alpha chain that has had the signal peptide removed .
a sialoadhesin that has had the signal peptide removed .
a signal transducer cd24 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase type 5 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd27 molecule that has had the signal peptide removed .
a tyrosine - protein phosphatase non - receptor type substrate 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a urokinase plasminogen activator surface receptor that has had the signal peptide removed .
an mhc class ii histocompatibility antigen alpha chain dra that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1a that has had the signal peptide removed .
an antigen - presenting glycoprotein cd1d that has had the signal peptide removed .
a complement component c1q receptor that has had the signal peptide removed .
a thrombomodulin that has had the signal peptide removed .
a lymphocyte antigen 6a - 2 / 6e - 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a lymphocyte antigen 6c2 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a perforin - 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a high affinity immunoglobulin epsilon receptor subunit alpha that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 17 receptor b that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 1 receptor - like 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - iib that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - 4 that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin beta - 7 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a neutrophil gelatinase - associated lipocalin that has had the signal peptide removed .
a lactotransferrin that has had the signal peptide removed .
a myeloperoxidase that has had the signal peptide removed .
a netrin - g1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a bone marrow proteoglycan that has had the signal peptide removed .
a non - secretory ribonuclease that has had the signal peptide removed .
an eosinophil cationic protein that has had the signal peptide removed .
a part of a protein that is removed during the protein maturation process .
a bone marrow proteoglycan that is a translation product of some mrna giving rise to a protein with the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p13727 - 1 or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a bone marrow proteoglycan isoform 1 ,  signal peptide removed form that has had the acidic propeptide removed .
a protein complex that is a membrane - bound heterodimeric co - receptor for mhc class - i antigen / t - cell receptor interaction .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 alpha chain that is a translation product of some mrna giving rise to a protein with the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p01732 - 1 or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 beta chain that is a translation product of some mrna giving rise to a protein with the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p10966 - 1 or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 alpha chain isoform 1 that has had the signal peptide removed to yield the mature form .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 beta chain isoform 1 that has had the signal peptide removed to yield the mature form .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 alpha chain isoform 1 ,  signal peptide removed form that includes at least one glycosylated residue .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 beta chain isoform 1 ,  signal peptide removed form that includes at least one glycosylated residue .
a bone marrow proteoglycan isoform 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
an organic group that results from covalent modification or chemical alteration to the side chain or backbone atoms of an amino acid residue or derivative thereof ,  where such alteration maintains the integrity of the amino acid chain containing the residue .
a klrb1 - like protein that is a translation product of the human klrb1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is composed of a long n - terminal extracellular domain ,  a transmembrane domain and a short cytoplasmic c - terminal domain .
an integrin alpha that lacks an a domain .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45rabc that has had the signal peptide removed .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45ra that has had the signal peptide removed .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45ro that has had the signal peptide removed .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45rabc ,  signal peptide removed form that includes at least one glycosylated residue .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45ra ,  signal peptide removed form that includes at least one glycosylated residue .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45ro ,  signal peptide removed form that includes at least one glycosylated residue .
a transmembrane emp24 domain - containing protein 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a granzyme b that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - e ,  signal peptide removed form in human .
a t - cell - specific surface glycoprotein cd28 ,  signal peptide removed form in human .
an integrin alpha - m ,  signal peptide removed form in human .
an integrin alpha - iib ,  signal peptide removed form in human .
a cd4 molecule ,  signal peptide removed form in human .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of mus musculus .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of homo sapiens .
a protein that is a translation product of the human irx6 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that has g protein - coupled receptor  ( gpcr )  activity .
a lymphocyte antigen 75 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of some eukaryota .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a protein that includes at least one glycosylated residue .
a protein that is a translation product of some metazoan gene that encodes a signal peptide followed by a single cathepsin propeptide inhibitor domain  ( pfam:pf08246 )  followed by a single papain family cysteine protease  ( pfam:pf00112 )  domain at the c terminus .
an ion channel protein that has voltage - gated ion channel activity .
a voltage - gated ion channel protein that is a translation product of the human trpc1 ,  trpm1 ,  trpv1 ,  trpa1 ,  trpp1 or trpml1 gene ,  paralogs thereof ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  a semi - ortholog thereof ,  or pro - orthologs thereof .
a protein that has channel activity .
a tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase type 5  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 7  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a scavenger receptor cysteine - rich type 1 protein m130  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a b - lymphocyte antigen cd19  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1a  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1c  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an antigen - presenting glycoprotein cd1d  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface antigen cd2  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a b - cell receptor cd22  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a natural killer cell receptor 2b4  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd27 antigen  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a myeloid cell surface antigen cd33  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd3 epsilon chain  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cd44 antigen  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - lymphocyte activation antigen cd80  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a slam family member 5  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - lymphocyte activation antigen cd86  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 alpha chain  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 beta chain  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a complement receptor type 1  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a macrophage colony - stimulating factor 1 receptor  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a cytotoxic t - lymphocyte protein 4  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a high affinity immunoglobulin epsilon receptor subunit alpha  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a high affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor i  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor ii - b  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein kinase flt3  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 17 receptor b  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 1 receptor - like 1  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 2 receptor subunit alpha  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 2 receptor subunit beta  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 3 receptor subunit alpha  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 5 receptor subunit alpha  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an interleukin - 7 receptor subunit alpha  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - 2  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - 4  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
an integrin alpha - x  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a mast / stem cell growth factor receptor kit  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a neutrophil gelatinase - associated lipocalin  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a leukocyte immunoglobulin - like receptor subfamily a member 4  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a lactotransferrin  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a tyrosine - protein kinase mer  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a macrophage mannose receptor 1  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a neural cell adhesion molecule 1  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a natural cytotoxicity triggering receptor 1  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a natural cytotoxicity triggering receptor 2  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a programmed cell death protein 1  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a urokinase plasminogen activator surface receptor  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a syndecan - 1  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a sialoadhesin  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a sialic acid - binding ig - like lectin 5  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a tyrosine - protein phosphatase non - receptor type substrate 1  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a leukosialin  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a thrombomodulin  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 11a  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a channel protein that has ion channel activity .
an immunoglobulin complex whose components are encoded in the genome of human .
an igd immunoglobulin complex whose components are encoded in the genome of human .
an igd immunoglobulin complex ,  circulating in human .
a protein that is a translation product of some mrna produced by a somatically recombined immunoglobulin heavy chain locus .
a protein that is a translation product of some mrna produced by a somatically recombined immunoglobulin light chain locus .
an immunoglobulin light chain protein that is produced from the immunoglobulin kappa locus .
an immunoglobulin light chain protein that is produced from the immunoglobulin lambda locus .
an immunoglobulin light chain protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
an ig kappa light chain protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
an ig lambda light chain protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
an immunoglobulin heavy chain protein in which the constant region is encoded by the igd gene segment .
an igd heavy chain protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c that is a translation product of a mature transcript of the ptprc gene ,  that minimally includes the region encoded by the variable exon 4 ( a )  .
an mhc class ii histocompatibility antigen alpha chain dra that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an endothelial transcription factor gata - 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase / phosphodiesterase family member 3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a sialic acid - binding ig - like lectin 5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 11a that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a platelet glycoprotein ib alpha chain that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a prominin - 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 6 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor subfamily d member 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an eomesodermin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a prominin - 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a natural cytotoxicity triggering receptor 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd83 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor subfamily g member 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a complement component c1q receptor that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an eomesodermin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a natural cytotoxicity triggering receptor 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a proto - oncogene c - fos that is encoded in the genome of human .
a proto - oncogene c - fos that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an interleukin - 2 receptor subunit alpha that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 2 receptor subunit alpha that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd4 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 alpha chain that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 alpha chain that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 alpha chain isoform 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a thy - 1 membrane glycoprotein that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an mhc class ii histocompatibility antigen alpha chain dra that is encoded in the genome of human .
a hemoglobin subunit zeta that is encoded in the genome of human .
a hemoglobin subunit beta - 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a glycophorin - a that is encoded in the genome of human .
a transferrin receptor protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a lactotransferrin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a glial fibrillary acidic protein that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a dna nucleotidylexotransferase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a thy - 1 membrane glycoprotein that is encoded in the genome of human .
an arginase - 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a myeloperoxidase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a mast / stem cell growth factor receptor that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a lymphocyte antigen 6a - 2 / 6e - 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - m that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1a that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd4 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a hemoglobin subunit zeta that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd2 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a low affinity immunoglobulin epsilon fc receptor that is encoded in the genome of human .
a myb proto - oncogene protein that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a thrombomodulin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a macrophage colony - stimulating factor 1 receptor that is encoded in the genome of human .
a platelet glycoprotein ib alpha chain that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd3 epsilon that is encoded in the genome of human .
a lactotransferrin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor ii that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an early growth response protein 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a neprilysin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor iii that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - iib that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd14 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c that is encoded in the genome of human .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45rabc that is encoded in the genome of human .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45ro that is encoded in the genome of human .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein phosphatase c isoform cd45ra that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd2 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd48 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a galectin - 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd7 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a macrophage colony - stimulating factor 1 receptor that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cytotoxic t - lymphocyte protein 4 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cadherin - 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a dna nucleotidylexotransferase that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a lymphocyte antigen 6c2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a granzyme b that is encoded in the genome of human .
a non - secretory ribonuclease that is encoded in the genome of human .
a myb proto - oncogene protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 beta chain that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a mast / stem cell growth factor receptor that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell - specific surface glycoprotein cd28 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd14 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a perforin - 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 beta chain that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd8 beta chain isoform 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an early growth response protein 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an integrin alpha - m that is encoded in the genome of human .
a myeloperoxidase that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an antigen - presenting glycoprotein cd1d that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a neutrophil gelatinase - associated lipocalin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an eosinophil peroxidase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a membrane - spanning 4 - domains subfamily a member 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an immunoglobulin iota chain that is encoded in the genome of human .
a high affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor i that is encoded in the genome of human .
a high affinity immunoglobulin epsilon receptor subunit alpha that is encoded in the genome of human .
an eosinophil cationic protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cadherin - 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd5 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a neural cell adhesion molecule 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a neural cell adhesion molecule 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - 4 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase type 5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a bone marrow proteoglycan that is encoded in the genome of human .
a bone marrow proteoglycan isoform 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a glial fibrillary acidic protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
an l - selectin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a perforin - 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 1 receptor - like 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an interleukin - 2 receptor subunit beta that is encoded in the genome of human .
an aminopeptidase n that is encoded in the genome of human .
a thrombomodulin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd44 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd19 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a leukosialin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an antigen - presenting glycoprotein cd1d that is encoded in the genome of human .
an immunoglobulin lambda - like polypeptide 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a v ( d ) j recombination - activating protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a v ( d ) j recombination - activating protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an erythroid transcription factor that is encoded in the genome of human .
a galectin - 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd44 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a leukosialin that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 2 receptor subunit beta that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a glutamyl aminopeptidase that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cytotoxic t - lymphocyte protein 4 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a platelet glycoprotein 4 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 7 receptor subunit alpha that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 7 receptor subunit alpha that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a transcription factor pu .1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a t - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an erythroid transcription factor that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an endoglin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a complement receptor type 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a transcription factor pu .1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd48 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an l - selectin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a syndecan - 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a syndecan - 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a complement receptor type 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a membrane - spanning 4 - domains subfamily a member 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a complement receptor type 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd33 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a b - cell receptor cd22 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a high affinity immunoglobulin epsilon receptor subunit alpha that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a low affinity immunoglobulin epsilon fc receptor that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - x that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein ye1 / 48 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an interleukin - 5 receptor subunit alpha that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an fmet - leu - phe receptor that is encoded in the genome of human .
a 5' - nucleotidase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a macrophage scavenger receptor types i and ii that is encoded in the genome of human .
a v ( d ) j recombination - activating protein 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd9 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
an alpha -  ( 1 , 3 )  - fucosyltransferase 4 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell acute lymphocytic leukemia protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd3 epsilon that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a macrophage mannose receptor 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an endothelial transcription factor gata - 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a trans - acting t - cell - specific transcription factor gata - 3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a trans - acting t - cell - specific transcription factor gata - 3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a signal transducer cd24 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a signal transducer cd24 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd19 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin beta - 7 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an integrin beta - 7 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a high affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc receptor i that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an nkg2 - a / nkg2 - b type ii integral membrane protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd27 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 3 receptor class 2 alpha chain that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 3 receptor class 2 alpha chain that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 5 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor subfamily b member 1c that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd34 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
an adp - ribosyl cyclase / cyclic adp - ribose hydrolase 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - cell surface glycoprotein cd1c that is encoded in the genome of human .
a tumor necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a macrophage scavenger receptor types i and ii that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a t - cell - specific surface glycoprotein cd28 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a low affinity immunoglobulin gamma fc region receptor ii - b that is encoded in the genome of human .
a macrosialin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a carcinoembryonic antigen - related cell adhesion molecule 8 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 7 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cadherin - 5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd80 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
an fmet - leu - phe receptor that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a macrosialin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a b - cell receptor cd22 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a urokinase plasminogen activator surface receptor that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a lymphocyte antigen 6g that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein kinase flt3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd69 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - e that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd9 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a b - cell lymphoma 6 protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
a b - cell lymphoma 6 protein that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd27 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd86 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd86 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cathepsin k that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 7 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cx3c chemokine receptor 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an eosinophil peroxidase that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a ccaat / enhancer - binding protein alpha that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd7 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a lim / homeobox protein lhx3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a nuclear receptor ror - gamma that is encoded in the genome of human .
a nuclear receptor ror - gamma that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a nuclear receptor ror - gamma isoform 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 4 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 4 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 5 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - c chemokine receptor type 6 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a ccaat / enhancer - binding protein alpha that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cathepsin k that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cadherin - 5 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a v ( d ) j recombination - activating protein 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an adp - ribosyl cyclase / cyclic adp - ribose hydrolase 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a leukocyte immunoglobulin - like receptor subfamily a member 4 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 4 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 4 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a tyrosine - protein phosphatase non - receptor type substrate 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an iroquois - class homeodomain protein irx - 6 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a neutrophil gelatinase - associated lipocalin that is encoded in the genome of human .
an aminopeptidase n that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a tyrosine - protein phosphatase non - receptor type substrate 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a receptor - type tyrosine - protein kinase flt3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd80 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - 4 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a nuclear factor nf - kappa - b p100 subunit that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd83 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a runt - related transcription factor 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 5 receptor subunit alpha that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 1 receptor - like 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a programmed cell death protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a paired box protein pax - 5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a paired box protein pax - 5 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a runt - related transcription factor 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a urokinase plasminogen activator surface receptor that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - x - c chemokine receptor type 5 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase type 5 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a glutamyl aminopeptidase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cd69 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a natural killer cell receptor 2b4 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a platelet glycoprotein 4 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a bone marrow stromal antigen 2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an alpha -  ( 1 , 3 )  - fucosyltransferase 4 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a tyrosine - protein kinase mer that is encoded in the genome of human .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor subfamily b member 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor subfamily d member 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a slam family member 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a transmembrane emp24 domain - containing protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a short transient receptor potential cation channel trpc3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an adhesion g protein - coupled receptor e1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a programmed cell death protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a ccaat / enhancer - binding protein epsilon that is encoded in the genome of human .
a slam family member 5 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a scavenger receptor cysteine - rich type 1 protein m130 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a transmembrane emp24 domain - containing protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cell surface glycoprotein cd200 receptor 3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor 4 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - e that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor 8 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a macrophage receptor marco that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a lymphocyte antigen 75 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a tyrosine - protein kinase mer that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an arginase - 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a neprilysin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a 5' - nucleotidase that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an adhesion g protein - coupled receptor e1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a macrophage mannose receptor 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a bone marrow proteoglycan that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a bone marrow proteoglycan isoform 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a sialoadhesin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a transferrin receptor protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an endoglin that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd33 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd34 molecule that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor 3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a lactosylceramide 4 - alpha - galactosyltransferase that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase / phosphodiesterase family member 3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - type lectin domain family 6 member a that is encoded in the genome of human .
a ccaat / enhancer - binding protein epsilon that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - type lectin domain family 7 member a that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a scavenger receptor cysteine - rich type 1 protein m130 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a natural cytotoxicity triggering receptor 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd209 molecule - like protein b that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a bone marrow stromal antigen 2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a netrin - g1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a neuropilin and tolloid - like protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a neuropilin and tolloid - like protein 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - type lectin domain family 4 member k that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - type lectin domain family 4 member c that is encoded in the genome of human .
a killer cell lectin - like receptor subfamily g member 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a forkhead box protein p3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - type lectin domain family 7 member a that is encoded in the genome of human .
a forkhead box protein p3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a natural killer cell receptor 2b4 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a sialoadhesin that is encoded in the genome of human .
an iroquois - class homeodomain protein irx - 6 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an interleukin - 17 receptor b that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a t - box transcription factor tbx21 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a c - type lectin domain family 6 member a that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a cd209 molecule that is encoded in the genome of human .
a lactosylceramide 4 - alpha - galactosyltransferase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a complement component c1q receptor that is encoded in the genome of human .
an interleukin - 17 receptor b that is encoded in the genome of human .
an integrin alpha - iib that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a slam family member 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an integrin alpha - x that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a short transient receptor potential cation channel trpc3 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a lim / homeobox protein lhx3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a macrophage receptor marco that is encoded in the genome of human .
a slam family member 5 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a c - type lectin domain family 4 member k that is encoded in the genome of human .
a t - box transcription factor tbx21 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a nuclear factor nf - kappa - b p100 subunit that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
an inducible t - cell costimulator that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a netrin - g1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a prostaglandin d2 receptor dp2 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 11a that is encoded in the genome of human .
an inducible t - cell costimulator that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cx3c chemokine receptor 1 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a prostaglandin d2 receptor dp2 that is encoded in the genome of mouse .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
an extent of biological sequence .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
orifice of the olfactory system .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
the clusters of hormone - producing cells that are scattered throughout the pancreas
the pituitary gland is an endocrine gland that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands  [ go ]  .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
part of peripheral nervous system that includes the somatic parts of the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the endocrine system and is made up of islet cells ,  which produce insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the exocrine system and which produces and store zymogens of digestive enzymes ,  such as chymotrypsinogen and trypsinogen in the acinar cells  [ go ]  .
a light sensing organ composed of ommatidia
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
anatomical projection that protrudes from the skin .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
the fluid surrounding the ovum and granulosa cells in the ovarian follicle .
region of ovarian follicle filled with follicular fluid .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone [ vsao ]  .
sensory ganglia located on the dorsal spinal roots within the vertebral column .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a c - shaped bundle of fibres  ( axons )  in the brain ,  and carries signals from the hippocampus to the mammillary bodies and septal nuclei .
thickened areas of the saccule or utricle where the termination of the vestibular nerve occurs [ mesh , modified ]  .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the vertebrate kidney [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
the second stage of the kidney .
in mammals ,  the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus ,  which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord .
a mesonephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an epithelial swelling on the wolffian duct that elongates to invade the adjacent metanephric mesenchyme [ mp ] 
a spherical embryonic mass of blastomeres formed before the blastula and resulting from cleavage of the fertilized ovum .
a glycoprotein membrane surrounding the plasma membrane of an oocyte .
a mass of cells that develop into the body of the embryo and some extraembryonic tissues
the mesectodermal cell layer arising from the trophectoderm that erodes the uterine mucosa and contributes to the formation of the placenta
a flattened ,  almost circular bilaminar plate of cells formed when the inner cell mass  ( aka embryoblast )  forms two epithelial layers ,  each of a distinct lineage ,  separated by an extracellular basement membrane: the external  ( dorsal )  layer is called the epiblast and the internal  ( ventral )  layer is called the hypoblast  ( aka primitive endoderm )  ;  together ,  they compose the bilaminar embryonic disc .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
portion of neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of single layer of cells connected to each other by cell junctions .
a layer of thin ,  concentrically arranged cells with interspersed collagen that lies within the epineurium .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a loose connective tissue sheath surrounding each peripheral nerve .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
nucleus that receives projections from or contains neurons that send projections through one of the cranial nerves
the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression
the terminal part of the large intestine ,  continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a section dividing a colon along a proximal - distal axis .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
dorsal part  ( roof region )  of the telencephalon [ go ]  .
ventral part  ( base region )  of the telencephalon .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
a layer of membrane around a tendon .
the thin innermost layer of the extraembryonic membranes that contains the amniotic fluid ;  the membrane forms a closed sac in which the embryo and later ,  the fetus ,  is suspended and protected
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the external portion of an animal body derived from ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
the upper ventral region of the torso of an organism .
cartilage pertaining to the tibia .
a mucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space between the arachnoid and pia mater .
a substance produced by the cervix and endocervical glands [ bto ]  .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
a mucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an embryo that is at the late embryonic stage ;  this stage covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the branched tubular glands found in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach which contain parietal cells that secrete hydrochloric acid and zymogenic cells that produce pepsin .
pancreatic juice is slightly alkaline and contains numerous enzymes and inactive enzyme precursors including alpha - amylase ,  chymotrypsinogen ,  lipase ,  procarboxypeptidase ,  proelastase ,  prophospholipase a2 ,  ribonuclease ,  and trypsinogen .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a mucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
bone marrow in which the fat cells predominate in the meshes of the reticular network .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the orbit and its contents ,  the nasal cavity and the skin of the nose and forehead .
a set of midline structures surrounding the brainstem of the mammalian brain ,  originally described anatomically ,  e .g . ,  hippocampal formation ,  amygdala ,  hypothalamus ,  cingulate cortex .
a fibrous membrane ,  which ,  in the neck ,  represents the supraspinal ligaments of the upper vertebrae .
functional part of an organ in the body .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types ,  the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm [ go ]  .
the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids
an epithelial tissue layer that lines much of the urinary tract ,  including the renal pelvis ,  the ureters ,  the bladder ,  and parts of the urethra .
the corpus striatum  ( striated body )  is a compound structure consisting of the caudate nucleus and the lentiform nucleus ,  which consists of the putamen and the globus pallidus [ wp ]  .
the motor and sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the auricle ,  the external acoustic meatus ,  tympanic membrane ,  temporal region ,  the cheek ,  the skin overlying the mandible ,  the anterior portion of the tongue ,  the floor of the mouth ,  lower teeth and gingiva and transmits motor information from the muscles of mastication ,  the mylohyoid muscle and digastric muscle and the muscles tensor tympani and tensor veli palatini .
the part of the hindlimb between pelvis and the knee ,  corresponding to the femur .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the palate ,  upper teeth and gingiva ,  the skin between the palpebral fissure and the mouth ,  and from the nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses .
the muscular portion of the tongue .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
apocrine sweat glands are sweat glands composed of a coiled secretory portion located at the junction of the dermis and subcutaneous fat ,  from which a straight portion inserts and secretes into the infundibular portion of the hair follicle .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
pia mater or arachnoid mater .
the group of nerve cell bodies that conveys auditory sensation from the organ of corti to the hindbrain and resides on the cochlear part of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( eighth cranial nerve )  [ mp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any portion of cartilage tissue that is part of the sternum
a mucosa that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a jejunum .
the nasal vestibule is the most anterior part of the nasal cavity .
the outer covering of the calvaria .
one of a a paired bundle of nerve fibers plus ganglia that run from the base of the skull to the coccyx .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesodermal signaling center of the hair follicle consisting of closely packed specialized mesenchymal fibroblasts .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a merocrine ,  unbranched ,  unbranched ,  coiled ,  tubular gland sweat gland .
the prostate epithelium .
a plexus of autonomic nerve fibers within the wall of the digestive tube ,  and made up of the submucosal ,  myenteric ,  and subserosal plexuses ;  it contains visceral afferent fibers ,  sympathetic postganglionic fibers ,  parasympathetic preganglionic and postganglionic fibers ,  and parasympathetic postganglionic cell bodies .
a vein that drains the left pampiniform plexus and empties into the left renal vein .
a vein that drains the right pampiniform plexus and empties into the inferior vena cava .
gray matter structure located on the midline of the forebrain consisting of the septum pellucidum  ( in some species )  and the septal nuclei  ( heimer ,  1996 )  .
the layer located below the cerebral cortex that includes the forebrain ,  midbrain and hindbrain .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
any of several small branches of the internal carotid artery that supply the trigeminal ganglion and the walls of the cavernous and petrosal sinuses .
the region of the opening of the uterine cervix into the uterine cavity .
an anatomical wall that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
a gonad of a male animal .
the organs and associated structures associated with bearing offspring in a female animal .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
interstitial fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of a solution which bathes and surrounds the cells of multicellular animals .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
a muscle that acts on the pharynx [ wp ,  vetted ]  .
cranial nerve fiber tract which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons running posterior medially towards the optic chiasm ,  at which some of the axons cross the midline and after which the structure is termed the optic tract .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
any of a number of short transversospinal muscles chiefly developed in cervical ,  lumbar ,  and thoracic regions ,  arising from the transverse process of one vertebra and inserted into the root of the spinous process of the next two or three vertebrae above ,  with nerve supply from the dorsal branches of the spinal nerve ,  and whose actions rotate the vertebral column .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the thin layer of gray matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon .
any thin layer or plate .
middle part of an organ ,  surrounded by the cortex .
a decussation of the diencephalon where the fibers of the optic nerve cross
the thoracic ganglia are paravertebral ganglia .
the cervical nerves are the spinal nerves from the cervical vertebrae .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
the smallest morphological and functional unit of the compound eye that consists of a usually limited and often constant number of rhabdomeric photoreceptor cells ,  cornea - secreting epithelial cells ,  and interommatidial pigment cells ,  and may additionally contain crystalline cone cells .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
a midventral endochondral skeletal element which represents the origin site of the pectoral muscles [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
paired endochondral long bone that extends between the pectoral girdle and the skeletal parts of the forelimb .
the invaginated serous membrane that surrounds the lungs  ( the visceral portion )  and lines the walls of the pleural cavity  ( parietal portion )  .
the portion of the hindlimb that contains both the stylopod and zeugopod .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
endochondral longbone connecting the pelvic girdle with posterior zeugopodium skeleton .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
a metapodium region that is part of a pes .
vein that drains the axilla
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
a intromittent organ in certain biologically male organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
a tube or collection of tubes in an animal from the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles [ wp ]  .
external genital organs of the female mammal [ wp ]  .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract posterolateral to the urinary bladder and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
the ejaculatory ducts  ( ductus ejaculatorii )  are paired structures in male anatomy ,  about 2 cm in length .
a secretory duct that transports sperm from the testis .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
a group of axons linking two or more neuropils and having a common origin ,  termination [ fbbt ]  .
a slender neuron projection bundle [ fbbt ]  ;  a bundle of anatomical fibers ,  as of muscle or nerve  ( american heritage dictionary 4th ed )  .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
a nerve that transmits from sensory receptors on the surface of the body to the central nervous system .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
a filament ,  mostly protein ,  that grows from follicles found in the dermis [ wp ]  .
a sac - like expansion of the ventral wall of the intestine ,  narrowed into a yolk stalk near the body [ hyman's ]  .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ] 
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
a tubule that extends from the posterior part of the digestive tract which absorbs solutes ,  water ,  and wastes from the surrounding hemolymph .
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a duct joining the pancreas to the common bile duct to supply pancreatic juices which aid in digestion provided by the exocrine pancreas .
a pad of fibrocartilage between the articular surfaces of two successive vertebral centra which has nucleus pulposus at its core .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
a point along the course of the gastrointestinal tract where the small intestine  ( ileum )  ends as it opens into the cecal portion of the large intestine ;  occurs usually within the iliac fossa ,  demarcated internally as the ileocecal orifice
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
ossified form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
a extension of a neural arches dorsal to the neural canal [ tao , modified ]  .
the transverse or costal processes of a vertebra ,  two in number ,  project one at either side from the point where the lamina joins the pedicle ,  between the superior and inferior articular processes .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
skeletal element within the mouth  ( or in some species ,  upper part of the digestive tract )  that is composed of dentine and is used in procuring or masticating food .
any vertebral bone that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the pectoralis minor is a thin ,  triangular muscle ,  situated at the upper part of the chest ,  beneath the pectoralis major .
a paired dermal or endochondral bone that is part of the pectoral girdle .
the latissimus dorsi is the larger ,  flat ,  dorso - lateral muscle on the trunk ,  posterior to the arm ,  and partly covered by the trapezius on its median dorsal region .
traditional gross anatomy divided the liver into four lobes based on surface features .
the right lobe is much larger than the left ;  the proportion between them being as six to one .
the left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right .
a lobe of tissue that is part of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the right side of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the left side of a thyroid gland .
the serratus ventralis is a muscle that originates on the surface of the upper eight or nine ribs at the side of the chest and inserts along the entire anterior length of the medial border of the scapula .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all the vertebra and associated skeletal elements and joints in the body [ modified from vsao ]  .
a foramen within a vertebral element through which the spinal cord runs .
the parathyroid gland is an endocrine gland for secretion of parathyroid hormone ,  usually found as a pair ,  embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
in anatomy ,  the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  is a blood vessel that drains blood from the small intestine .
either of the pair of major vessels which arise from the renal hilus and return blood from the kidneys ,  suprarenal gland and the ureter to the inferior vena cava .
a renal vein that drains the right kidney
a renal vein that drains the left kidney
vein that carries blood away from the liver [ zfa ]  .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from a single male gonad .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from its corresponding ovary to inferior vena cava or one of its tributaries .
a vein that drains the adrenal gland .
the tubular structure that conducts gall bladder contents from the gall bladder to the common bile duct
a pouch in the digestive tract that connects the ileum with the ascending colon of the large intestine .
a blind - ended tube connected to the cecum ,  from which it develops embryologically [ wp ]  .
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
section of colon which is distal to the cecum and proximal to the transversecolon .
the proximal - distal subdivision of colon that runs transversely across the upper part of the abdomen ,  from the right to the left colic flexure .
the portion of the colon between the left colic flexure and the sigmoid colon at the pelvic brim ;  the portion of the descending colon lying in the left iliac fossa is sometimes called the iliac colon .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
the fundus is the portion of the stomach that lies above the cardiac notch ,  and contains the fundic glands [ go ,  kardong ]  .
the body of stomach is the part of the stomach that lies between the fundus above and the pyloric antrum below ;  its boundaries are poorly defined [ go ]  .
the part of the stomach attached to the esophagus .
the area at the bottom of the stomach on the caudal side of the pyloric canal that contains gastrin - producing g cells ,  which stimulate acid production ,  and the luminal ph - sensitive population of somatostatin - producing d cells
the stomach tissue region surrounding and controlling the distal outlet of the stomach ,  which opens into the duodenum
the layered structure that makes up the stomach ,  typiclly consists of a serous coat ,  a muscular coat ,  a mucous membrane ,  and other tissue layers in between
an anatomical wall that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the peritoneum responsible for connecting the jejunum and ileum  ( parts of the small intestine )  to the back wall of the abdomen .
the triangular region on the periphery of the liver lobules that contain a bile duct and a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel .
the functional unit of the liver ,  consisting of a mass of hepatocytes from adjacent liver lobules aligned around the hepatic arterioles and portal venules just as they anastomose into sinusoids .
a complex network of conduits that begins with the canals of hering  ( intralobar bile duct )  and progressively merges into a system of interlobular ,  septal ,  and major ducts which then coalesce to form the extrahepatic bile ducts ,  which finally deliver bile to the intestine ,  and in some species to the gallbladder .
the part of the biliary tree formed by the union of the cystic duct and the common hepatic duct
predominantly extrahepatic bile duct which is formed by the junction of the right and left hepatic ducts ,  which are predominantly intrahepatic ,  and ,  in turn ,  joins the cystic duct to form the common bile duct [ gaid ]  .
the duct that drains bile from the right half of the liver and joins the left hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the duct that drains bile from the left half of the liver and joins the right hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the inner layer of peritoneum that is wrapped around organs located inside the intraperitoneal space .
anatomical cavity bounded by visceral and parietal peritoneum
mesenteric artery that supplies the whole length of the small intestine except the superior part of the duodenum .
mesenteric artery that supplies the large intestine from the left colic  ( or splenic )  flexure to the upper part of the rectum ,  which includes the descending colon ,  the sigmoid colon ,  and part of the rectum .
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
renal artery that supplies the right kidney
renal artery that supplies the left kidney
one of a pair of arteries that is a branch of the abdominal aorta that supplies blood to a male gonad .
a testicular artery that supplies a right testicle .
a testicular artery that supplies a left testicle .
an artery that supplies an ovary .
the common iliac arteries are two large arteries ,  about 4cm long in adults but more than a centimetre in diameter ,  that originate from the aortic bifurcation .
an artery that supplies the liver .
an artery that supplies the spleen .
the middle colic artery is a branch of the superior mesenteric artery that mostly supplies the transverse colon .
the ileocolic artery is the lowest branch arising from the concavity of the superior mesenteric artery .
the mucosal layer that lines the stomach .
the fibrous connective tissue layer beneath the stomach mucosa
the outermost layer of the stomach wall ,  consisting of layers of connective tissue continuous with the peritoneum
a strong ring of smooth muscle at the end of the pyloric canal which lets food pass from the stomach to the duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
submucosal tissue in the small intestines .
a serous membrane that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the protruding lymphoid tissue located on the mucosa of the intestine that is composed of densely packed b cell follicles
a compound tubular submucosal gland found in that portion of the duodenum which is above the hepatopancreatic sphincter  ( sphincter of oddi )  .
the tiny hair - like projections that protrude from the inside of the small intestine that contain blood vessels that capture digested nutrients that are absorbed through the intestinal wall ;  the villi increase the absorptive surface area of the small intestine by approximately 30 - fold
a blood vessel that drains blood from the large intestine that usually terminates when reaching the splenic vein ,  which goes on to form the portal vein with the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  .
a tributary of the superior mesenteric vein that drains the jejunum .
the veins that drain blood from the ileum into the superior mesenteric vein .
the middle colic vein drains the transverse colon .
the ileocolic vein is a vein which drains the ileum ,  colon ,  and cecum .
an ureter that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ureter that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
outer cortical portion of the kidney ,  between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
tip of renal pyramid projecting into a minor calyx .
the structure containing the glomerular capsule and the glomerulus that serves as the initial blood - filtering component of a nephron
a cup - like sac at the expanded beginning of a tubular component of a nephron that contains the glomerulus
an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron ,  the functional part of the kidney .
the collecting duct is a portion of the nephron through which water flows ,  moving passively down its concentration gradient
an adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
an adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that produces and secretes steroid hormones such as corticosterone ,  estrone and aldosterone
the inner portion of the adrenal gland that consists mainly of chromaffin cells which produce ,  store and secrete neurotransmitters such as epinephrine and norepinephrine
a chromaffin paraganglion located at the bifurcation of the aorta or at the origin of the inferior mesenteric artery .
lamina propria that is part_of the small intestine .
the tubular intestinal glands found in the mucosal membranes of the small intestine
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a serous membrane that is part of a wall of intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
the canals that carry bile in the liver between the intralobular ducts and the biliary ductules ;  interlobular bile ducts are part of the interlobular portal triad .
a ligament that attaches the liver to the anterior body wall .
the area of the white pulp where the affinity maturation of b cells and the generation of memory b cells and plasma cells occur
the parenchymatous tissue network of the spleen that consists of loose plates or cords  ( sinuses )  infiltrated with red blood cells where most of the blood filtration occurs and degenerate erythrocytes are removed from the circulation
the zone between the red and white pulp of the spleen containing numerous macrophages and lymphocytes ,  and a rich plexus of sinusoids supplied by white pulp arterioles carrying blood - borne antigens
an adventitia that is part of a ureter .
a lamina propria that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the luminal epithelium of the tube that conducts the urine from the renal pelvis to the bladder [ mp ] 
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an anatomical wall that lines the insider of a urinary bladder .
the smooth triangular region of the wall of the urinary bladder formed by the two ureteral orifices and the internal urethral orifice ;  it is an area in which the muscle fibers are closely adherent to the mucosa
the constricted portion of the urinary bladder ,  formed by the meeting of its inferolateral surfaces proximal to the opening of the urethra [ mp ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
a serous membrane that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the secretory units of the exocrine pancreas ,  where fluid containing digestive enzymes is produced ;  consists of a group of secretory cells surrounding a luminal space that connects to the pancreatic duct .
an endoderm derived structure that produces precursors of digestive enzymes and blood glucose regulating enzymes [ go ]  .
a structure found in the red pulp of the spleen between the sinusoids ,  consisting of fibrils and connective tissue cells with a large population of monocytes and macrophages .
transudate contained in the peritoneal cavity .
the organism subdivision that includes the pelvic girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
the epithelial layer of the stomach  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a multi - organ - part structure that consists of three vessels of the portal lobule including the bile duct ,  a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel
the functional units of the liver including the lobules .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
the tubules located between the bile canaliculi and interlobular bile ducts near the outer edge of a classic liver lobule
the basic functional unit of the kidney .
a narrow chalice - shaped cavity between the glomerular and capsular epithelium of the glomerular capsule of the kidney [ tfd ]  .
the proximal convoluted tubule is the most proximal portion of the proximal tubule and extends from the glomerular capsule to the proximal straight tubule .
the section of the renal tubule in the kidney medulla with a hairpin bend ;  consists of a descending limb and an ascending limb ,  and is situated between the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule ;  it functions to reabsorb water and ions from the urine
the portion of the renal tubule that constitutes the proximal part of the loop of henle ,  has low permeability to ions and urea ,  and is highly permeable to water ;  it consists of an initial short thick segment lined by low simple cuboidal epithelium and a long thin segment lined by simple squamous epithelium ;  however ,  this distinction is not as important physiologically as in the ascending limb ,  so often the two are treated as one structure
the proximal straight tubule is the part of the descending limb that extends from the proximal convoluted tubule to the descending thin tubule .
the distal sub - portion of the ascending loop of henle which is lined by simple cuboidal epithelium and enters the renal cortex to empty a hypotonic filtrate into the distal convoluted tubule
the first segment of the nephron lying just downstream from the loop of henle ,  immediately after the macula densa .
the renal outer medulla is the region of the kidney that lies between the renal cortex and the renal inner medulla [ go ]  .
innermost region of the mammalian kidney .
the glandular mucous membrane lining of the uterine cavity that is hormonally responsive during the estrous / menstrual cycle and during pregnancy
the smooth muscle coat of the uterus ,  which forms the main mass of the organ and surrounds and supports the endometrium
outer serosa layer of the uterus .
the conic expansion of the corpus spongiosum that forms the head of the penis
the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testis that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testis and vas deferens
a fallopian tube that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a fallopian tube that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of simple cuboidal cells covering surface of ovary [ wp ]  .
a spherical aggregation of cells in the ovary that contains a single oocyte [ wp , modified ]  .
a capsule that surrounds a female gonad .
the external iliac artery is a large artery in the pelvic region that carries blood to the lower limb .
the internal iliac artery  ( formerly known as the hypogastric artery )  is the main artery of the pelvis .
the umbilical artery is a paired artery  ( with one for each half of the body )  that is found in the abdominal and pelvic regions .
an artery that supplies blood to the lower urinary bladder .
an artery that supplies blood to the upper urinary bladder .
a vein that begins near the upper part of the greater sciatic foramen ,  passes upward behind and slightly medial to the hypogastric artery and ,  at the brim of the pelvis ,  joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein .
one the veins that drains the vaginal venous plexus ,  into the hypogastric veins .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
a portion of a prostate that forms a lobe .
the pampiniform plexus is a network of many small veins found in the male spermatic cord .
a zone of skin that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus when the penis is not erect .
a urethra that is part of a male reproductive system .
a urethra that is part of a female reproductive system .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the male or female urethra that help protect the epithelium from the corrosive urine
the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
the epithelial layer of the vagina .
connective tissue consisting of fat - storing cells and arranged in lobular groups or along minor blood vessels [ mp , modified ] 
a thermogenic form of adipose tissue that is composed of brown adipocytes [ mp , modified ] 
the upper dilated end of the nasolacrimal duct that is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lacrimal bone and frontal process of the maxilla ;  it connects the lacrimal canaliculi ,  which drain tears from the eye's surface ,  and the nasolacrimal duct ,  which conveys this fluid into the nasal cavity ;  like the nasolacrimal duct ,  the sac is lined by stratified columnar epithelium with mucus - secreting goblet cells ,  and is surrounded by connective tissue .
a tube running from the outer ear to the middle ear .
the anus and surrounding regions .
the profunda femoris artery  ( also known as the deep femoral artery ,  or the deep artery of the thigh )  is a branch of the femoral artery that ,  as its name suggests ,  travels more deeply  ( posteriorly )  than the rest of the femoral artery .
the medial circumflex femoral artery  ( internal circumflex artery ,  medial femoral circumflex artery )  is an artery in the upper thigh that helps supply blood to the neck of the femur .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
the outer layer of peritoneum that is attached to the abdominal and pelvic walls .
a muscle that is part of the region of the hindlimb between the pelvis and ankle .
the part of the cerebral cortex that receives projections from the motor thalamus and which projects to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord .
artery that supplies the axilla
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a face  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a bone that is part of the carpal skeleton .
a phalanx that is part of a forelimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the head of a long bone that articulates with a neighboring skeletal element and is separated from the shaft by the epiphyseal plate until bone growth stops .
zone of long bone that is between the epiphysis and diaphysis .
the outer layers of solid ,  hard bone that covers spongy bone ;  consists of parallel osteons containing mineral deposits and interstitial lamellae
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free forelimb region .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb region .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a manus ,  which is the distal section of the anterior forelimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the neck by the plane of the superior thoracic aperture and from the abdomen internally by the inferior surface of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin and associated with the thoracic vertebral column and ribcage and from the back of the thorax by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ;  together with the abdomen and the perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper [ fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a pes ,  which is the distal section of the posterior hindlimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
a bone that is part of the tarsal skeleton .
the metatarsus or metatarsal bones are a group of five long bones in the pes located between the tarsal bones of the hind -  and mid - pes and the phalanges of the toes .
a phalanx that is part of a hindlimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the forelimb extending from the shoulder to the autopod [ cjm ]  .
the elbow is the region surrounding the elbow - joint - the ginglymus or hinge joint in the middle of the arm .
the hip region is located lateral to the gluteal region  ( i .e .
a segment of the hindlimb that corresponds to the joint connecting a hindlimb stylopod and zeugopod .
a digit that is part of a pes  ( foot )  .
a subdivision of the pectoral complex consisting of the structures in the region of the shoulder joint  ( which connects the humerus ,  scapula and clavicle )  .
the joint between adjacent vertebral bodies .
the sternoclavicular articulation is a double arthrodial joint composed of two portions separated by an articular disc .
the glenohumeral joint ,  commonly known as the shoulder joint ,  is a multiaxial synovial ball and socket joint and involves articulation between the glenoid fossa of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  and the head of the humerus  ( upper arm bone )  .
the loose fold of skin that covers the penis
the vaginal plexuses are placed at the sides of the vagina ;  they communicate with the uterine ,  vesical ,  and hemorrhoidal plexuses ,  and are drained by the vaginal veins ,  one on either side ,  into the hypogastric veins .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph ,  that originates as an interfibrillar or intercellular cleft or space in a tissue or organ ,  and that if small has no distinct walls or walls composed only of endothelial cells and if large resembles a vein in structure [ bto ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
a muscle of shoulder which attaches to the scapula ,  clavicle and humerus .
a sesamoid element that is composed of bone tissue .
a carpal bone that proximally_connected_to a forelimb zeugopod skeleton .
any muscle organ that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a shoulder region .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
the knee joint joins the thigh with the leg and consists of two articulations: one between the femur and tibia ,  and one between the femur and patella .
a skeletal joint that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the hindlimb autopod and zeugopod skeletons .
a skeletal joint that is part of a manus  ( hand )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the forelimb zeugopod and stylopod skeletons [ obol ]  .
a joint connecting the forelimb zeugopod skeleton with the carpal skeleton .
the axillary nerve is a nerve of the human body ,  that comes off the posterior cord of the brachial plexus at the level of the axilla  ( armpit )  and carries nerve fibers from c5 and c6 .
muscles of the upper chest .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the convex portion of the aorta between the ascending and descending parts of the aorta ;  branches from it include the brachiocephalic trunk ,  the left common carotid artery ,  and the left subclavian artery ;  the brachiocephalic trunk further splits to form the right subclavian artery and the right common carotid artery
a zone of skin that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries [ go ]  .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the short first aortic arch branch and divides into the right subclavian artery and the right common carotid artery
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
the rightmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from in the neck from the brachiocephalic trunk .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to the brain and eyes [ mp ] 
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the pectoral appendages ,  usually branching from the dorsal aorta
the subclavian artery that supplies the right pectoral appendage
the leftmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from the aortic arch in the thorax .
the dorsal metatarsal veins are veins which drain the metatarsus of the foot .
one of the curved arteries at the corticomedullary border of the kidney that arise from the interlobar arteries and give rise to the interlobular arteries .
a zone of skin that is part of a hip region .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
the muscles associated with the larynx .
either of a pair of lingual muscles with origin in the mandible ,  with insertion to the lingual fascia below the mucous membrane and epiglottis ,  with nerve supply from the hypoglossal nerve ,  and whose action depresses and protrudes the tongue .
a muscle that attaches to the hyopid bone and to the tongue and is innervated by cranial nerve xii
a muscle organ that attaches the tongue to some other structure .
the intrinsic tongue muscles are an integral part of the tongue and completely contained within the tongue that are innervated by cranial nerve xii .
a muscle innervated by a facial nerve .
nerve that carries information from the olfactory epithelium to the olfactory bulb [ butler and hodos ]  .
the subclavian artery that supplies the left pectoral appendage
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
a vein that drains blood from the thymus .
the bronchial veins are small vessels that return blood from the larger bronchi and structures at the roots of the lungs .
a congregation of multiple veins .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the iris .
a smooth muscle of the eye ,  running radially in the iris that functions as a dilator .
the lingual artery arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial artery [ wp ]  .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
the occipital artery arises opposite the facial artery ,  its path is below the posterior belly of digastric to the occipital region .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
the ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid artery which supplies branches to supply the eye and other structures in the orbit .
an artery that supplies the myocardium .
the lacrimal artery arises close to the optic foramen ,  and is one of the largest branches derived from the ophthalmic artery: not infrequently it is given off before the artery enters the orbit .
one of a pair of right - sided and left - sided blood vessels in the circle of willis .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
the first major branch of the abdominal aorta .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the supraorbital  ( supplying the skin of the eye region and the lateral line organs here )  ,  the palatine  ( to the roof of the buccal cavity )  ,  and the hyomandibular  ( dividing into the jugular and mental branches )  .
cranial nerve that transmits sound and equilibrium  ( balance )  information from the inner ear to the brain .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
cranial nerve that innervates the muscles of the tongue .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
the cerebral veins are divisible into external and internal groups according to the outer surfaces or the inner parts of the hemispheres they drain into .
a vein that drains the cerebellum .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull
an unpaired bone situated at the base of the skull in front of the temporal bone and basilar part of the occipital bone .
the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous
a horseshoe shaped bone situated in the anterior midline of the neck between the chin and the thyroid cartilage .
one of 3 small bones contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid - filled labyrinth .
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
part of the ear external to the tympanum  ( eardrum )  .
the petrous portion of the temporal bone or pyramid is pyramidal and is wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve ) 
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
subdivision of skeletal system that surrounds and protects the brain .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
a fold of skin that covers and protects part of the eyeball .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
any of the nuclei of the cochlear nuclear complex .
a muscular organ in the floor of the mouth .
the cartilaginous joints of the skull ;  these include sphenoethmoidal synchondrosis ,  sphenooccipital synchondrosis ,  sphenopetrosal synchondrosis ,  petrooccipital synchondrosis ,  anterior intraoccipital synchondrosis and posterior intraoccipital synchondrosis .
a specialized receptor organ that is a collection of cells spanning the gustatory epithelium .
the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
the circular lymphoid tissue formed by the lingual ,  pharyngeal ,  and facial tonsils
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
a ligament that is part of a larynx and connexts the cartilages of the larynx
portion of connective tissue with various types of white blood cells enmeshed in it ,  most numerous being the lymphocytes [ wp ]  .
a lymphoid follicle that contains a germinal center .
a parenchyma that is part of a thyroid follicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense and irregular connective tissue capsule surrounding a parathyroid gland .
a parenchyma that is part of a parathyroid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a network of orbital structures of the eye that secrete and drain tears from the surface of the eyeball into the nasal cavity ;  these parts include the lacrimal glands ,  lacrimal lake ,  lacrimal ducts ,  lacrimal canals ,  lacrimal sacs ,  nasolacrimal ducts ,  and lacrimal puncta .
collagen - rich odontogenic tissue characteristic of teeth and tooth - like skeletal elements  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  ;  mature dentine is mineralized and develops from predentine tissue ;  often  ( but not always )  tubular and acellular .
a dentine - like hypermineralized substance that covers the tooth tip .
odontoid tissue that is deposited by cementoblasts onto dentine tissue and functions to attach teeth ,  odontodes and other odontogenic derivatives to bone tissue and the integument .
the part in the center of a tooth made up of living soft tissue and cells called odontoblasts [ wp ]  .
the middle ear is the air - filled cavity within the skull of vertebrates that lies between the outer ear and the inner ear .
the part of the ear that projects from the head ,  connecting to the external acoustic meatus .
the tissues that invest or help to invest and support the teeth ,  including the periodontal ligament ,  gingivae ,  cementum ,  and alveolar and supporting bone [ bto ]  .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
a condensation of odontoblasts that forms the part of a tooth germ that gives rise to dentin and pulp in the mature tooth .
epithelial tube that transports milk [ go ]  .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the part of the lacrimal duct that connects the lacrimal punctum to the lacrimal sac .
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
the lamellated connective tissue of the cornea between the bowman and descemet membranes
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
the delicate vascular connective tissue that lies between the anterior surface of the iris and the pars iridica retinae .
the any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment [ mp , modified ] 
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
a monolayer of pigmented epithelium covering the neural retina ;  develops from the outer of the two layers of the optic cup [ zfa ]  .
cranial nerves are nerves that emerge directly from the brain ,  in contrast to spinal nerves ,  which emerge from segments of the spinal cord .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell receptor segments reside .
the row of jucntional complexes between the plasma membranes of rod segments and the muller glia cells ;  this barrier separates the layer of inner and outer segments of the rods and cones from the outer nuclear layer and forms a blood - retina barrier [ mp ]  .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell bodies reside .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the photoreceptor cells [ zfa ]  .
cytoarchitectural layer of retina containing closely packed cell bodies ,  the majority of which are bipolar cells  ( adapted from wikipedia )  .
cytoarchitectural layer of retina that contains somata of retinal ganglion cells ,  bounded by the stratum opticum and the inner plexiform layer
layer of the retina formed by expansion of the fibers of the optic nerve
the row of fused muller cell processes and astrocytes that separates the retinal nerve fiber layer from the vitreous [ mp ]  .
cytoarchitectural layer of the retina that is made up of a dense reticulum of fibrils formed by interlaced dendrites of retinal ganglion cells and cells of the inner nuclear layer  ( adapted from wikipedia ) 
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
a transparent ,  semigelatinous substance that fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina
gelatinous mucoid tissue that is composed of vitreous humor and fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina [ mp , modified ] 
the chamber in the eyeball enclosing the vitreous humor ,  bounded anteriorly by the lens and ciliary body and posteriorly by the posterior wall of the eyeball [ bto , modified ]  .
the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons and non - neuronal supporting cells .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
ganglion that has dendrites that form a junction between autonomic nerves originating from the central nervous system and autonomic nerves innervating their target organs in the periphery .
a ganglion of the sympathetic nervous system .
trunk ganglion which is part of a bilaterally paired set of sympathetic ganglia located anterior and lateral to the spinal cord .
anatomical junction where subdivisions of two or more neural trees interconnect with one another to form a network through which nerve fibers of the constituent nerve trees become regrouped ;  together with other nerve plexuses ,  nerves and ganglia ,  it constitutes the peripheral nervous system .
the mucous membrane that lines the inner surface of the eyelids and the front of the eyeball
an intermingling of fiber fascicles from adjacent spinal nerves to form a network .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine where it proceeds through the neck then the axilla and into the arm where it innervates skin and muscle .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the pelvic appendage where it innervates skin and muscle .
a nerve plexus that is part of an autonomic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lacrimal glands are paired almond - shaped glands ,  located in or near the orbital region ,  that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film .
any of the coil glands of the skin that secrete sweat
a holocrine gland that secretes sebum into the hair follicles ,  or in hairless areas into ducts .
one of the cartilage structures in the nose that provide form and support [ wp ]  .
the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
aqueous substance secreted by the lacrimal gland .
the fibrous investing tissue ,  covered by keratinized epithelium ,  that immediately surrounds a tooth and is contiguous with its periodontal ligament and with the mucosal tissues of the mouth [ glossary of periodontal terms 2001 ]  .
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
the duct of a salivary gland .
a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
one of three half - circular ,  interconnected tubes located inside each ear [ wp ]  .
the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
transudate contained in the osseous labyrinth outside the membranous labyrinth .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
cartilage of the pinna and much of the external ear canal .
organ with organ cavity which consists of the vestibular labyrinth and the cochlear labyrinth .
a collection of channels that connects the conjunctival sac with the nasal cavity ,  encompassing the lacrimal ducts ,  the lacrimal sac and the naso - lacrimal duct .
outermost layer of an organ [ wp ]  .
the larger of the two otolith organs in the vestibule
the smaller of the two otolith organs in the vestibule
an endolymph filled cavity inside the cochlea ,  located in between the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli ,  separated by the basilar membrane and reissner's membrane  ( the vestibular membrane )  respectively .
any of the three loop - shaped membranous inner tubular parts of the semicircular canals that are about one - fourth the diameter of the corresponding outer bony canals ,  that communicate at each end with the utricle ,  and that have near one end an expanded ampulla containing an area of sensory epithelium
the part of the membranous labyrinth that includes the utricle and saccule lodged within the vestibule and the semicircular ducts lodged eccentrically in the corresponding canals .
fatty lubricant matter secreted by sebaceous glands ,  and made of made of triglyceride oils ,  wax ,  squalene ,  and metabolytes of fat - producing cells [ bto , wp ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
anterior portion of the neocortex ,  lying anterior to the central sulcus in humans .
lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere .
upper central part of the cerebral hemisphere .
part of the hippocampal formation forming a 'v' or 'u' shaped structure with the opening bounded by hippocampal area ca3 .
a network formed by blood vessels and the tela choroidea which secretes csf into the ventricular spaces .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres .
the division of the forebrain that develops from the foremost primary cerebral vesicle .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons  ( where present )  and the cerebellum [ wp , modified ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
subcortical brain region consisting of paired gray matter bodies in the dorsal diencephalon and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle of the brain .
a specialized brain region of the ventral diencephalon arising near the end of the segmentation period ;  the embryonic hypothalamic region will give rise to the posterior pituitary gland as well as a number of brain nuclei .
most dorsal part of the thalamus ,  comprising the pineal gland and habenular nuclei in most vertebrates .
the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells
an epithelium that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a midline ,  cone like structure located in the dorso - caudal roof of the 3rd ventricle ,  attached by peduncles to the habenular and posterior commissures .
diencephalic white matter  ( tract )  which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons after which they have passed through the optic chiasm [ zfa ]  .
a specialized accessory gland of the skin of mammals that secretes milk .
organ component of the mammary gland which consists of an aggregate of mammary alveoli that communicate with a lobular lactiferous duct .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
nucleus in the anterior part of the hypothalamus .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
a stratified squamous epithelium consisting of a basal layer ;  it is keratinized or parakeratinized [ bto ]  .
an area of cerebral cortex defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture that have six layers .
an epithelium that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a part of the brain consisting of a three layered cortex located in the forebrain bordering the medial surface of the lateral ventricle .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the hyaline cartilaginous structures that support the bronchi ,  present as irregular rings in the larger bronchi  ( and not as regular as in the trachea )  ,  and as small plates and islands in the smaller bronchi ;  as the branching continues through the bronchial tree ,  the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles [ mp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines a terminal bronchiole .
the parenchymatous tissue of the spleen that surrounds splenic blood vessels ,  consists of compact masses of lymphatic cells and is where foreign material removed from the blood is used to initiate an immune reaction that results in the production of antibodies
diffuse system of small concentrations of lymphoid tissue found in various sites of the body such as the gastrointestinal tract ,  thyroid ,  breast ,  lung ,  salivary glands ,  eye ,  and skin [ wp ]  .
mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue in digestive tract .
a diffuse collection of lymphpoid cells that participate in airway immune responses
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
a submucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer that lines the luminal space of the esophagus
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
the tubular intestinal glands found in the mucosal membranes
a crypt of lieberkuhn that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
the upper layer of the dermis beneath the epidermis ,  composed of dense irregular connective tissue [ ncit , modified ]  .
the thicker ,  deeper layer of the dermis ,  comprised of criss - crossing collagen fibers that form a strong elastic network and also containing blood and lymph vessels ,  nerves and nerve endings ,  and hair follicles
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
cartilage tissue intermediate between hyaline cartilage and dense connective tissue ;  contains of abundant collagen fibers ;  chondrocytes often arranged in columns .
cartilage tissue that is flexible and contains abundant elastic fibers .
a sensory epithelium inside the nasal cavity that is responsible for detecting odors [ wp ]  .
any joint that connects a rib to another structure  ( or another rib )  .
the enteric nervous system is composed of two ganglionated neural plexuses in the gut wall which form one of the three major divisions of the autonomic nervous system .
peripheral portion of the lymph node ,  underneath the capsule [ wp ]  .
the mdeullary portion of the lymph node ,  which contains large blood vessels ,  sinuses and medullary cords that contain antibody - secreting plasma cells .
a plexus of nerves situated at the base of the heart that innervate the heart .
the thoracodorsal artery is a branch of the subscapular artery .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
the tough fibrous layer surrounding the kidney which is covered in a thick layer of perirenal adipose tissue that functions to provide some protection from trauma and damage
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a vein that conducts blood from the digestive organs ,  spleen ,  pancreas ,  and gallbladder to the liver [ bto ]  .
soft tissue that lines the non - cartilaginous surfaces within joints with cavities  ( synovial joints )  .
a cranial nerve that originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the deepest layer of the epidermis ,  which is composed of dividing stem cells and anchoring cells
the layer of polyhedral cells in the epidermis found between the stratum granulosum and stratum basale ;  shrinkage and adhesion of these cells gives a spiny or prickly appearance
the outer layer of the epidermis ,  consisting of several layers of flat keratinized non - nucleated cells
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
the simple columnar epithelial lining of the gall bladder .
projection of skin containing the outlets for 15 - 20 lactiferous ducts arranged cylindrically around the tip .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a tiny smooth muscle that connects the hair follicle with the dermis .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa behind the brain stem .
predominantly gray matter midbrain structure lying dorsal to the crus cerebri and ventral to the midbrain tegmentum .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
an endothelium that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a two - lobed endocrine gland found in all vertebrates ,  located in front of and on either side of the trachea in humans ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin [ bto ]  .
the pontine raphe nucleus is one of the raphe nuclei .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick capsule of dense irregular connective tissue that surrounds each adrenal gland and contains scattered elastic fibers ;  the capsule contains a rich plexus of blood vessels  ( mainly small arteries )  and numerous nerve fibers ;  some blood vessels and nerves enter the substance of the gland in the trabeculae that extend inward from the capsule and then leave the trabeculae to enter the cortex .
the narrow subcapsular outer zone of the adrenal cortex where aldosterone is produced
each renal artery gives off some small inferior suprarenal branches to the suprarenal gland ,  the ureter ,  and the surrounding cellular tissue and muscles .
the femoral artery is a large artery in the muscles of the thigh .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
the endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves [ go ]  .
the sinus venosus is a large cardiac chamber at the inflow tract that receives venous blood from systemic circulation .
the umbilical vein is a blood vessel present during fetal development that carries oxygenated blood from the placenta to the growing fetus .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
the layer of flattened cells containing basophilic granules of keratohyalin and lying just above the stratum spinosum  ( spiny layer )  of the epidermis
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
a tube - like opening in the epidermis where the hair shaft develops and into which the sebaceous glands open [ go ]  .
the main part of the hair which is composed of trichocytes and is divided into the cortex and medulla .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
smooth and glossy outer protective cell layer of hair shaft
a cortex that is part of a hair  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
companion vein of the thoracodorsal artery ,  draining the apical part of the latissimus dorsi and merging with the circumflex scapular vein to form a subscapular vein
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the outer of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity ;  consists of two layers including the periosteal layer and the meningeal layer .
a dura mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
anatomical organ component composed of a double layer of serous membrane that suspends a viscus from the body wall or connects adjacent viscera and in doing so conveys blood vessels ,  lymphatics and nerves to and from the viscera .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
a paired appendage that is evolved from a paired fin .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pectoral girdle .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pelvic girdle region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
subdivision of digestive tract that connects the stomach to the large intestine and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place  ( with the exception of ruminants )  .
pair of nostrils .
an organ that aids digestion and stores bile produced by the liver [ wp ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
the first part of the small intestine .
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon
an ovary that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ovary that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
the fibrous connective tissue surrounding the thymus .
the outer part of a thymus lobule that surrounds the medulla and is composed of closely packed lymphocytes
medullary portion of thymus .the reticulum is coarser than in the cortex ,  the lymphoid cells are relatively fewer in number ,  and there are found peculiar nest - like bodies ,  the concentric corpuscles of hassall .
a lobule that is part of a thymus .
a a collection of brainstem nuclei that functions in multiple aspects of hearing and is an important component of the ascending and descending auditory pathways of the auditory system .
the superficial gray matter of the cerebellum .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
nucleus containing parasympathetic neurons giving rise to the parasympathetic division of the facial nerve ,  innervating the salivary glands  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 703 )  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
the small terminal dilation of the alveolar ducts around which the alveoli form pocket - like clusters
the respiratory conducting tubes distal to the respiratory bronchiole that lead to the alveolar sacs and the alveoli
the white substance of the spinal cord lying on either side between the ventral median fissure and the ventral roots of the spinal nerves .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
the conducting airway of the lungs found terminal to the bronchi ;  these structures contain neither cartilage nor mucous - secreting glands ;  the epithelium of the bronchioles becomes thinner with each branching
the last conducting structure of non - respiratory bronchioles ;  after this point ,  the airways have alveoli in their walls
a bronchiole that is the first segment of the respiratory zone .
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
part of the hippocampal formation that is bounded by the entorhinal cortex and area ca1 .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
capsule surrounding lymph node composed of connective tissue with some plain muscle fibers .
the glandular ,  anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
the posterior part of the pituitary gland that secretes hormones involved in blood pressure regulation such as oxytocin and antidiuretic hormon .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a trachea .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
one of two hemispherical bulges on the base of the posterior hypothalamus  ( butler and hodos ,  comparative vertebrate neuroanatomy ,  2nd ed . ,  2005 ,  pg 455 )  .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments .
a continuation of the neuron projection bundle component of a nerve inside ,  crossing or immediately outside the central nervous system .
the oval neuroepithelial sensory receptor in the anterior wall of the saccule ;  hair cells of the neuroepithelium support the statoconial membrane and have terminal arborizations of vestibular nerve fibers around their bodies
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
the neuroepithelial sensory receptor in the inferolateral wall of the utricle ;  hair cells of the neuroepithelium support the statoconial membrane and have terminal arborizations of vestibular nerve fibers around their bodies ;  normally sensitive to linear acceleration in the longitudinal axis of the body and to gravitational influences
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by hyaline cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by fibrocartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
the organ of corti  ( or spiral organ )  is the organ in the inner ear of mammals that contains auditory sensory cells ,  or 'hair cells .'
an intersegmental rod - shaped bone that forms in the peritoneal membrane and attach to the vertebral parapophyses .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a rib that is ventrally connected to the sternum .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
endoskeletal elements that encase the brain ,  nose ,  inner ear [ cjm ]  .
the jelly - like substance in the middle of the spinal disc which is a remnant of the notochord
an organ thought to supplement the olfactory system in receiving pheromonic communication .
the pronounced ,  dorsolaterally oriented ridge of grey matter in each lateral half of the spinal cord [ mp ]  .
the ventral grey column of the spinal cord [ mp ]  .
the dorsal roots contain afferent sensory axons .
a bulbous anterior projection of the olfactory lobe that is the place of termination of the olfactory nerves and is especially well developed in lower vertebrates  ( as fishes )  [ bto ]  .
white matter tract that contains projections from the olfactory bulb to other parts of the brain
an organ that houses olfactory neurons and is responsible for the sense of smell .
a composite substructure of the brainstem that consists of the midbrain reticular formation ,  the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
the osseous spiral lamina consists of two plates of bone ,  and between these are the canals for the transmission of the filaments of the acoustic nerve .
the fluid - filled space separating the membranous from the osseous labyrinth .
the upper portion of the spiral ligament contains numerous capillary loops and small blood vessels ,  and is termed the stria vascularis .
a brain ventricle that is part of a telencephalon .
choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle
organ system subdivision that consists of the organs and ducts that are involved in the production and transportation of bile .
the division of the spiral canal of the cochlea that contains the organ of corti  ( the neuroepithelial receptor organ for hearing ) 
the mesentery that originates from the dorsal side of the peritoneal cavity [ zfa ]  .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
spherical outcropping of the respiratory bronchioles and primary site of gas exchange with the blood .
one of the layers of the neocortex .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
an anatomical structure which consists of juxtaglomerular cells ,  extraglomerular mesangial cells and the macula densa .
one of the three layers of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation .
the layers of the laminar structure of the hippocampus .
mucus produced in the nasal cavity ,  by the respiratory segment of the nasal mucosa .
part of choroid plexus contained in the lateral ventricle
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
regional part of fornix consisting of a prominent white matter structure adjacent to the hippocampus on the ventricular side continuous with the alveus .
a cytoarchitectural term denoting the layer of the hippocampus in which pyramidal cells are predominant .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
neural tissue consisting of myelinated axons connecting grey matter areas of the central nervous system .
the regions of the spinal cord that are largely or entirely composed of myelinated nerve cell axons and contain few or no neural cell bodies or dendrites .
the inner layer of the glomerulus ,  within the basement membrane surrounding the glomerular capillaries .
a thin membrane which helps to support the capillary loops in a renal glomerulus .
the tissue comprised of mesangial cells that fill the triangular space between the macula densa and the afferent and efferent arterioles of the juxtaglomerular apparatus
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
any muscle organ that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the urethra is a renal system organ that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body .
a lamina propria that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the connecting cord from the developing embryo to the placenta .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
the macula densa is an area of specialized cells in the distal tubule that makes contact with the vascular pole of the glomerulus [ go ]  .
the layer of connective tissue comprised of the endometrial lining of the uterus which fluctuates in thickness throughout the menstrual cycle .
a lamina propria that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
set of all muscles in abdomen .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
the part of the cardiac conduction system that controls the timing of heart muscle contraction .
an area of conducting tissue between the atria and the ventricles of the heart that conducts the normal electrical impulse from the atria to the ventricles .
a part of the his - purkinje system that transmits signals from the av node to the cardiac purkinje fibers [ go ] 
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
membrane organ that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord .
the innermost layer of the leptomeninges ,  consisting of a delicate membrane closely covering the surface of the brain and spinal cord , and lying under the arachnoid membrane .
a think avascular meningeal layer ,  between the pia mater and the dural mater .
thick ,  fibrous meningeal covering surrounding the brain and spinal cord .
a thin membrane that separates the external ear from the middle ear ,  consisting of two epithelia  ( one part of the the external accoustic meatus epithelium ,  the other part of the tympanic cavity epithelium )  with a fibrous layer between them .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
the prostate gland is a partly muscular ,  partly glandular body that is situated near the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
either of a pair of complex endocrine organs near the anterior medial border of the kidney consisting of a mesodermal cortex that produces glucocorticoid ,  mineralocorticoid ,  and androgenic hormones and an ectodermal medulla that produces epinephrine and norepinephrine [ bto ]  .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
the soft tissue that fills the cavities of bones
either of the two small almond - shaped masses of lymph tissue found on either side of the oropharynx
a bone that is part of the metacarpal skeleton .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
any muscle that is part of the cervical  ( neck )  region .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
a large superficial muscle that extends longitudinally from the occipital bone to the lower thoracic vertebrae and laterally to the spine of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  .
the pectoralis major is a thick ,  fan - shaped muscle ,  situated at the upper front of the chest wall .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
the middle limb segment of the pectoral free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
distal portion of the hind limb ,  including tarsal region ,  metatarsal region and digits .
a digit that is part of a manus  ( hand )  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
lymph is the fluid that is formed when interstitial fluid enters the conduits of the lymphatic system through lymph capillaries [ wp ]  .
the paired channels leading from the lacrimal sacs to the inferior meatus of the nose ,  through which tears are conducted through the nasal cavity
any of the ducts that form the biliary tree ,  carrying bile from the liver to the small intestine .
distal segment of the fore limb ,  including carpal region ,  metacarpal region and digits .
the outer serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the inner serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the fluid - filled cavity that lies between the visceral and parietal pleurae .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
the autonomic nervous system is composed of neurons that are not under conscious control ,  and is comprised of two antagonistic components ,  the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems .
the small ,  erectile body located at the anterior end of the vulva
the ossified form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a vertebra that is located in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
an external caudal extension of the body .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an individual member of a collection of basal ganglia .
hippocampus  ( proper )  plus dentate gyrus and subiculum [ definition derived from nif comments and ontology alignment ]  .
part of the ventricular system of the brain ,  forming a single large irregularly shaped cavity located on the midline of the rhombencephalon ,  between the medulla ,  pons and the isthmus ventrally and the cerebellum dorsally .
the part of the digestive system that contains the liver and the biliary system
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cervical lymph nodes are lymph nodes found in the neck .
a region of the forebrain consisting of the caudate nucleus ,  putamen and fundus striati .
white matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a large sesamoid bone found in the distal femur / proximal tibial region of the hindlimb of tetrapods .
the maternal uterine - derived portion of the placenta
the mucous secreting gland associated with the mucuous membrane lining the uterus .
an artery that supplies the anterior chest wall and the breasts .
the small branching sprouts of the dorsal aorta that grow across the medial surface of the somite ,  turn right angles to grow over that surface and then fuse with other sprouts and form the vertebral arteries adjacent to the neural tube ;  the intersomitic arteries supply the body wall and persist in the adult as the posterior intercostal ,  subcostal and the lumbar arteries
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
a tributary of the iliac vein that drains the urinary bladder .
the lymphatic system in vertebrates is a network of conduits that carry a clear fluid called lymph .
clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls .
a mucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
terminal segment of free limb ,  immediately distal to the zeugopod region .
the middle free limb segment ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
the proximal free limb segment .
the bone that is situated in the orbit on either side of the presphenoid ;  it generally forms a part of the sphenoid in the adult ,  and may be independent in the young
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
bone tissue that has a regular parallel alignment of collagen into sheets  ( lamellae )  and is mechanically strong .
the medullary cavities of the bones where bone marrow is stored
the minute canals that pass the prostatic secretions to the urethra .
long bone is a limb bone that is subcylindrical and has a shaft with periosteum separating the ends of the bones .
region of the scapula where the latter meets with the clavicle: attachment point of the clavicle to the scapula in some taxa .
a rough elevation at the middle of the lateral side of the shaft of the humerus to which the deltoid muscle attaches
the labyrinth is a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lymph nodes located in the mesentery ,  of which there are 3 classes: ileocolic ,  juxtaintestinal mesenteric ,  and central superior group .
a transient endocrine gland that develops from the postovulatory or atretic follicles and secretes progesterone ;  it is thought to be related to egg retention [ pmid ]  .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
the thick fibrous membrane that closely invests the entire surface of a bone except the articular cartilage at synovial joints
the base of skull is the most inferior area of the skull ,  composed of the endocranium and lower parts of the skull roof .
the crystalline particles composed of calcium carbonate and a protein which adhere to the gelatinous membrane of the maculae of the utricle and saccule  ( otolithic membrane ) 
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
a lymph node that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a major subdivision of a mature or developing limb ,  including both skeletal elements  ( or the mesenchyme that gives rise to the skeletal elements )  and associated tissues ,  such as muscle ,  connective tissue ,  integument .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
sense organ embedded in the integument and consisting of one or a cluster of sensory neurons and associated sensory structures ,  support cells and glial cells forming a single organised unit with a largely bona - fide boundary .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
a line of sensory organs and associated structures along the sides of fish and amphibia that detect vibrations and pressure changes .
a subdivision of the autopod that has as part a series of phalanges together with associated vasculature ,  musculature ,  integument and nerves .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
the cavity that is enclosed by the central nervous system .
part of cerebral hemisphere located on the medial surface ,  forming a ring around the brain stem
the cochlear nuclei consist of:  ( a )  the dorsal cochlear nucleus ,  corresponding to the tuberculum acusticum on the dorso - lateral surface of the inferior peduncle ;  and  ( b )  the ventral or accessory cochlear nucleus ,  placed between the two divisions of the nerve ,  on the ventral aspect of the inferior peduncle .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
collection of nerve cells in the medial forebrain lying generally in front of the anterior commissure  ( maryann martone )  .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a cervical region .
either of the two roots that come of the vestibulocochlear nerve
a region of the brain consisting of ventral and rostral subcortical regions of the telencephalon ,  including among others ,  the basal ganglia ,  septal nuclei ,  amygdala ,  ventral pallidum ,  substantia innominata ,  and basal nucleus of meynert .
a regional part of brain that is part of a cerebellar cortex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the hypothalamus posterior to the middle region consisting of several nuclei including the medial mamillary nucleus ,  lateral mamillary nucleus ,  and posterior hypothalamic nucleus  ( posterior hypothalamic area )  .
parietal lobe of the left hemisphere of the brain
parietal lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain
a limbic lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a limbic lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the left side of a brain .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the right side of a brain .
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the eighth cranial nerve during embryogenesis ;  splits in later development to form the cochlear and vestibular ganglia
a dorsal root ganglion that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
nucleus forming a longitudinal cell column in the medulla ,  close beneath the floor of the 4th ventricle ,  containing motor neurons that innervate the muscles of the tongue  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 453 ) 
the deep groove which separates the two hemispheres of the vertebrate brain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a trigeminal nuclear complex .
a sensory epithelium that is part of a gustatory system .
a cellular layer of the dentate gyrus enclosed by the granule cell layer .
the granular layer is the innermost layer of the cerebellar cortex .
dorsal portion of the pons ,  containing cranial nervee nuclei ,  ascending and descending tracts and reticular nuclei .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the thoracic nerves are the spinal nerves emerging from the thoracic vertebrae .
a nerve fiber that is part of a trigeminal nerve .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
an epithelial sac of invaginated ectoderm formed from the otic placode that gives rise to the structures of the inner ear [ mp ] 
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
in mammals ,  the pronephric duct is the predecessor of the wolffian duct [ wp ]  .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
the second pharyngeal arch will form the hyoid apparatus .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
paired organ that connects the primitive kidney wolffian body  ( or mesonephros )  to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the tail .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
the initial thyroid precursor ,  the thyroid primordium ,  starts as a simple midline thickening and develops to form the thyroid diverticulum .
the narrow ,  proximal portion of the optic vesicle which connects the embryonic eye and forebrain
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue composed of mesenchymal cells  ( motile cells that develop from epthelia via an epithelial to mesenchymal transition )  and surrounding extracellular material .
anatomical cluster that forms the floor and sidewalls of the middle part of the cranium .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton [ zfa , modified ]  .
the third branchial arch contributes to the development of the hyoid bone ,  stylopharyngeus muscle ,  inferior parathyroid gland ,  and thymus .
contributes to development of the cartilage of the larynx ,  laryngeal ,  pharyngeal ,  and soft palate muscles ,  superior parathyroid gland ,  and c - cells of the thymus
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the second pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the third pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the outermost extraembryonic membrane
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
a respiratory airway that is part of an open tracheal system .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an organ involved in reproduction
a female organ involved in reproduction
a male organ involved in reproduction
barrier in the choroid plexus located in the lateral ,  third ,  and fourth brain ventricles that controls the entrance of substances into the cerebrospinal fluid from the blood [ mp ]  .
any sense organ that functions in  ( some )  detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 )  .
a sac - like structure that is found in the mature gland [ go ]  .
organ part that has the form of a hollow cavity [ wp ]  .
septum that divides the ovary ,  the basal portion of a carpel or group of fused carpels ,  that encloses the ovule ( s )  [ go ]  .
one of the two embryological structures that give rise to the kidney  ( the other is the ureteric bud )  .
endochondral bones that are often elongate and arranged in rows of articulating elements ,  and form the visible part of the digits .
an epithelium that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a utricle of membranous labyrinth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a saccule of membranous labyrinth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cochlear duct of membranous labyrinth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer of the luminal surfaces of the mammary gland
an epithelium that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a footplate .
an epithelium that is part of a otic placode  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs in an organism connected to the sternum and the vertebrae .
the neck of the rib is the flattened portion which extends lateralward from the head ;  it is about 2 .5 cm .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from endoderm and lines the yolk sac .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a thyroid primordium .
a mesenchyme that is part of a amnion .
a mesenchyme that is part of a chorion .
a calcareous tooth that is part of the lower jaw region .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
an endothelium that is part of a trachea .
the portion of the primitive mesentery that encloses the stomach ;  from its dorsal sheet ,  the greater omentum develops ,  and from its ventral sheet ,  the lesser omentum .
a mesentery that surrounds the heart .
a mesentery that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
any gland that is part of the diencephalon .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing testis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing ovary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from mesoderm and consists of mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the carpal skeleton .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pinna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing mammary gland .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a footplate .
a submucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
a submucosa that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
a ganglion that is part of a central nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a vomeronasal organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pelvic appendage bud .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pectoral appendage bud .
an ectoderm that is part of a footplate .
a extraembryonic structure that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a chorion .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pleural cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a urinary system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the mucous ,  serous ,  or mixed glands that empty their secretions onto the surface of the tongue .
mesenchyme that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing vomeronasal organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gelatinous substance within the umbilical cord ,  largely made up of mucopolysaccharides  ( hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate )  .
a lymph node that is located in a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that innervates an eyelid .
any nerve that innervates the iris .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a nerve that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is located in a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a peyer's patch that is part of a large intestine .
nodular lymphoid structures on the serosal surface of the small intestine .
a loop of henle that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the region of the forelimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is connected via a shoulder joint  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb region .
a bone that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ureteral branches of renal artery are small branches which supply the ureter .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that supplies blood to the cerebellum .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
one of the arteries supplying a meninix [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of lymphoid tissue that is part of a thymus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a camera - type eye .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a holocrine gland of the dermis that secretes sebum into hair follicles .
a lactiferous gland that is part of the abdominal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an lymphatic vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve trunk that is part of a vagus nerve .
an alveolar duct that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an alveolar duct that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a respiratory bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a respiratory bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the regions of the brain that are largely or entirely composed of myelinated nerve cell axons and contain few or no neural cell bodies or dendrites .
a macula densa that is part of a distal convoluted tubule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the innermost of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity that is firmly attached to the glial capsule .
a pia mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a forebrain .
a dura mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trachea .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous supportive tissue of the mammary gland .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hand  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ring - shaped cartilaginous structures that support the trachea
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a mesopodial skeleton .
any joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that attaches to an eyelid .
any muscle organ that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that attaches to a tail vertebra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a collection of teeth arranged in some pattern in the mouth or other part of the body .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments  ( scant amount of collagenous dense connective tissue )  .
in anatomy ,  in the occipital bone ,  the foramen magnum is one of the several oval or circular apertures in the base of the skull ,  through which the medulla oblongata  ( an extension of the spinal cord )  enters and exits the skull vault .
a fold of peritoneum originating at the stomach and supporting the viscera .
the outermost part of the spinal canal .
any joint connecting the acromonion of the scapula and clavicle .
the metacarpophalangeal joints  ( mcp )  are of the condyloid kind ,  formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones into shallow cavities on the proximal ends of the first phalanges ,  with the exception of that of the thumb ,  which presents more of the characters of a ginglymoid joint .
the metatarsophalangeal articulations are the joints between the metatarsal bones of the foot and the proximal bones of the toes  .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
passages external to the liver for the conveyance of bile .
passages within the liver for the conveyance of bile .
a circle of arteries that supply blood to the brain .
the left and right brachiocephalic veins in the upper chest are formed by the union of each corresponding internal jugular vein and subclavian vein .
a vein arising from the splenic trabecular vein in the hilum of the spleen that drains into the portal vein .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
the major nerves supplying sympathetic innervation to the abdomen ,  including the greater ,  lesser ,  and lowest  ( or smallest )  splanchnic nerves that are formed by preganglionic fibers from the spinal cord which pass through the paravertebral ganglia and then to the celiac ganglia and plexuses and the lumbar splanchnic nerves carry fibers which pass through the lumbar paravertebral ganglia to the mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia .
a branch of the vagus nerve that supplies motor function and sensation to the larynx  ( voice box )  .
the lingual nerve is a branch of the mandibular nerve  ( cn v3 )  ,  itself a branch of the trigeminal nerve ,  which supplies sensory innervation to the tongue .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the head and neck where it innervates skin and muscle .
the twelve spinal nerves on each side of the thorax .
the intercostal nerves are the anterior divisions  ( rami anteriores ;  ventral divisions )  of the thoracic spinal nerves from t1 to t11 .
the central part of the thoracic cavity enclosed by the left and right pleurae .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a region of the fetal urogenital sinus epithelium destined to become the prostate [ go ]  .
a bone of the metapodial skeleton
the part of the forelimb between pectoral region and the elbow ,  corresponding to the humerus .
the middle limb segment of the pelvic free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle tissue that is part of the urethra .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin of body that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of an autopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
epithelium that is part of a developing tooth or dental organ .
an epithelium that is part of a thymus ,  forming a supporting framework [ mp , modified ]  .
a artery that supplies a thyroid gland .
in medicine ,  gonadal vein refers to the blood vessel that carrying blood away from the gonad  ( testis ,  ovary )  toward the heart .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a telencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a diencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme enclosed by a dental organ that gives rise to an odontogenic papilla .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
posterior part of a vertebra that consists of a pair of pedicles and a pair of laminae ,  and supports seven processes: four articular processes ,  two transverse processes one spinous process [ wp ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a ganglion .
a mesentery that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
initial section of the oviduct through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus
paired ducts of the embryo that run down the lateral sides of the urogenital ridge and terminate at the mullerian eminence in the primitive urogenital sinus .
connective ,  non - functional supportive framework of a biological cell ,  tissue ,  or organ .
a cover or envelope partly or wholly surrounding a structure .
a small endodermal thickening in the foregut adjacent to the transverse septum .
one of the skeletal muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue in the trunk .
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
small blood vessel similar to a capillary but with a fenestrated endothelium .
wide vessels in the spleen that drain into trabecular veins [ wp ]  .
the epithelial component of the choroid plexus .
hard bony ,  calcareous ,  or chitinous organ found in the mouth or pharynx of an animal and used in procuring or masticating food .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
kidney mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the kidney [ go ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
embryonic structure that develops into pancreatic bud .
the embryonic pancreas develops from two separate anlagen in the foregut epithelium ,  one dorsal and two ventral pancreatic buds [ pmid ]  .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the accessory pancreatic duct .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the major pancreatic duct .
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
white matter that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
a cartilage element that is part of the cranial skeleton .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
the sensory system for the sense of touch and pain .
the placental layers where embryonic blood vessels are surrounded by trophoblast cells and maternal blood
the brain ventricles or their associated choroid plexuses
the anterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the posterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the structures associated with drainage of the aqueous humor from the eye ,  that include the trabecular meshwork ,  schlemm's canal ,  the uveoscleral network ,  and the aqueous veins
an anastomosing network of delicate tubules located in the hilum of the testicle  ( mediastinum testis )  that carries sperm from the seminiferous tubules to the vasa efferentia [ wp ]  .
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
blood vessels of the layer of the placenta where embryonic and maternal blood vessels interdigitate
the internal feminine genital organs ,  including the ovaries ,  uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  uterine cervix ,  and vagina .
one of a set of deep furrows which divide the lobules of the cerebellum .
a conical pouch formed from the upper and left angle of the right ventricle in the chordate heart ,  from which the pulmonary artery arises [ wp ]  .
the funnel - like expansion of the abdominal extremity of the uterine tube [ mp ] 
the dense region demarcating the thymus medulla from the surrounding cortex that is characterized by numerous blood vessels  ( predominantly arterioles )  with some perivascular connective tissue ,  mature and immature t lymphocytes ,  dendritic cells ,  variable numbers of perivascular b - lymphocytes and plasma cells ;  site of entry of bone marrow stem cells and exit of mature ,  functional t cells
the subclasses of motor neurons which are organized into longitudinally oriented columns that occupy distinct and ,  in some cases ,  discontinuous domains along the rostrocaudal axis of the spinal cord ;  motor neurons within a single column send their axons to a common peripheral target
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
the transient outer neural tube region that contains the first generated post - mitotic neurons that receive synaptic input from thalamic axons and in turn project axons to the developing cortical plate
the region of the developing mammalian cortex that extends between the ventricular zone and the cortical plate  ( cp )  ;  normally ,  the iz is a region of tangential migration of cells ,  and at midgestation ,  the lower part of the iz develops into the subventricular zone
the nodules of small undifferentiated b lymphocytes and follicular dendritic cells located in the spleen white pulp
the nodules of antigen - activated ,  differentiating b cells ,  follicular dendritic cells ,  antigen - presenting t cells and macrophages in the spleen white pulp
the spherical enlargement at the base of each semicircular canal where they connect with the utricle ,  containing the crista ampullaris which detects movement of the fluid within the canals
the extraembryonic tissue that is responsible for the proper orientation of the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo and for appropriate patterning of adjacent embryonic tissue
the external masculine genital organs ,  including the penis and scrotum
the internal masculine genital organs ,  including the testes ,  epididymides ,  deferent ducts ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  ejaculatory ducts ,  and bulbourethral glands
one of the fine terminal elements of the bile duct system ,  leaving the portal canal ,  and pursuing a course at the periphery of a lobule of the liver [ bto ]  .
the subclasses of motor neurons which project their axons to axial muscles that lie close to the vertebral column ;  motor neurons in the lateral subdivision of the mmc project their axons to body wall muscles
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
the unpaired embryonic prominence that is formed by the tissues surrounding the forebrain vesicle and develops into the forehead and bridge of the nose / snout .
the lateral area of the two branches of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it separates the olfactory pit from the developing eye and the ala of the nose / snout develops from it
the central area of the two limbs of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling that lie medial to the olfactory placode or pit in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it joins with the ipsilateral maxillary prominence in the formation of half of the upper jaw ,  and the nasal tip and philtrum of the upper lip develop from it
one of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord ,  that like it are derived from the medullary canal of the embryo ,  that are lined with an epithelial ependyma ,  and that contain a serous fluid
any of the veins that carries deoxygenated blood from a part of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
joint cavity shared by all the joints of the elbow .
one of the two jaw ridges either on the roof of the mouth between the upper teeth and the hard palate or on the bottom of the mouth behind the lower teeth [ wp ]  .
the outer or sperficial part of the humerus .
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a muscle of the tympanic cavity that attaches to an auditory ossicle .
small cavity surrounding the bones of the middle ear .
a blood vessel that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an internal pocketing of pharyngeal endoderm that contacts a region of ectoderm  ( a pharyngeal cleft )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions with the pharyngeal arches .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
cartilage that will provide a scaffold for mineralization of endochondral bones as they elongate or grow .
a cortical cell layer of the cerebellum .
in mammals ,  the proximal tubule is a nephron tubule that connects bowman's capsule to the loop of henle .
the distal tubule is a nephron tubule that consists of the distal convoluted tubule and distal straight tubule segments
the intermediate tubule is a nephron tubule that lies between the proximal and distal tubules
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
the his - purkinje system receives signals from the av node and is composed of the fibers that regulate cardiac muscle contraction in the ventricles
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
a jaw muscle that arises from cranial mesenchyme and is innervated by cranial nerves .
the internal genitalia are the internal sex organs such as the uterine tube ,  the uterus and the vagina in female mammals ,  and the testis ,  seminal vesicle ,  ejaculatory duct and prostate in male mammals
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
a saclike structure of the prostate gland ,  comprised of at least three cell layers: an innermost layer of secretory columnar luminal epithelium ,  a middle layer of squamous basal epithelium that also contains neuroendocrine cells ,  transit amplifying cells ,  and stem cells ,  and an outer layer of smooth muscle intermixed with other stromal cells
the mammary fat is an adipose structure in the gland that is invaded by the mammary ducts
the solid cord of epithelial cells that emerges from the mammary bud and grows down from the primary mammary mesenchyme and into a second stromal compartment ,  the fat pad precursor ,  beneath the dermis .
the embryonic vessels grow through the layer to come in close contact with the maternal blood supply
the prostate gland stroma is made up of the mesenchymal or fibroblast cells of the prostate gland
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
the mitral cell layer is composed of pyramidal neurons whose cell bodies are located between the granule cell layer and the plexiform layer
the glomerular epithelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the outer surfaces of the glomerulus .
the glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus
the glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the glomerulus
a sub - portion of the loop of henle in the nephron of the kidney that is permeable to ions but not to water
the comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of the nephron
the s - shaped body is the successor of the comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of the nephron
kidney pyramids are the conical arrangements of tubules that constitute the renal medulla in a multi - lobed mammalian kidney ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts .
the inner stripe is a deep ,  centrally located portion of the renal outer medulla and is traversed by thick and thin portions of nephron tubules
the outer stripe is the region of the kidney that lies distal to the line of termination of the straight renal tubules
the cortical collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex
the outer medullary collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that lies in the renal outer medulla
the inner medullary collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that lies in the renal inner medulla
nephrogenic mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the nephron
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells .
the nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron
the small branching blood vessels in the kidney glomerulus that receives blood from the kidney afferent arterioles ;  these capillaries are under high pressure for filtering within the glomerulus
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the urothelium of the kidney pelvis
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a mammary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a spleen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the dorsal region of an animal .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb zeugopod  ( lower arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb stylopod  ( upper arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod  ( lower leg )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cranial suture that is part of a cartilaginous joint  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a lateral ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a fourth ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
an endothelium that is part of a glomerular capillary .
a nerve trunk that is part of a sympathetic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
distal - most phalanx within a digit .
a phalanx located between proximal and distal phalanges .
proximal - most phalanx within a digit .
a membranous sac that develops from the posterior part of the alimentary canal in the embryos of mammals ,  birds ,  and reptiles ,  and it is important in the formation of the umbilical cord and placenta in mammals [ vhog ]  .
the primitive streak is a structure that forms during the early stages of avian ,  reptilian and mammalian embryonic development [ wp ]  .
outermost layer of cells in the blastodermic vesicle ,  which will develop into the trophoblast layer and then contact the endometrium and take part in establishing the embryo's means of nutrition
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
multilayered ectodermal region at the distal tip of a limb or fin bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme [ mp , modified ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb or paired fin .
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
blood vessel that is connected to the yolk sac .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer found between the substantia propria and the endothelial layer of the cornea [ mp ]  .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
vascular network that is connected to the yolk sac .
a bone that is part of an appendage  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metaphysis that is in the distal side of a diaphysis .
a metaphysis that is in the proximal side of a diaphysis .
an epiphysis that is on the distal side of the bone .
an epiphysis that is on the proximal side of the bone .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb .
an epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a tibia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a distal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a proximal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a periosteum that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a tibia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper extremity of the humerus  ( proximal humerus )  consists of a large rounded head joined to the body by a constricted portion called the neck ,  and two eminences ,  the greater and lesser tubercles .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of three main pairs of arteries and their branches ,  which irrigate the cerebrum of the brain .
a vertebra in the trunk or cervical region .
a mesopodium that is part of a manus .
a metapodium region that is part of a manus .
mesopodial segment of the pes ,  including the tarsal skeleton and associated tissues .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg  /  thigh )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower leg or upper leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that acts on the pharynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the hip skeleton .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the shoulder skeleton .
the collection of muscles that are part of the larynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a deltoid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a trapezius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pectoralis major  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is attached to a vertebra of the vertebral column .
a portion of striated muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body or organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone tissue .
a testis that is in the left side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a testis that is in the right side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a network of blunt ended vessels lacking direct connection to the blood vascular system .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
a kidney that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a kidney that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the layer of secretory cells which lines the epididymis
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick circular layer of smooth gastric musculature encircling the gastroesophageal junction that functions to reduce backflow into the esophagus from the stomach
an artery that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
a structure ,  usually a circular muscle ,  that normally maintains constriction of a natural body passage or orifice and which relaxes as required by normal physiological functioning .
the capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
the blood vessels that branch from the kidney interlobular artery ,  convey blood to the glomerular capillaries ,  and play an important role in the regulation of blood pressure as a part of the tubuloglomerular feedback mechanism
the blood vessels that convey blood from the glomerulocapillary network to the capillary bed of the proximal convoluted tubule
the connective tissue that surrounds the spleen
the epithelial lining of the luminal space of the urinary bladder .
the polygonal structure of the liver that consists of hepatocytes radiating outward from a hepatic vein
a keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
the body or shaft of the humerus is almost cylindrical in the upper half of its extent ,  prismatic and flattened below ,  and has three borders and three surfaces .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
a muscular coat that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the membranous portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
one of: the 4th ventricle median or lateral apertures .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a trigeminal nerve .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a facial nerve .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a hypoglossal nerve .
the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus that is bounded by the pial surface superficially and the dentate gyrus granule cell layer deep .
the sensory system for the sense of balance .
the raphe nuclei are thin plates of cells in and immediately adjacent to the sagittal plane .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
an epithelium that is part of an external naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the specialized epithelium of the peyer's patch
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
area of the peyer's patch where b cells proliferate and differentiate into plasma cells
an endothelium that is part of a vena cava  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a depression or hollow in a bone [ wp ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
a stage that follows the blastula ,  gastrula and neurula stages .
an appendage that is part of an appendage girdle complex .
paired appendage that consists of the posterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pelvic girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
paired appendage that consists of the anterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pectoral girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the ring of fibrocartilage and fibrous tissue forming the circumference of the intervertebral disc ;  surrounds the nucleus pulposus ,  which is prone to herniation when the annulus fibrosus is compromised .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
any of the veins that parallel the arcuate arteries ,  receive blood from the interlobular veins and straight venules ,  and terminate in the interlobar veins .
the crista ampullaris is the sensory organ of rotation located in the semicircular canal of the inner ear .
the branches of the arcuate arteries of the kidney that radiate outward throught the renal columns and supply the glomeruli [ mp ]  .
in the blood supply of the kidney ,  the vasa recta renis  ( or straight arteries of kidney ,  or straight arterioles of kidney )  form a series of straight capillaries in the medulla .
a nerve in the head that carries signals from the cochlea of the inner ear to the brain .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
glomerulus of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or metanephros .
a collecting duct of renal tubule that is part of a metanephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
juxtaglomerular apparatus of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or metanephros .
the glomus forms from the splanchnic intermediate mesoderm and is the vascularized filtration unit ,  filtering the blood before it enters the tubules .
the dentary is a dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw in fishes and amphibians ,  extending to the whole lower jaw in mammals [ vhog , modified ]  .
skeletal element that consists of the scapula and the coracoid [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
a gland that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive cartilagionous skeletal structure of the fetal skull that grows to envelop the rapidly growing embyonic brain .
replacement bone tissue that forms within cartilage [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between the two epiphyses ,  excluding the metaphyses [ fma , modified ]  .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
opening / conduit between the nasal cavity and the nasopharynx [ aao ]  the choanae are separated by the vomer [ wp ]  .
a vasa recta that is part of a outer medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasa recta that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a lamina propria that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
an urothelium that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial lining of the luminal space of the kidney pelvis
a mucous gland that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
a secretion that is part of a endocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a exocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bodily secretion that is produced by the prostate gland .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oviduct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a salivary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the renal tubule luminar surfaces
an epithelium that is part of an endometrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a prepuce of penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the stratified epithelial lining of the seminiferous tubules ,  consisting of the developing spermatozoa and the supporting sertoli cells ,  which are tall ,  columnar type cells that line the tubule
an epithelium that is part of a upper respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lacrimal gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the kidney luminar surfaces
any epithelium that lines one of the bile ducts .
the epithelial layer of the alveoli [ mp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a extrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a intrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a medulla that is part of a thyroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle tissue in all or part of a hepatic duct .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a epididymis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a lymph node  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a mesentery that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a connective tissue that surrounds a skeletal muscle tissue .
a gland that is part of a eye .
an alveolus that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an alveolus that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sympathetic nerve trunk that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a part of the epithalamus present in some animal species .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the future body wall  -  underlies the ectoderm [ wp ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the urogenital ridge which is the source of much of the urinary system [ wp ]  .
one of of the pair of folds derived from the cloacal folds which give rise to a portion of the external genitalia ;  in male embryos they close over the urethral plate and fuse to form the spongy  ( penile )  urethra and ventral aspect of the penis ,  not including the glans ;  failure of fusion of the urethral folds leads to hypospadias ;  in female embryos they fuse only anterior to the anus and form the labia minora [ mp ]  .
visceral endoderm ,  a population of extraembyonic endoderm ,  is an extraembryonic tissue that functions in a regulatory capacity but does not contribute directly to the formation of any adult organs [ pmid:15905405 ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
a the thin septum that separates adjacent pulmonary alveoli ,  containing connective tissue constituents of the respiratory tissue and the capillary network of the blood supply of the lung .
a wall that contains the alveoli
alveolar smooth muscle is a type of non - striated muscle ,  found within the walls of the alveolus
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the mouth cavity through pharynx esophagus stomach and duodenum .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
an epithelium surrounding a testis .
an epithelium surrounding an ovary .
a dilation of the duodenal papilla that is the opening of the juncture of the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct .
one of the two small elevations on the mucosa of the duodenum ,  the major at the entrance of the conjoined pancreatic and common bile ducts and the minor at the entrance of the accessory pancreatic duct .
muscular valve that controls the flow of digestive juices  ( bile and pancreatic juice )  through the ampulla of vater into the second part of the duodenum .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a anal region .
a sphincter muscle surrounding the urethra .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a submucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an appendix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a transverse colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a fundus of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cardia of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a submucosa that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ejaculatory duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an appendix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a transverse colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fundus of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cardia of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a renal pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a trigone of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a male urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a female urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lacrimal sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a middle ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lacrimal canaliculus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of the tympanic cavity epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
a mucosa that is part of a nasolacrimal duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mediastinum testis is a network of fibrous connective tissue that extends from the upper to near the lower extremity of the testis ,  and is wider above than below .
an organ part that is part of a long bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external genitalia that is part of a female reproductive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organ that is part of a immune system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a forebrain and adjacent_to a midbrain .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
the portion of the ureteric bud tube that contributes to the morphogenesis of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud that contributes to the morphogenesis of the ureter .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
a bud - like thickening in the epidermis consisting of elongated keratinocytes ,  which at the distal end are in touch with numerous aggregated specialized dermal fibroblasts ,  the dermal condensate .
an tooth placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the tooth bud [ go ]  .
a sebaceous gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sebaceous gland bud [ go ]  .
an sweat gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sweat gland bud [ go ]  .
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
the descending thin limb is a part of the loop of henle situated just after the proximal straight tubule  ( s3 )  .
the connecting tubule is a tubular segment of the nephron ;  it connects the distal convoluted tubule to the collecting duct [ go ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a mesonephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metanephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
an epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure [ go ]  .
any smooth muscle tissue that is part of a metanephros .
a metanephric nephron is the functional unit of the metanephros [ go ]  .
metanephric pyramids are the conical masses that constitute the renal medulla in a metanephros ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts [ go ]  .
the metanephric ascending thin limb is a segment of a nephron tubule in the metanephros lying in the inner medulla that is permeable to ions but not to water and has a simple epithelium ;  active transepithelial solute transport is absent [ go ]  .
the metanephric cortical collecting duct is the portion of the metanephric collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex [ go ]  .
it extends to the tip of the metanephric loop of henle [ go ]  .
the metanephric distal convoluted tubule is a portion of the metanephric nephron tubule that connects the metanephric loop of henle to the collecting duct [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerular mesangium is the thin membrane connective tissue composed of mesangial cells in the metanephros ,  which helps to support the capillary loops in a renal glomerulus [ go ]  .
the metanephric macula densa is an area of specialized cells in the distal tubule of the metanephros that makes contact with the vascular pole of the glomerulus [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal convoluted tubule is the most proximal portion of the metanephric proximal tubule and extends from the metanephric glomerular capsule to the metanephric proximal straight tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal straight tubule is the part of the metanephric descending limb that extends from the metanephric proximal convoluted tubule to the metanephric descending thin tubule [ go ]  .
at the macula densa ,  the thick ascending limb connects to the distal convoluted tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric distal tubule is a metanephric nephron tubule that begins at the metanephric macula densa and extends to the metanephric connecting tubule [ go ]  .
the metanephric loop of henle is a metanephric nephron tubule that connects the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the metanephric glomerulus [ go ]  .
the metanephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a metanephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains 'feet' that interdigitate with the 'feet' of other glomerular epithelial cells in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the metanephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
this process pertains to the initial formation of a structure from unspecified parts [ go ]  .
the metanephric comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the metanephric s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a metanephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephric nephron ,  the functional part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the metanephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
the metanephric s - shaped body is the successor of the metanephric comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric connecting tubule is a tubular segment of the metanephric nephron ;  it connects the distal convoluted tubule to the collecting duct in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric proximal tubule is a metanephric nephron tubule that connects bowman's capsule to the descending thin limb of the loop of henle in the metanephros .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
a cord of epithelial cells without a lumen and usually several cells thick .
an open tracheal system is a respiratory system ,  a branched network of epithelial tubes that supplies oxygen to target tissues via spiracles .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
the functional tissue of the central nervous system consisting of neurons and glial cells .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
the distal part of the loop of henle that is impermeable to water and actively pumps sodium out of the filtrate to generate the hypertonic interstitium that drives countercurrent exchange ;  it consists of an initial very thin segment lined by simple squamous epithelium followed by a distal thick segment lined by simple cuboidal epithelium [ mp ]  .
the terminal portions of the medullary collecting ducts are the papillary ducts ,  which end at the renal papilla and empty into a minor calyx .
any of the veins that parallel the interlobular arteries ,  receiving blood from the peritubular capillary plexus and empty into the arcuate veins
connective tissue between the cellular elements of a structure .
any portion of the ducts that carry bile from the liver to the common bile duct .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that is part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a circumscribed mass of ectodermal cells which bud off from the dental lamina ;  it becomes cup - shaped and develops on its internal face the ameloblast layer of cells that produces the enamel cap of a developing tooth .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ or element that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
innermost layer of the hair shaft .
the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal medulla
an artery in males that provides blood to the vas deferens .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a germinal center that is part of the spleen .
a mammary gland that is part of a cervical region .
a lactiferous gland that is located in the thoracic region / breast .
a macula densa that is part of an ascending limb of loop of henle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a larynx submucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
stromal matrix surrounding blood vessels within the choroid plexus .
a capsule that is part of a tonsil  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a valve that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
tissue surrounding the loop of henle in the renal medulla .
the male gonad containing two functional parts: the seminiferous tubules for the production and transport of male germ cells  ( spermatogenesis )  and the interstitial compartment containing leydig cells that produce androgens . .
a portion of interstitial tissue that is part of a outer medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of interstitial tissue that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the interstitial compartment of the kidney ,  comprising the extravascular intertubular spaces of the renal parenchyma ,  with their attendant cellular elements and extracellular substances ,  bounded on all sides by epithelial and vascular basement membranes .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a right lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a left lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a medial nasal prominence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a renal pelvis that is part of a metanephros .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a yolk sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that supplies the renal cortex .
artery that receives blood from the renal cortex [ mp ,  modified ] 
a compartment of the renal cortex situated between basement membranes of epithelia and vessels that contains two contiguous cellular networks in mutual contact ,  one formed by interstitial fibroblasts ,  the other by dendritic cells .
the part of the renal cortex nearest to the medulla .
the tiny blood vessels that receive blood from the efferent arterioles of the glomerulus ,  and interact with superficial cortical nephrons allowing reabsorption and secretion between blood and the inner lumen of the nephron ;  peritubular capillaries are situated around the tubule and are at low pressure
a set of structures containing cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a structure found in the walls of the ventricles of the brain ,  consisting of part of the meninges  ( pia mater in mammals )  plus ependyma [ cjm ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the fourth ventricle [ zfa ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the telencephalic ventricle .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the elevation of thickened mesothelium and underlying mesenchyme found on the ventromedial border of the embryonic mesonephros in which the primordial germ cells become embedded ,  establishing it as the primordium of the testis or ovary
cordlike masses of epithelial tissue that invaginate from germinal epithelium of the gonad and give rise to seminiferous tubules and rete testes in the male ,  and primary ovarian follicles and rete ovarii in the female .
structures that develop from sex cords in the female .
the testis cords are precursors to the rete testis .
a zone of skin that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the clitoral glans .
a pronephric nephron is the functional unit of the pronephros [ go ]  .
the pronephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the pronephric nephron and connects the filtration unit  ( glomerulus or glomus )  of the pronephros to the pronephric duct [ go ]  .
the mammary placode is a transient lens shaped structure that will give rise to the mammary bud proper [ go ]  .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
the collecting duct is the final common path through which urine flows before entering the ureter and then emptying into the bladder [ go ]  .
the juxtaglomerular apparatus lies adjacent to the glomerulus and regulates kidney function by maintaining the blood flow to the kidney and the filtration rate [ go ]  .
a nephron that is part of a mesonephros .
mesonephric mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric macula densa is an area of specialized cells in the distal tubule of the mesonephros that makes contact with the vascular pole of the glomerulus [ go ]  .
the mesonephric glomerulus is a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the mesonephric glomerulus [ go ]  .
a mesonephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains 'feet' that interdigitate with the 'feet' of other glomerular epithelial cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the mesonephric s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
a mesonephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephric nephron ,  the functional part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the mesonephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
the mesonephric s - shaped body is the successor of the mesonephric comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
a bulb of epithelial cells that forms from the mammary placode that develops into the mammary gland .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
the outer neural tube region in which post - mitotic neuroblasts migrate along radial glia to form the adult cortical layers [ mp ]  .
the cord - like structure in males comprising the vas deferens and associated tissue that runs from the abdomen down to each testis [ mp ]  .
a layer in the central nervous system that lines system of communicating cavities in the brain and spinal cord .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve
the lobe at the anterior part of each cerebral hemisphere ,  responsible for olfactory functions .
layer that is part of the ca fields of the hippocampus consisting of a narrow relatively cell free layer located deep to the pyramidal cell layer extending through areas ca1 ,  ca2 and ca3 .
the layer located immediately above the pyramidal cell layer in ca2 and ca1 and superficial to the stratum lucidum in ca3 .
the area of white matter of the spinal cord located on either side of the ventral  ( anterior )  medial fissure
cytoarchitectural part of the olfactory bulb ,  lying superior to the mitral cell layer and inferior to the glomerular layer .
the glomerular layer is the most superficial layer ,  consisting of mitral cell dendritic arborizations  ( glomeruli )  ,  olfactory nerve fibers ,  and periglomerular cells .
granule cell layer is also called the dg principal cell layer .
an epithelium that lines the nasal cavity .
an epithelium that is part of the respiratory segment of the nasal mucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
that portion of the nasal mucosa containing the sensory endings for olfaction ;  the organ of smell [ mesh ]  .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
the most superficial layer of the neocortex characterized by a paucity of cell bodies .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
an arachnoid mater that surrounds a brain .
a sex gland that is part of a female reproductive system .
a sex gland that is part of a male reproductive system .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a telencephalon .
a gray matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
the adipose capsule of kidney  ( or perinephric fat or perirenal fat )  is a structure between the renal fascia and renal capsule ,  and may be regarded as a part of the latter .
any of any of the secretory or sensory organs located in the brain region around or in relation to the ventricular system that are characterized by extensive vasculature and a lack of a normal blood brain barrier  ( bbb )  and allow for the linkage between the central nervous system and peripheral blood flow .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a otic capsule endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the cartilage or bony capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb or pectoral fin .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb or pelvic fin .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
portion of tissue that is the outer layer of the optic cup and will become the retinal pigmented epithelium .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives [ zfa ]  .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
a segment of autopod that is part of a pes .
the foramen rotundum is a circular hole in the sphenoid bone that connects the middle cranial fossa and the pterygopalatine fossa .
a segment of autopod that is part of a manus .
the jugular foramen is a large aperture in the base of the skull .
a thymus lobe that is in the left side of a thymus .
an umbilical vein that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
a vitelline vein that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
an axial muscle that originates in the cervical vertebraae inserts on the scapula .
a space between the capsule and the cortex which allows the free movement of lymphatic fluid and so contains a sparsity of lymphocytes .
a thymus lobe that is in the right side of a thymus .
an umbilical vein that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a vitelline vein that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
trunk part of spinal nerve ,  where dorsal and ventral roots meet to form the spinal nerve ,  before branching off to dorsal and ventral rami .
a simple columnar epithelium that is part of a fundus of stomach .
a longitudinal groove in the neural tube wall that divides the neural tube into dorsal  ( alar )  and ventral  ( basal )  halves  ( dorsal receives input from sensory neurons ,  ventral effects motor functions )  ;  stretches from the mesencephalon caudad [ tmd ]  .
either of the two lateral lobes that constitute the thymus .
a venous channel found between layers of dura mater in the brain .
the paired veins that carry blood from the yolk sac back to the embryo
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production [ zfa ]  .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
somite located in the head region ,  caudal to the otic vesicle
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
the portion of mesentery attached to the greater curvature of the stomach is named the dorsal mesentery  ( or dorsal mesogastrium ,  when referring to the portion at the stomach )  ,  and the part which suspends the colon is termed the mesocolon .
any of the arteries that arise from a bifurcation of the aorta supplying the pelvic or abdomen .
any of the three veins including the common ,  external and internal iliac veins .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
artery that supplies blood to the adrenal glands .
the cavity formed by the tubotympanic recess epithelium .
portion of ventral mesentery closest to the stomach .
a vascular network formed by frequent anastomoses between the blood vessels  ( arteries or veins )  of a part .
intrinsic membrane that arises from embryonic germ layers and grow to surround the developing embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a caecum .
an epithelium that is part of a pylorus .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
a mesothelium that is part of a peritoneal cavity .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
a mesentery that is part of a caecum .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a midgut .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a caecum .
a orbitosphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a foregut .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a midgut .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a footplate .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb or paired fin [ gilbert , modified ]  .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
an opening in the skull through which cranial nerve ii passes .
the capillary loops of the kidney that normally function as a filtration unit [ mp ]  .
a single layer of simple squamous epithelium in the glomerular capsule .
the inner ,  or visceral ,  layer of the renal glomerular capsule ,  overlying the capillaries ,  composed of podocytes ,  and separated from the outer ,  or parietal ,  layer by the capsular  ( bowman's )  space [ bto ]  .
the metanephros develops from the most caudal part of the nephrogenic cord that is itself derived from the intermediate plate mesoderm .
the initial renal anlage that develops from the most rostral part of the nephrogenic cord is termed the pronephros .
the ridge of mesoderm covered with endoderm that in the early developing embryo partitions the endodermal cloaca into the primary urogenital sinus  ( ventrally )  and the anorectal canal of the hindgut  ( dorsally )  ;  the urorectal septum eventually fuses with the cloacal membrane ,  dividing it into a dorsal anal membrane and a larger ventral urogenital membrane  -  this area of fusion is represented in the adult by the perineal body [ mp ]  .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
the layer of extracellular matrix that lies between the endothelium of the glomerular capillaries and the podocytes of the inner or visceral layer of the bowman capsule ;  it is a fusion of the endothelial cell and podocyte basal laminas and acts as a physical barrier and an ion - selective filter
middle layer of the glomerular basement membrane .
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the glomerular capillary .
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the podocytes and capsular space .
nephric tubules  ( nephrons )  form embryonically along the nephric ridge .
any portion of the aorta including the ascending and descending aorta ,  and aortic arch or a portion of the aortic orifice of the left ventricle .
the dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body .
in the circulatory system of animals ,  a portal venous system occurs when a capillary bed drains into another capillary bed through veins ,  without first going through the heart .
a bone tissue that is part of a long bone .
the outer or sperficial part of a bone of the manus .
a round nodule ,  small eminence ,  or warty outgrowth found on bones ,  skin ,  or within the lungs in tuberculosis .
a fascicle that is part of a spinal cord .
a fascicle that is part of a brain .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a caudal region .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
the paired dorsal prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo that unite with the ipsilateral medial nasal process to form the upper jaw
an indentation of the olfactory placode which ends when the pits hollows out to form the nasopharynx [ go ]  .
a groove that is situated between the 1st and 2nd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal arch .
the embryonic anlage of the external genitalia ,  which emerges as paired swellings ventral to the cloacal membrane ,  is proposed to be derived from all three germ layers ,  and gives rise to the penis ,  clitoris ,  scrotum ,  labia ,  and foreskin
an external pocketing of pharyngeal ectoderm that contacts a region of endoderm  ( a pharyngeal pouch )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions by the pharyngeal arches .
a subdivision of the autopod that corresponds to one or more bones arranged in series branching from the main limb axis .
a subdivision of skeleton that supports pharyngeal arch 2 .
the epithelial lining of the surface of the coelom .
a bone that is part of the region of the hindlimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is part of the manus skeleton .
a bone that is part of the pes skeleton
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles .
each seminal vesicle consists of a single tube ,  coiled upon itself ,  and giving off several irregular cecal diverticula ;  the separate coils ,  as well as the diverticula ,  are connected together by fibrous tissue .
any of the ducts that are part of a male reproductive system .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
a serous sac which is the aggregate of the conjunctiva plus the conjunctival space
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
a naris that provides one of the small external openings of the head that give passage to air for breathing .
thickening of the proximal end of the hair follicle .
a multilayered tube composed of terminally differentiated hair follicle keratinocytes that is surrounded by the outer root sheath ;  the layers of the inner root sheath include the companion layer ,  henle's layer ,  huxley's layer and the inner root sheath cuticle [ mp ]  .
a stratified epithelium that surrounds the hair follicle that merges proximally with the basal layer of the interfollicular epidermis and distally with the hair bulb .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
a pore - like structure surrounding the entire circumference of the anterior chamber of the eye through which aqueous humor circulates [ mp ]  .
a sheet of somatopleure that grows upward over the embryo and eventually meets in the midline enclosing the embryo ,  eventually giving rise to the amnion and chorion [ kardong ]  .
the vertical crest of the interior wall of the right atrium that lies to the right of the sinus of the vena cava and separates this from the remainder of the right atrium
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
the left branch of the atrioventricular bundle that separates at the bundle of his ,  descends the septal wall of the left ventricle and connects to the terminal purkinje fiber [ mp ]  .
the right branch of the atrioventricular bundle that separates just below the bundle of his ,  descends the septal wall of the right ventricle and connects to the terminal purkinje fibers [ mp ]  .
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
the paired arteries that carry blood to the yolk sac from the dorsal aorta
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
the bulb region adjacent to the dermal papilla that contains rapidly proliferating matrix cells that give rise to the various cell lineages of the hair shaft and inner root sheath
a ring of ribrous tissue that surrounds the atrioventricular and arterial orifices
a collection of two or more connected limb segments .
a process projection from a part of the vertebra such as centrum or arches .
one of the cartilaginous structures surrounding the embryonic spinal cord ,  formed by the dorsal growth of the dorsolateral arcualia ;  it is the primordium of the vertebral arch .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod .
a bone that is part of a post - anal tail .
subdivision of an organism along anterior - posterior axis that is the posteriormost region ,  extending past the anus  ( or cloaca ,  if present )  ,  consisting of a tail in some fully formed chordates  ( or a tail bud in embryos )  .
that portion of the spine comprising the cervical vertebrae .
that part of the spine comprising the thoracic vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the caudal subdivision of the body ,  containing the caudal vertebrae .
a collection of all skeletal elements in some subdivision of the vertebral column .
the base or posterior surface of the urinary bladder contains the trigone of the bladder and the outlet where urine empties through the internal urethral orifice .
the deep nuclei of telencephalic origin found in the basal region of the forebrain
a funiculus of neuraxis that is part of a spinal cord .
the cerebrospinal nerves consist of numerous nerve fibers collected together and enclosed in membranous sheaths .
a threadlike extension of a nerve cell and consists of an axon and myelin sheath  ( if it is myelinated )  in the nervous system .
axons of neurons encased in a lipoproteinaceous material called myelin .
the mesonephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the mesonephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
the mesonephric glomerular mesangium is the thin membrane connective tissue composed of mesangial cells in the mesonephros ,  which helps to support the capillary loops in a renal glomerulus
the mesonephric connecting tubule is a tubular segment of the mesonephric nephron ;  it connects the distal tubule to the collecting duct in the mesonephros
the mesonephric distal tubule is a mesonephric nephron tubule that begins at the macula densa and extends to the mesonephric connecting tubule
the mesonephric proximal tubule extends from the capsule to the distal tubule
acute angle occurring between the iris and the cornea at the periphery of the anterior chamber of the eye [ mp ]  .
the spiral septum that separates the truncus arteriosus into a ventral pulmonary trunk and the dorsal aorta [ mp ]  .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 that develop into the folds of the pinna and gradually shift upwards and backwards to their final position on the head .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
the posterior section of the developing metencephalon recognized transiently within the vertebrate embryo ;  the rhombic lip extends posteriorly from the roof of the fourth ventricle to dorsal neuroepithelial cell and can be divided into eight structural units based on rhombomeres 1 - 8  ( r1 - r8 )  ,  recognized at early stages of hindbrain development ;  producing granule cells and five brainstem nuclei ,  the rhombic lip plays an important role in developing a complex cerebellar neural system
the membrane that covers the embryonic cloaca ,  formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm ;  the urorectal septum joins the cloacal membrane and divides it into an anal membrane and a urogenital membrane ;  the point where the urorectal septum intersects the cloacal membrane is the future site of the perineal body ;  proliferation of mesoderm and ectoderm around the cloacal membrane produces primordial tissues of the external genitalia in both sexes: the genital tubercle ,  genital folds ,  and genital swellings .
the foremost region of the future forebrain that develops into the diencephalon .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a female reproductive system .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the foregut and midgut .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain .
a sac - like cavity ventral to the liver ,  lying in the sub - mesodermal space and closed by a thin sheet of ectodermal cells ,  from which the future gall bladder develops .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a male reproductive system .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
groove between maxillary prominence and lateral nasal process .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
the pair of depressions of thickened otic placode epithelium ,  that further develops into the otic vesicles
each of the canals that links the peritoneal cavity and the caudal part of a pleural cavity .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
future brain vesicle that gives rise to telencephalic ventricle / lateral ventricles and 3rd ventricle
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a dense syncitial - like mesenchymal thickening in the dorsal mesogastrium [ isbn ]  .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a brainstem .
one of eight distinct lateral lines in the 4 - day larva .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a lateral ventricle .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a fourth ventricle .
a peritubular capillary that is part of a outer medulla of kidney .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
the unique bone located in the glans penis of most mammals except humans ;  it is used for copulation and varies in size and shape by species
the ossified region of endochondral and membranous bone located in the clitoris of most mammals except humans ;  it is homologous to the penile bone  ( aka as baculum ,  penis bone or os penis )  in male mammals
a ring of fibrous or fibrocartilaginous tissue  ( as of an intervertebral disk or surrounding an orifice of the heart )  .
system pertaining to a bronchus and alveoli .
a substance formed from the secretion of one or more glands of the male genital tract in which sperm cells are suspended .
any region of a nephron tubule that is convoluted .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a male reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a female reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
a substance that is secreted by a mammary gland .
a loop of henle that is part of a kidney outer medulla inner stripe .
a loop of henle that is part of a kidney outer medulla outer stripe .
a vasculature that is part of a kidney .
a tube in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
an organ system subdivision that is a network of vessels capable of removing accumulating protein and fluid from the interstitial space and returning it to the vascular space .
an organ system subdivision that is the part of the lymphoid system that excludes the lymphatic vessels . .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
a urethral meatus that is part of a female urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a hypothalamus .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a diencephalon .
the pectinate line  ( anocutaneous line ,  dentate line ,  anorectal junction )  is a line which divides the upper 2 / 3rds and lower 1 / 3rd of the anal canal .
an organ that is part of a vestibular system .
transudate located within the osseus labyrinth .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
a cartilaginous joint that connects left and right mandibles / dentary bones .
a sheet of extracellular matrix .
a large vein or channel for the circulation of venous blood
an external ear that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
an external ear that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
a muscle layer that is part of a fallopian tube .
an adventitia that is part of a epididymis .
a muscle layer that is part of a epididymis .
an adventitia that is part of a vas deferens .
an adventitia that is part of a seminal vesicle .
erectile tissue at the end of the clitoris ,  which is continuous with the intermediate part of the vestibulovaginal bulbs [ bto ]  .
anatomical cavity for the proximal articular surface of the proximal limb or fin element with the scapulocoracoid or equivalent structure .
a joint that connects one phalanx to another along a proximodistal axis .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
the galea aponeurotica  ( epicranial aponeurosis ,  aponeurosis epicranialis )  is a tough layer of dense fibrous tissue which covers the upper part of the cranium ;  behind ,  it is attached ,  in the interval between its union with the occipitales ,  to the external occipital protuberance and highest nuchal lines of the occipital bone ;  in front ,  it forms a short and narrow prolongation between its union with the frontales .
on the interior surface of the temporal bone ,  behind the rough surface of the apex ,  is the large circular aperture of the carotid canal ,  which ascends at first vertically ,  and then ,  making a bend ,  runs horizontally forward and medialward .
a valve that is part of a vein .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the hypoglossal canal is a bony canal in the occipital bone of the skull .
a vein that is part of a vertebral column .
a conduit enclosed within the vertebral foramen of the vertebrae through which the spinal cord passes .
a vasculature that is part of a cerebellum .
the third segment of the limb ,  including either the wrist segment  ( carpus )  or the ankle segment  ( tarsus ) 
the collection of all skeletal elements in an autopodium region .
the central cone shaped core of spongy bone about which turns the spiral canal
a spiral thickening of the fibrous lining of the cochlear wall .
during the third week of embryological development there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
during the third week there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
layer of nonkeratinized squamous epithelium lining the conjunctiva ,  overlying scleral tissue
an epithelium that is composed primarily of secretory cells .
structural framework that provides support to the nasal sacs and ducts .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a open tracheal system trachea .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a trachea .
the initial segment of a cranial nerve ,  leaving the central nervous system .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
endochondral bone that is dorsoventrally compressed and provides attachment site for muscles of the pectoral appendage .
a peritubular capillary that is part of a cortex of kidney .
a region of nephron tubule that is part of a cortex of kidney .
a muscular coat that is part of a ureter .
this gland can either be a discrete structure located bilaterally above each kidney ,  or a cluster of cells in the head kidney that perform the functions of the adrenal gland .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between two metaphyses .
a diaphysis that is part of a femur [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a distal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a metaphysis that is part of a femur .
the distalmost portion of the digestive tract ,  derived from the hindgut ,  and terminating with the anus .
a gland that secretes a seminal fluid .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the pes  ( foot ) 
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a handplate .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the manus  ( hand ) 
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a vasculature that is part of a liver .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of squamous cells only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
a non - keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a esophagus .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a stomach .
the squamous epithelium of the cervical portio is similar to that of the vagina ,  except that it is generally smooth and lacks rete pegs .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a vagina .
a glandular epithelium that lines the stomach .
any gland that is part of the digestive system .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
stomach mucosa that is lined with glandular epithelium and part of a stomach glandular region .
an epithelium that is part of a vestibular labyrinth .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
an epithelium that is part of a crista ampullaris .
the epithelial cells lining the capsule and trabeculae of the thymus
the epithelial cell layer containing the sensory hair cells and their associated sensory nerve terminals
an epithelium that is part of a pinna .
the efferent ducts  ( or efferent ductules or ductuli efferentes )  connect the rete testis with the initial section of the epididymis .
a duct or series of ducts that transports sperm from the gonad .
an epithelium that is part of a efferent duct .
the ejaculatory duct epithelium is composed of cuboidal to columnar cells between or through which project the terminal parts of the ducts of the unicellular prostate glands .
an epithelium that is part of a uterus .
the stroma of the ovary is a peculiar soft tissue ,  abundantly supplied with blood vessels ,  consisting for the most part of spindle - shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue .
the distal part of adenohypophysis: the part that makes up the main body of the gland .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
a multicellular organism that is at the juvenile stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
the femur neck or neck of the femur is a flattened pyramidal process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft ,  and forming with the latter a wide angle opening medialward .
a pharyngeal pouch that is between pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 .
a pharyngeal puch that is between the pharyngeal arches 2 and 3 .
a pharyngeal pouch that between pharyngeal arches 3 and 4 .
portion of tissue that consists of the precursors of the pronephric glomus or glomerulus ;  derived from the medial portion of the pronephric intermediate mesoderm .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a left common carotid artery plus branches .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a right common carotid artery plus branches .
an embryonic structure that will either develop into a post - anal tail or recede into a vestigial remnant of the tail .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a midgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a hindgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a anal canal .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a colon .
the lateral border  ( or axillary border ,  or margin )  is the thickest of the three borders of the scapula .
the medial border of the scapula  ( vertebral border ,  medial margin )  is the longest of the three borders ,  and extends from the medial to the inferior angle .
an angle of the scapula formed by the union of the vertebral and axillary borders ;  its dorsal surface affords attachment to the teres major and frequently to a few fibers of the latissimus dorsi .
a lamina propria that is part of a colonic mucosa .
a serous membrane that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a muscle layer that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
the stroma of the bone marrow is all tissue not directly involved in the primary function of hematopoiesis .
the structure from the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and bronchioles that forms the airways that supply air to the lungs .
multicellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
the vasculature consisting of brachiocephalic arteries and veins .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a trunk neural crest .
an embryo stage that covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the osseous cochlea is the bony foundation that forms the small shell arrangement for the cochlear nerve .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
any of the nuclei that comprise the superior olivary complex  ( superior olive )  .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a cervical region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a thoracic region of vertebral column .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a trachea .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
skeletal subdivision consisting of the anterior appendicular limb skeleton ,  excluding the pectoral girdle .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic appendage region .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain - midbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a proximal convoluted tubule that is part of a pronephros .
a blood vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
a glomerular capillary that is part of a pronephros .
a glomerular basement membrane that is part of a pronephros .
a dense accumulation of exocrine glands in the pancreas often surrounding islets of langerhans .
a duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas to the intestine .
blood vessels supplying the stria vascularis in the cochlea of the inner ear .
an anatomical surface that is part of a tongue .
the upper  ( superior )  side of the tongue .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a paired limb or fin .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a nucleus of brain that spans a midbrain tegmentum .
nerve fibers crossing the midline of the neuraxis relative to their point of origin ,  on a course to from one level of the nervous system to another .
a neural decussation that is part of a diencephalon .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a collection of connected epithelial tubes with a single portal .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
a ring of smooth muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchyme whose cells are embedded in obvious amounts of extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
a ciliated columnar epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
a cuboidal epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
stratified columnar epithelia is a rare type of epithelial tissue composed of column shaped cells arranged in multiple layers .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
a neural nucleus that is part of a medulla oblongata .
layer of hippocampus area ca3 lying superficial to the pyramidal cell layer that contains mossy fiber axons projecting from the dentate gyrus .
regional part of fornix consisting of a thin layer of white matter on the surface of the hippocampal formation ,  bordering the wall of the lateral ventricle and composed of white ,  myelinated fibers .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
a lymph node that is part of a thorax .
a developing mesenchymal capsule that covers the developing brain and spinal cord and is the precursor of the meningeal cluster .
the innermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  primarily of neural crest origin .
the outermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  of mixed paraxial mesoderm and neural crest origin .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
a sphincter that is part of an esophagus .
functional unit of the kidney that forms urine ,  consisting of two parts ,  the nephron and the collecting tubule .
region of the embryo into the area in which the kidney rudiment will develop .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
endodermal bud derived from the endodermal epithelium of the embryonic pharyngeal floor [ mp ]  .
the minute opening of a taste bud on the surface of the oral mucosa through which the gustatory hairs of the specialised neuroepithelial gustatory cells project .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a thalamus .
an axon tract that is part of a spinal cord .
an axon tract that is part of a brain .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
the interphalangeal articulations of the foot  ( articulations of the phalanges )  are ginglymoid joints ,  and each has a plantar and two collateral ligaments .
the interphalangeal articulations of hand are hinge - joints of the phalanges of the hand .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
an endothelium that is part of a umbilical vein .
an endothelium that is part of a umbilical artery .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
a bridge of mesoderm connecting the caudal end of the young embryo with the trophoblastic tissues ;  the precursor of the umbilical cord .
a vasculature that is part of a connecting stalk .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
a tail that extends from the posterior tip of the organism to the anus ,  contains muscle and skeleton .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
mesentery that is located in the peritoneum .
external part of the nose containing the external nares .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a bone element or fused bone that is part of pelvic girdle .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
skeletal subdivision consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb zeugopodium and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb and caudal musculature .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
a sesamoid bone that is part of a manus .
a sesamoid bone that is part of a pes .
the irregular bones are bones which ,  from their peculiar form ,  cannot be grouped as long bone ,  short bone ,  flat bone or sesamoid bone .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a anatomical surface that is part of a cartilage element .
a bone that is hollow or contains many air cells ,  such as the mastoid process of the temporal bone [ tmd ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the pelvis .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
subdivision of thorax ,  which in humans is the posterior part of the thorax and is demarcated from the chest by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage and the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column ;  together with the chest ,  it constitutes the thorax .
a muscle of back that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
a clavicle that is in the right side of a entire appendicular skeleton .
a clavicle that is in the left side of a entire appendicular skeleton .
the fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the root of a tooth ,  separating it from and attaching it to the alveolar bone .
a knoblike tooth primordium that develops into the mature tooth and consists of enamel organ ,  dental papilla ,  and dental sac enclosing them .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a nasopharynx .
with numerous vascular spaces that may become engorged with blood
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a clitoris .
an intestinal villus in the duodenum .
an intestinal villus in the jejunum .
an intestinal villus in the ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a duodenum .
an epithelium that is part of a breast .
epithelium pertaining to the trachea and bronchi .
the cells lining the proximal tubule are cuboidal epithelial cells with deep basal membrane invaginations that provide a large basal surface area .
an epithelium that is part of a distal tubule .
a ridge of epidermal cells that will form the mammary placodes .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
intertarsal articulations are the joints of the tarsus .
any muscle organ that is part of an nose .
a muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a tibia .
an embryonic structure that is derived from the inner cell mass and lies above the hypoblast and gives rise to the three primary germ layers
the dorsal venous arch of the foot is a superficial vein that connects the small saphenous vein and the great saphenous vein .
a limb segment that is part of a hindlimb .
a limb segment that is part of a forelimb .
any of the three large depressions in the posterior ,  middle ,  and anterior aspects of the floor of the cranial cavity
an external organ of a male organism that is specialized to deliver sperm during copulation .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
an endoderm that is part of a thymus primordium .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
any duct branching of of the main epididymis duct .
an out - pocket of thickened ventral foregut epithelium adjacent to the developing heart .
a ligament that does not connect two skeletal elements .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements [ vsao , modified ]  .
the smooth muscle layer of the stomach wall that functions to churn and mix food and gastric secretions as well as to move food along the digestive tract to the intestines
the short narrow part of the stomach extending from the pyloric antrum to the pyloric sphincter
a gastric gland in the cardiac region of the stomach ;  cardiac glands are fewer in number than in the fundus and body ,  and secrete mucin which coats the stomach and protects it [ mp ] 
the gastric glands in the pyloric region of the stomach ;  the pyloric glands secrete mucin ,  which coats the stomach and protects it ,  and hormones such as gastrin and enkephalin [ mp ]  .
the distinguishing cell types of the lung alveolar tissue ,  including pulmonary epithelial cells  ( pneumocytes )  ,  alveolar capillary endothelial cells ,  interstitial cells  ( fibroblasts )  and alveolar macrophages
the part of the airway consisting of a respiratory bronchiole and all of its branches
any skeletal muscle organ in the hypodermis  /  superficial fascia
the multi - layer basement membrane between the dermis and epidermis that serves to adhere the dermis and epidermis ,  provide mechanical support for the epidermis ,  and forms a barrier to cells and large molecules across the junction
bone tissue that is an unmineralized bone matrix deposited by osteoblasts prior to the mineralization of bone tissue .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
the hemorrhoidal plexus  ( or rectal venous plexus )  surrounds the rectum ,  and communicates in front with the vesical venous plexus in the male ,  and the uterovaginal plexus in the female .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
a pharyngeal arch that is posterior to the hyoid arch .
volcano - shaped lateral line sensory organ located in characteristic positions within the skin epithelium and containing hair cells and their support elements .
cranial nerves that carry afferent and efferent fibers for the lateral line system .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm [ vsao ]  .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the inner nuclear layer and comprises 20 percent of the inner plexiform layer of retina .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the s1 and s3 layers and comprises 20 percent of the inner plexiform layer of retina .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the s2 and s4 layers and comprises 20 percent of the inner plexiform layer of retina .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the s3 and s5 layer and comprises 20 percent of the inner plexiform layer of retina .
a retinal neural layer that is immediately adjacent to the retinal ganglion cell layer and comprises 20 percent of the ganglion plexiform layer of retina .
one of sublaminar layers s1 or s2 .
one of sublaminar layers s2 or s3 .
one of sublaminar layers s4 or s5 .
a parenchyma that is part of a lung .
a bone that is part of a forelimb region .
a sac containing the developing tooth and its odontogenic organ .
the functional tissue of the kidney ,  consisting of the nephrons .
one of the racemose glands in the walls of the esophagus that in humans are small and serve principally to lubricate the food but in some birds secrete a milky fluid on which the young are fed .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
any portion of tissue that surrounds a urethra .
a zone of skin that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
an artery that supplies blood to the urinary bladder .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
any region of a nephron tubule that is straight .
a germinal center that is located in a lymph node
the prostatic veins form a well - marked prostatic plexus which lies partly in the fascial sheath of the prostate and partly between the sheath and the prostatic capsule .
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
the uterus in pregnancy
a mature thymus that is entirely part of the cervical region .
a mature thymus that is entirely part of thoracic region .
a gonad prior to differentiating into a definitive testis or ovary .
the adenohypophyseal placode forms the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and gives rise to the endocrine secretory cells of the pituitary
rostralmost epibranchial placode .associated with 1st branchial cleft .
epibranchial placode between geniculate and nodose .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
an ectodermal placode that will develop into the components of the lateral line system
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
a sphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a sphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
any suture between cranial and / or facial bones .
any suture between facial bones .
the limb epidermis is the outer epithelial layer of the limb ,  it is a complex stratified squamous epithelium .
a nephric duct is a tube that drains a primitive kidney [ go ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a medial nasal prominence .
mesenchyme that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
an ectoderm that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
a thin fold of ectoderm and endoderm that separates the pharyngeal pouches from the pharyngeal clefts in a developing embryo .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the first pharyngeal cleft from the first pharyngeal pouch .
cartilaginous form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
the superior surface of the tongue divided by the sulcus terminalis into an anterior two - thirds ,  the presulcal part  ( pars presulcalis )  .
the axilla is the area directly under the joint where the forelimb connects to the shoulder .
mesenchyme that is part of a otic placode .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
mesenchyme that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a mesentery that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
an epithelium that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
anatomical region that surrounds the otic vesicle .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the frontonasal region of the head
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trachea .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing middle ear .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
an epithelium that is part of a lateral lingual swelling .
mesenchyme that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a maxillary prominence .
a vascular plexus that is part of a left lung .
a vascular plexus that is part of a right lung .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a segment of a digit containing the distal phalanx ,  and overlapping the distal interphalangeal joint [ cjm ]  .
a segment of the manual digit containing the distal phalanx
a segment of the pedal digit containing the distal phalanx .
a skeletal joint that connects a mesopodium bone and connects a proximal phalanx .
a submucosa that is part of a intestine .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the trunk of the body ,  containing the trunk / presacral vertebrae .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future spinal cord .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future medulla oblongata .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future metencephalon .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future myelencephalon .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a future forebrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
bilateral mesenchymal mesoderm parallel and immediately adjacent to the neural tube / notochord ;  it generates a subset of extra - ocular ,  and other head ,  muscles .
a somite that is part of a tail .
a proximal straight tubule that is part of a pronephros .
the paired bundles of nerve fibers entering and leaving the spinal cord at each segment .
a spinal nerve root that is part of a thoracic nerve .
one of the two epithelia which make up the tympanic membrane  ( along with the fibrous layer ) 
a eyelid connective tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a basement membrane that is part of a nephron tubule .
a basement membrane that is part of a bronchus .
a basement membrane that is part of a trachea .
an artery that supplies oxygenated blood to the ear .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a telencephalon .
ventral mesentery is the part of the peritoneum closest to the navel .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a embryonic cloaca .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a rectum .
anatomical cluster consisting of adjacent teeth constituting a row .
a tooth row that is part of a skeleton of lower jaw .
a epithelium that is part of a vermiform appendix .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
the primordial mass of tissue formed by the merging of the medial nasal prominences of the embryo ;  it contributes to the intermaxillary portion of the upper jaw ,  the prolabial portion of the upper lip ,  and the primary palate .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
one of sublaminar layers s3 or s4 .
one of sublaminar layers s1 ,  s2 ,  or s5 .
one of sublaminar layers s1 ,  s2 ,  or s3 .
one of sublaminar layers s2 ,  s3 ,  or s4 .
one of sublaminar layers s1 ,  s3 ,  or s4 .
one of sublaminar layers s3 ,  s4 ,  or s5 .
one of sublaminar layers s1 ,  s2 ,  s3 ,  or s4 .
the channels in the lymph node medulla that separate the medullary cords and are crossed by a reticulum of cells and fibers and bounded by littoral cells ;  lymph flows through the medullary sinus from the cortical sinuses and into the efferent lymphatic vessels
the dense rope - like structures of lymphatic tissue located between the medullary sinuses in the medulla of a lymph node
the primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing limbs ,  autopods and digits ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to limb connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with myotome cells .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing pancreas
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a proximal phalanx to either a medial or distal phalanx .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a distal phalanx to either a medial or proximal phalanx .
a renal tubule is a tube that filters ,  re - absorbs and secretes substances to rid an organism of waste and to play a role in fluid homeostasis .
a serous sac that has the pleura and the pleural cavity as parts .
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
a solid cord of prostate epithelium .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a primitive urogenital sinus .
mesenchyme that surrounds primitive urogenital sinus .
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
a specific region of the urogenital sinus epithelium into the area in which the prostate gland will develop .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a thin layer of connective tissue that lines the surface of the bony tissue that forms the medullary cavity of long bones
a division of the stomach .
outer portion of the renal cortex .
intermediate segment of the autopod ,  between the mesopodial region and and acropodial region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a mesopodium .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of endochondral elements distal to the zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the posterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of the endochondral elements distal to the anterior limb / fin zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the anterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
one of a number of vertical folds ,  produced by an infolding of the mucous membrane and some of the muscular tissue in the upper half of the lumen of the anal canal [ wp ] 
a renal ,  cortical lobule ,  consisting of the ascending or descending limbs of the loop of henle or of the collecting tubules ;  medullary rays are regions where parallel arrays of straight tubules travel perpendicular to the capsule and extend from the cortex to the medulla .
an artery that supplies a renal lobe .
the interlobar veins are veins of the renal circulation which drain the renal lobes .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
a nerve root that extends_fibers_into a nerve connecting eye with brain .
a portion of an organ ,  such as the liver ,  lung ,  breast ,  or brain .
the portion of a kidney consisting of a renal medullary pyramid and the renal cortex above it [ mp ]  .
the portion of a renal lobe consisting of nephrons grouped around a single medullary ray and draining into a single collecting duct ;  human kidneys have multilobular ,  multipapillary architecture while mice and rats have unilobular ,  unipapillary kidneys
an anatomical wall that is part of a ureter .
the region demarcating the renal medulla from the surrounding cortex ;  end - stage renal failure may be associated with loss of the normal corticomedullary boundary
the loose collection of neurons that reside in the rostral medulla close to the medullary surface ,  ventral and immediately caudal of nvii ,  that are crucial for co2 sensing in the brain
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the epithelium of the ureter
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
a vertebrate nasal chemosensory system that is responsible for detecting intraspecific pheromonal cues as well as environmental odorants
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urinary bladder .
a conducting pathway in the conducting tissue of heart through which electrical activity spreads from the sa node to the av node .
an epithelium that is part of a pancreatic duct .
one of the gastric glands that secretes the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice [ stedman's ]  .
the junction between the ureter and the renal pelvis of the kidney
the valve - like structure found at the site of entry of the ureter into the urinary bladder ,  normally displays an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux of urine up the ureters and the kidney
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
the vascularized and branched structures arising from the rodent trophoblast - derived epithelium that allow an increase its surface area for the efficient exchange of nutrients and wastes between the maternal and fetal circulation
a regional part of brain consisting of multiple brain regions that are not related through a simple volummetric part of hierarchy ,  e .g . ,  basal ganglia [ nif ]  .
subcortical masses of gray matter in the forebrain and midbrain that are richly interconnected and so viewed as a functional system .
the dorsal portion of the embryonic first endodermal pharyngeal pouch ;  it develops into the middle ear cavity .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
the portion of the tongue in front of the terminal sulcus .
the fundus glands  ( or fundic glands ,  or gastric glands )  are found in the body and fundus of the stomach .
an organ of the digestive tract that is capable of retaining and storing food
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch maxillary component .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
a mucosa that is part of a dorsum of tongue .
a compound organ that has the potential to develop into a tongue .
an anatomical space with at least one opening to another space or the exterior .
a portion of the external acoustic meatus epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
the intermediate fibrous layer of the tympanic membrane .
organ system subdivision that consists primarily of chromaffin cells and their supporting structures .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
an extrahepatic bile duct that has the potential to develop into a common hepatic duct .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a multi - tissue structure that has the potential to develop into a meninx of hindbrain .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a metencephalon .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a facial nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a superior salivatory nucleus .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the autopod  ( e .g .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli
a circumventricular organ that is capable of secreting substances into the cerebrospinal fluid .
a circumventricular organ that is capable of monitoring the levels of substances to the cerebrospinal fluid .
a sex cord that is part of a indifferent gonad .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a seminal vesicle .
any gland ,  other than the gonad ,  associated with the genital tract ,  such as the ampulla of the ductus deferens and the bulbourethral ,  prostate and vesicular glands of the male .
a mucous secretion that is produced by glands in the epidermis .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a lymphatic vessel .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
the distal end of the tail
an anatomical cluster that composed_primarily_of a strand of hair .
a collection of hairs that is part of a face .
a strand of hair that is part of a face .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the penile urethra
an urethral gland that is part of a female urethra .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
the paired arterial structures of the embryo that supplies each developing somite via efferent segmental arteries ;  the dorsal aortae articulate with the umbilical arteries ,  which return mixed blood to the villi of the chorion for reoxygenation
one of the laterally paired arteries that supply the gonads .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
the lateral line consists of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid - filled canals on the head and body of all fishes and most amphibians .
a vasculature that is part of a post - anal tail .
apparatus located between the lungs and the buccal cavity .
a nuclear complex which in mammals consists of four parts ,  the hypothalamus ,  epithalamus ,  ventral thalamus ,  and dorsal thalamus [ wp , modified ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
the connective tissue that supports the lobules and follicles of the thyroid gland .
an exocrine gland whose secretions are excreted via exocytosis from secretory cells into an epithelial - walled duct or ducts and thence onto a bodily surface or into the lumen ;  the gland releases its product and no part of the gland is lost or damaged .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
one of the three blood vessels ,  usually one large umbilical vein and two small umbilical arteries ,  buried within wharton's jelly ,  that transport blood to and from the placenta ,  where exchange between the mother and fetus takes place ;  the umbilical vein carries oxygenated ,  nutrient - rich blood from the placenta to the fetus ,  and the umbilical arteries carry deoxygenated ,  nutrient - depleted blood from the fetus to the placenta .
a group of bones comprised of hyoid body and two pairs of cornua  ( i .e .
a zone of bone organ that is part of a hyoid bone .
any anatomical space that is part of a vertebral column .
a minute orifice on the summit of the papillae lacrimales ,  which is the commencement point of the lacrimal canaliculi .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
a stroma that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
a single extraembryonic epithelium ,  which closes the germband dorsally .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesizes but does not accumulate keratin .
one of the three major regions of the conjunctiva .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb / fin bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing eyelid .
an epithelium that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a extraembryonic membrane .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
a otic capsule endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the first step in ossification of the cartilage is that the cartilage cells ,  at the point where ossification is commencing and which is termed a ossification center ,  enlarge and arrange themselves in rows .
an arch - shaped structure of the vertebra that extends dorsally  ( neural arch )  or ventrally  ( hemal arch )  from the vertebral centrum
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
a vasculature that is part of a conjunctiva .
a vein that is part of a conjunctiva .
the smallest anatomical unit of the lung ,  measuring 0 .50 to 2 .00 cm in diameter .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
the neurons that innervate the esophagus ,  stomach ,  small and large bowel
a lymphoid follicle that is part of a peyer's patch .
the segment of the rib that connects to a vertebra [ mp ]  .
an organ cavity that is part of a urethra .
an unstimulated network of follicular dendritic cells and small resting b cells in the lymph node cortex .
any layer of the epidermis that is superior to the stratum basale
the part of the future brain that is derived from the mantle layer of the neural tube
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
an orifice that is part of a lower urinary tract .
a part of the secondary follicle in which naive b cells reside along with some helper t cells ,  macrophages and follicular dendritic cells ;  these are displaced by the expanding germinal centre and form a 'mantle' around it
the area of the  ( spleen )  secondary b follicle that surrounds the germinal center and harbors the small recirculating b lymphocytes
a lymphoid follicle containing naive b cells
a primary nodular lymphoid tissue that is part of a tonsil .
a naris that is located inside the nasal cavity and connects to the pharynx .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a bone that is shaped as a broad flat plate and composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue ,  which is the location of red bone marrow .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
an organ that is capable of detecting electrical stimulus
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
an organ cavity that surrounded_by a bone .
an epithelial tube that is fated to become a nephron .
the metanephric cortex is the outer region of the metanephros [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster which give rise to mature mesonephric nephrons .
a primitive nephron that is part of a metanephros .
cluster of cells comprising a portion of tissue which gives rise to new mesonephric nephrons .
an appendage segment that is part of a limb / fin .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the autopodium  -  i .e .
the metacarpus is the intermediate part of the manus skeleton that is located between the phalanges  ( bones of the fingers )  distally and the carpus which forms the connection to the forearm .
limb segment that consists of the long bones of the pes .
subdivision of skeleton that corresponds to metapodium region ,  between acropodial skeleton and mesopdoial skeleton .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the manual autopodium  -  i .e .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the tarsal skeleton .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the pedal autopodium  -  i .e .
mesenchyme of the digit region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an forelimb zeugopod region .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendicular skeleton and the pelvic girdle .
skeletal subdivision that is a segment of the limb skeleton .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb zeugopod region .
a orbitosphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
a bone that is part of a pelvic complex .
the collection of all meningeal layers that line a central nervous system .
a lymphoid follicle that is part of a lymph node .
a secondary follicle that is located in a lymph node
a collection of activated b cells at the center of a secondary follicle ,  formed after b cells become activated and migrate to the center .
the part of the secondary follicle that surrounds the germinal center .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along an axis perpedicular to the main body anterior - posterior axis .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a clavicle .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a clavicle .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibia .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibia .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of cartilage tissue .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of pre - cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
muscles of the pelvic girdle ,  hindlimb or pelvic fin .
a muscle of a pectoral girdle ,  pectoral fin or anterior limb .
am unpaired external naris that lies in the midline of the head .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
a primordium that develops into a clavicle bone .
skeletal element that is often isolated ,  small ,  and variable in composition .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a muscle organ that attaches_to a clavicle and attaches_to a occipital bone .
a muscle organ that has_muscle_insertion a occipital bone and has_muscle_origin a sternum .
any muscle organ that is part of either the head or the neck .
a thin layer of cartilage ,  usually hyaline ,  on the articular surface of bones in synovial joints .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
a channel containing perilymph passing through the temporal bone ,  connecting the scala tympani of the cochlea to the subarachnoid space .
a ligament that is part of a knee joint .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a right pelvic girdle region .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a left pelvic girdle region .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
the cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the pre - cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the lacrimal nerve is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve .
a synovial joint that is part of a pelvic girdle region .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the tarsometatarsal articulations are arthrodial joints in the pes .
the carpometacarpal joints  ( cmc )  are joints in the wrist that articulates the distal row of carpal bones and the proximal bases of the metacarpal bones .
a skeletal joint that connects a laryngeal cartilage .
a skeletal joint that connects two adjacent metacarpals [ fma , modified ]  .
a skeletal joint that connects two carpal bones .
a joint that connects two adjacent metatarsals
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
a cartilage element that lies between two successive vertebral centra .
ligament that joins successive centra .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
any synovial joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
ossicle that is part of the appendicular skeleton .
ossicle that is part of the axial skeleton .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a bone that is part of a neurocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a crypt of lieberkuhn .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the gastrointestinal system
a lamina propria that is part of a large intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a parathyroid gland .
a muscle layer that is part of a large intestine .
a muscle layer that is part of a small intestine .
a root of cranial nerve that is part of a vagus nerve .
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
a bone that is part of a autopod region .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
the pharyngeal aponeurosis  ( or pharyngobasilar fascia ,  or fibrous coat )  ,  is situated between the mucous and muscular layers .
the submucous layer of the wall of the uterine tube .
a partion of white matter that is part of a telencephalon .
a portion of gray matter that is part of a telencephalon .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a lymph vasculature that is part of a head .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis or clitoris .
a zone of skin that is part of a prepuce of clitoris .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a esophagus .
a tube lumen that is part of a mesonephric duct .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb or fin .
proximal element of a free limb skeleton consisting of the femur and humerus in the forelimb stylopodium and hindlimb stylopodium respectively [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
section of the forelimb skeleton located between the stylopodium and the autopodium .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
odontogenic tissue that is collagen - rich and characteristic of vertebrate teeth and tooth - like structures  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  deposited by preodontoblasts and odontoblasts that are typically excluded from the matrix .
odontogenic tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by preameloblast and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
an axon tract that is part of a diencephalon .
tooth that is attached to a dentary / mandible [ tao , modified ]  .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
a gingiva that is part of a lower jaw region .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a vertebra in the trunk region .
a tarsal bone that connected_to a hindlimb zeugopod skeleton .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
anatomical projection that is composed of cartilage tissue .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of lower jaw .
a cranial nerve nucleus that is associated with a vagus nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of the spinal cord .
a nerve that is part of a head .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
an ectodermal placode that gives rise to any of the cutaneous appendages that protrude from the skin epidermis  ( heair ,  feathers ,  epidermal scales )  .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
a duct that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a salivary gland .
an acinus that is part of a mammary gland .
an acinus that is part of a lacrimal gland .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of tendon tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of corneal stroma that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
a skeletal ligament that is part of a sternoclavicular joint .
a muscle layer that is part of a wall of esophagus .
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
a organ cavity that is part of a vagina .
epimysium is a layer of connective tissue which ensheaths the entire muscle .
masses of developing blood cells attached to endothelium in the yolk sac
the the continuous basement membrane found within the membranous labyrinth of the cochlea ,  known to extend from the limbus ,  down to the inner sulcus ,  across the basilar membrane ,  up to the external sulcus to the spiral prominence and radiating into the spiral ligament ensheathing the root cell processes
nerve fibers which project from the central nervous system to autonomic ganglia .
a cholinergic axonal fiber projecting from the cns to a sympathetic ganglion
hair in the nose
an epidermal invagination that has as parts a hair follicle ,  a sebaceous gland ,  and arrector pili muscle
a region of the stomach that is lined with glandular epithelium .
a hepatic vein that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic vein that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an articular capsule that is part of the glenohumeral joint .
a skeletal ligament that connects a tibia and connects a tarsal skeleton .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manus .
a joint that connects the bones of the crus to the proximal tarsal bones
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
the cavity within a myotome
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a patella .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a patella .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a bronchus .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
a segment of the autopod consisting of both acropodial region and metapodial region ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial region .
a digitopodium region that is part of a manus [ obol ]  .
a digitopodium region that is part of a pes [ obol ]  .
a subdivision of the autopod skeleton consisting of both acropodial skeleon and metapodial skeleton ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial skeleton .
a subdivision of the manus skeleton consisting of both manual acropodial skeleton and metacarpal skeleton ,  but excluding the carpal skeleton .
a subdivision of the pes skeleton consisting of both pedal acropodial skeleton and metatarsal skeleton ,  but excluding the tarsal skeleton .
blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth [ wp ]  .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a stomach .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
network of tubes that carries blood through the distensible musculomembranous organ that serves to collect and store urine excreted by the kidneys [ mp ] 
external opening or orifice of the urethra through which urine and seminal fluid  ( in males only )  leave the body ;  in males the meatus presents as a vertical slit normally positioned at the tip of glans penis ;  in females the meatus is located between the clitoris and the vagina in the vulvular vestibule of the female genitalia [ mp ]  .
a urethral meatus that is part of a male urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the usually crescent - shaped opening of the urinary bladder into the urethra ,  placed at the anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  of the urinary bladder trigone
mucus - secreting glands in the mucosa of the uterine cervix
lining of the head of the uterus  ( cervix )  ;  contains large branched glands ;  does not undergo sloughing .
the part of the cervix uteri that protrudes into the vagina and is lined with stratified squamous epithelium .
a glandular epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix .
a epithelium that is part of a ectocervix .
the glandular epithelium that lines the endocervix .
region of cervical epithelium where columnar epithelium of endocervic and the stratified non - keratinising squamous epithelium of the ectocervic meet
an artery that originates from the abdominal aorta
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
the nasal glands are the seromucous glands in the respiratory region of the nasal mucous membrane .
small bodies containing chromaffin cells occurring outside of the adrenal medulla ,  most commonly near the sympathetic ganglia and in organs such as the kidney ,  liver ,  heart and gonads .
one of the pair of mesenchymal swellings  ( folds )  located on either side of the cloacal membrane during the indifferent stage of embryonic development ;  cranial to the cloacal membrane the folds unite to form the genital tubercle ;  caudally the folds are subdivided into urogenital folds anteriorly and anal folds posteriorly
a mucosa that is part of a urethra .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
the median slit located inferior and posterior to the external urethral orifice in the female ;  the exit for menstrual flow and birth and the entrance for the penis during sexual intercourse ;  the size and appearance of the vaginal orifice varies inversely with that of the hymen  ( g . membrane )  ,  a thin fold of mucous membrane that surrounds the vaginal orifice
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesize and accumulate keratin .
the lymphocytic cell population present in the mucosa of the nasopharyngeal duct of some animals .
a broad fold of peritoneum that extends from the side of the uterus to the wall of the pelvis .
any exocrine gland whose secretion consists of its own disintegrated secretory cells along with its secretory product ;  holocrine secretions are produced in the cytoplasm of the cell and released by the rupture of the plasma membrane ,  which destroys the cell and results in the secretion of the product into the lumen .
the segment of the autopod that is distal to the metapodial region and consists of the digits .
the segment of the manus that is distal to the metacarpal region and consists of the manual digits  ( fingers )  .
the segment of the pes that is distal to the metatarsal region and consists of the pedal digits  ( toes )  .
a bone that is part of a the digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the manual digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the pedal digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
a muscle layer that is part of an intestine .
a nerve plexus that is part of a sympathetic nervous system .
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
a muscular coat that is part of a jejunum .
a muscular coat that is part of a urinary bladder .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
a layer of microvilli ,  thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments [ go , modified ] 
a microvillus layer that is striated and found in the intestine .
blood - forming tissue ,  consisting of reticular fibers and cells .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
a endothelium that is part of a peritubular capillary .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a cloaca .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a terminal part of digestive tract .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
triangular calcified papillae  ( often five )  placed radially around the anus of some holothuriidae
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic complex  -  i .e .
the posterior region of the neck ,  including the suboccipital region .
a gland that is part of a cloaca .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
a submucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a cloaca .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a vagina .
a muscular coat that is part of a duodenum .
a muscular coat that is part of a colon .
a muscular coat that is part of a anal canal .
a serous membrane that is part of a vermiform appendix .
a serous membrane that is part of a fallopian tube .
a serous membrane that is part of a fundus of stomach .
a adventitia that is part of a esophagus .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a umbilical cord .
a anatomical junction that connects a stomach and connects a duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a gastroduodenal junction .
a vein that is part of a abdomen .
a vein that drains a lip .
a nonskeletal ligament that is part of a liver .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
one of two arteries  ( anterior and posterior choroidal artery )  that supply blood to the choroid plexus ,  optic tract ,  hippocampus ,  globus pallidus ,  and other various brain regions .
a gland that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_left_side_of a telencephalon .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_right_side_of a telencephalon .
the layer of the ovarian stroma lying immediately beneath the tunica albuginea ,  composed of connective tissue cells and fibers ,  among which are scattered primary and secondary  ( antral )  follicles in various stages of development ;  the cortex varies in thickness according to the age of the individual ,  becoming thinner with advancing years ;  included in the follicles are the cumulus oophorus ,  membrana granulosa  ( and the granulosa cells inside it )  ,  corona radiata ,  zona pellucida ,  and primary oocyte ;  the zona pellucida ,  theca of follicle ,  antrum and liquor folliculi are also contained in the follicle ;  also in the cortex is the corpus luteum derived from the follicles .
highly vascular stroma found in the center of the ovary that forms from embryonic mesenchyme and contains blood vessels ,  lymphatic vessels ,  and nerves ;  this stroma forms the tissue of the hilum by which the ovarian ligament is attached ,  and through which the blood vessels enter ;  it does not contain any ovarian follicles .
glands of moll ,  also known as ciliary glands ,  are modified apocrine sweat glands that are found on the margin of the eyelid .
any gland that is part of an eyelid .
any of the sebaceous glands that are in the eyelid .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
a future glans that is part of a male genital tubercle .
a future glans that is part of a female genital tubercle .
the precursor of the urethra
a epithelial tube that develops from a mullerian duct in a male .
a diaphysis that is part of a tibia .
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
a thickened round patch of lymphoid tissue located at the ileocecal junction adjacent to the sacculus rotundus .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the ileum .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the duodenum .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the jejunum .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the colon .
an intestinal crypt that is located in the appendix .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a cloaca .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the space that surrounds an organism .
a section through the tube or network of tubes that connects the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the anatomical space that is enclosed by a stomach .
a anatomical cavity that is part of a ear vesicle .
short bones are designated as those bones that are as wide as they are long .
ossicle that develops within bands of dense ,  regular connective tissue  ( e .g . ,  tendons and ligaments )  .
a sesamoid element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a epithelium that is part of a intestinal villus .
the prostate gland lobe that is located on the lateral side of the organ .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
periosteum that is part of a skull .
a germinal center that is part of a tonsil .
lymphoid tissue located in the appendix .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
vascular endothelium found in colon blood vessels .
the epithelium that forms the surface of the tonsil dips into the underlying connective tissue in numerous places ,  forming crypts kown as tonsillar crypts .
epithelium lining the exocrine pancreas .
a strand of hair that is part of a axilla .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
anatomical projection that is part of the integumentl system .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a metaphysis that is part of a metaphysis .
a metaphysis that is part of a tibia .
a diaphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
one of two openings in the uterine cervix .
opening of uterine cervix into the vagina .
the cavity formed by the walls of the cervix .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
a organ cavity that is part of a uterus .
a nipple that is in_the_left_side_of a body proper .
a nipple that is in_the_right_side_of a body proper .
a diaphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
a collection of hairs that is part of a craniocervical region .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the simple cuboidal epithelium lining the lumen of kidney collecting ducts .
a papilla that contain taste buds ,  including the fungiform ,  foliate ,  and circumvallate papillae .
a muscular coat that is part of a ileum .
sweat that is produced by the glands of the axilla .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a sinusoid .
a sinusoidal space that is part of a hepatic sinusoid .
any member of the network of tubes that return blood from the renal tissues to the systemic circulation .
a taste bud that is located on the tongue ,  situated on a gustatory papilla .
a gustatory epithelium that is part of a tongue .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the peritoneal cavity .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs and rib joints in an organism .
the white laminae of cerebellum is subdivision of the cerebellar cortex comprised of myelinated axons lying deep to the granule cell layer of the cerebellar cortex .
a dorsal horn of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a ventral horn of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a white matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a nerve root that is part of a accessory xi nerve .
a dorsal horn of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a ventral horn of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a dorsal root of spinal cord that overlaps a cervical spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a white matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a white matter that is part of a medulla oblongata .
the angular vein formed by the junction of the frontal vein and supraorbital vein ,  runs obliquely downward ,  on the side of the root of the nose ,  to the level of the lower margin of the orbit ,  where it becomes the anterior facial vein .
the deep auricular artery often arises in common with the anterior tympanic artery .
a venous system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a vascular system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a epithelium that is part of a frontonasal prominence .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pleuroperitoneal canal .
a epithelium that is part of a median lingual swelling .
a duct that is located between lobules ,  within the thin connective tissue septa that separate lobules .
the secretory unit of a mucous gland .
a duct that is located within a lobule ,  with no more connective tissue intervening between ducts and secretory units  ( i .e . ,  acini or tubules )  than between adjacent secretory units .
a duct that is located between lobes ,  within conspicuous ,  thick connective tissue septa that separate lobes .
a blood vessel that drains from from an eyelid .
an artery that supplies blood to an eyelid .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive forebrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
the lingual septum consists of a vertical layer of fibrous tissue ,  extending throughout the entire length of the median plane of the tongue ,  though not quite reaching the dorsum .
any collection of muscles that is part of the forelimb stylopod region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic complex .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral appendage  ( forelimb or pectoral fin )  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic appendage  ( hindlimb or pelvic fin )  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx .
white matter that is part of a brainstem  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
one of the primary blood vessel sprouts that originate from the dorsal aorta and posterior cardinal vein and align dorsoventrally at the myotomal boundaries between somites .
the space between a blood vessel and the pia mater .
developing superficial cortical layer located just under the pia matter ,  develops from the marginal layer of the neural tube and becomes cortical layer i
the major preaxial endochondral element in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a vertebral endochondral element in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
a vertebral endochondral element in the thoracic region of the vertebral column .
a rib bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a forelimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a hindlimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a carpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a tarsus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a femur bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a humerus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a scapula bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a orbitosphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a sphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a limb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a endochondral element that is part of a autopod region .
a autopod endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a forelimb .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a hindlimb .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
a strand of hair that is part of a autopod region .
a strand of hair that is part of a pes .
a strand of hair that is part of a manus .
a strand of hair that is part of a pinna .
a strand of hair that is part of a tail .
a strand of hair that is part of a dorsum .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
a gland that is located in or around the ocular region ,  nearer the outer canthi .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a conjunctiva .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a blood vessel that is part of a endometrium .
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
the slightly constricted part of a tooth ,  between the crown and the root .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a cluster in the epithalamus that consists of the pineal body and any associated structures ,  such as the parapineal gland or the parietal organ .
a zone of skin that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_left_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_right_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a mesenchyme that is part of a urethra .
a valve that is part of a ureter .
a lymph node that is part of a hypodermis .
a zone of skin that is part of a axilla .
a zone of skin that is part of a external nose .
a hepatic artery that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic artery that is part of a right lobe of liver .
hat part of the duodenal wall traversed by the ductus choledochus ,  ductus pancreaticus ,  and ampulla .
a epithelium that is part of a anal canal .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a ejaculatory duct .
a epithelium that is part of a duct of salivary gland .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
the portion of the nasal mucosa that is part of the respiratory system .
any anatomical conduit which is part of the upper respiratory tract
an anatomical chamber that is part of the olfactory apparatus ,  consisting of cavity walls  ( nasal epithelium and mucosal layers )  and the space bounded anteriorly by the nares and posteriorly by the choanae ,  when these structures are present .
a zone of skin that is part of a autopod region .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a digit .
a blood vessel that is part of a liver .
a epithelium that is part of a ear .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a middle ear .
a epithelium that is part of a external ear .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a lamina propria that is part of a duodenum .
a lymph node that is part of a head .
any of the lymph nodes that are part of a face .
a lymph node that is located close to the surface .
a lymph node that is located deeper within the organism ,  further from the surface .
a lymph node that is part of a hindlimb .
a lymph node that is part of a forelimb .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
a breast that is part of a male organism .
a compact bone tissue that is part of a bone tissue of long bone .
a compact bone tissue that is part of a diaphysis .
subdivision of thorax which includes all structures from the skin to the costal pleura .
a strand of hair that is part of a head .
a strand of hair that is part of a trunk .
a stroma that is part of a liver .
a collagenous capsule covering the external surface of the liver .
a lymph node that is part of a bronchus .
is the sensory system for the sense of hearing .
skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a fundus of stomach .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
a epithelium that is part of a male urethra .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of fundus of stomach .
a anatomical space that is part of a duodenum .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
a anatomical space that is part of a jejunum .
a epithelium that is part of a female urethra .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
frontal lobe is the anterior - most of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere .
subdivision of telencephalon which is one of a number of subdivisions of each hemisphere separated by both real landmarks  ( sulci and fissures )  and arbitrary boundaries [ fma , modified ]  .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a frontal lobe .
grey matter neocortex region of a lobe of the cerebral hemisphere .
gray matter of the parietal region of the neocortex ,  located in the parietal lobe of gyrencephalic animals .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a parietal lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a temporal lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a limbic lobe .
gray matter of the temporal region of the neocortex ,  located in the temporal lobe in gyrencephalic animals
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is composed of white matter .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
any mucus produced by a mucosae of the respiratory system .
a white matter that is part of the midbrain .
a blood vessel that is part of a cerebellum .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 1 that develop into the tragus ,  crus of the helix ,  and helix .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 2 that develop into the concha ,  antihelix and antitragus .
the dorsal region of the optic cup that gives rise to the dorsal part of the retina .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the joint that is formed by the union of the humerus ,  the scapula  ( or shoulder blade )  ,  and the clavicle  ( or collarbone )  .
epithelium lining the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
any muscle tissue of the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a periosteum that is part of a long bone .
a bony structure embedded in skin ,  roughly equivalent to osteoderms .
a sesamoid element that is part of a tarsal skeleton .
the dorsal part of the body wall
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a saliva - secreting gland .
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
a mesopodial endochondral element that is in the most proximal part of the mesopodial skeleton ,  connected to the zeugopodial skeleton .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a muscle layer that is part of the rectum
any portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of the rectum
a kidney interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a kidney interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
a renal pelvis that is part of a left ureter .
a renal pelvis that is part of a right ureter .
a renal cortex interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a renal cortex interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
a renal medulla interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a renal medulla interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
any vertebra endochondral element that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
a transverse process that is part of a cervical vertebra
a rib that is attached to a cervical vertebra .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a ligament that is part of a middle ear .
an organ system subdivision that is the part of the lymphoid system that includes the pulmonary lymphatic vessels .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a lung .
a sweat gland that is part of a axilla .
a stroma that is part of a pancreas .
a capsule that divides the parenchyma of the pancreas into lobes and lobules
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
a vein that supplies blood to the thymus .
a vein that drains a thyroid gland .
an artery that supplies a cervical thymus .
one of the veins draining a meninix .
a branch of the superior mesenteric artery that supplies the jejunum .
a vein that drains a lacrimal gland .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
a muscular coat that is part of a digestive tract .
tissue that is part of some adrenal gland
foramen that allows the passge of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  .
a z - shaped canal running through the temporal bone from the internal acoustic meatus to the stylomastoid foramen .
the anatomical space within the intestine .
muscle innervated by the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
the neck region of a bone organ .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
thoracic splanchnic nerves are splanchnic nerves that arise from the sympathetic trunk in the thorax and travel inferiorly to provide sympathetic innervation to the abdomen .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
a white matter that is part of the hindbrain .
a white matter that is part of the forebrain .
a white matter that is part of the myelencephalon .
epithelial layer that is part of the external part of the nose .
the initial segment of an olfactory nerve ,  leaving the central nervous system .
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
the spinal accessory nucleus lies within the cervical spinal cord  ( c1 - c5 )  in the ventral horn .
a blood vessel that supplies or drains an ear .
the single bud - like invagination of the conjunctival fornix epithelium at the temporal aspect of the eye that signals lacrimal gland formation  ( int rev cytol .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a reproductive gland .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the uterine cavity .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the myometrium .
a blood vessel of the placenta .
a mammary gland duct that is part of a male organism .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
white matter that lies deep to the granular cell layer of the cerebellar cortex .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
the layer of the developing cerebral cortex that is formed from the first cohort of neurons to migrate out of the cortical ventricular zone ;  split by the second wave into marginal zone and subplate .
any of the cranial nerves ,  or their central nervous system analogs  ( the optic tract ,  the epiphyseal tract )  .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the parietal eye .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the pineal body .
a taste bud that is located external to the digestive tube ,  on the head or body ,  as found in species such as goldfish .
a taste bud that is located on a lip .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the head .
a taste bud that is located in the pharynx .
a taste bud that is located in the esophagus .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the trunk .
the autonomic nerve is a small nerve which carries postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons from the zygomaticotemporal nerve ;  a branch of the maxillary nerve ,  to the lacrimal nerve ;  a branch of the ophthalmic nerve .
a part of an organism or organ that is continuous with its surroundings and distinguished from its surroundings based on morphology .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the outgrowth of neuroectoderm located on the floor of the embryonic hypothalamus that gives rise to the neurohypophysis  ( posterior lobe )  of the pituitary gland
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
the cervical ganglia are paravertebral ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system .
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
parenchymal tissue that forms the pineal gland .
any of the muscles that are responsible for moving the scapula .
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
material anatomical entity consisting of multiple anatomical structures that are not connected to each other .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
an anatomical collection that is arranged in a line .
a region or zone on the surface of an organism that encompasses skin and any adnexa ,  down through muscles and bounded by underlying skeletal support structures .
the epithelial layer covering the biliary system .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
an enlarged chamber in the blood sinus capable of accumulating a large volume of blood .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
a population of lymphatic endothelial cell precursors that will form the lymph vessels .
a cluster of neuroendocrine cells derived from neural crest .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of an eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the interlobular excretory ducts of a salivary gland which are found in the connective tissue septa and formed by the union of several intralobular striated  ( secretory )  ducts [ mp , generalized ]  .
a vertebra that has a transverse process .
a post - anal tail that attaches outside the tail .
a transverse process that is part of a caudal vertebra
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the flattened aspect of the prostate with a slight furrow facing the rectum and anus .
the organ of hearing located on the right side of the head .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are just beneath the surface of the skin .
the narrowest portion of the gallbladder and distal to the cystic duct .
the organ of hearing located on the left side of the head [ ncit , modified ]  .
the membrane the surrounds the prostate gland .
an artery that supplies the pituitary gland .
the parietal pleura that lines the mediastinum .
a vein that drains blood from the right adrenal gland into the inferior vena cava .
the external portion of the prostate including the anterior ,  inferolateral ,  lateral and posterior surfaces .
a vein that drains blood from the left adrenal gland into the left renal artery .
the aspect of the prostate facing the pubic symphysis .
any of several arteries that arise from the aorta and supply blood to the esophagus .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are in the interior of the body or limbs .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
an embryonic structure positioned halfway between the prospective eye and ear ,  adjacent to the future midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
any lymph vessel that is located in the dura mater of the brain .
tubular connection between the epidermal surface and the most distal part of the inner root sheath .
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
any nerve that innervates the larynx .
any nerve that innervates the pinna .
any nerve that innervates the penis .
any nerve that innervates the clitoris .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a muscle layer that is part of the sigmoid colon
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdominal segment of the trunk ,  which encompasses the abdomen proper plus pelvic cavity .
a serous sac that is the aggregate of the peritoneum and the peritoneal cavity ,  located in the abdominal cavity .
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the right side of the abdomen
the lumen of the epididymis
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
an organ subunit in the skin that gives rise to cutaneous appendage .
an anatomical junction that is between the sigmoid colon and rectum .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
fluid that lines the vaginal walls that consists of multiple secretions that collect in the vagina from different glands .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
parenchymal tissue that consists of the alveoli ,  grape - like clusters where milk is stored ,  and branching ducts ,  which are tubular canals carrying gladular secretions .
any synovial joint that connects auditory ossicles .
any of the eight ligaments pertaining to the uterus including the anterior ,  posterior ,  lateral ,  sacro - uterine and round ligaments .
the zygomaticotemporal nerve or zygomaticotemporal branch  ( temporal branch )  is derived from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper tract of the renal system .
an anatomical structure that is located along the line dividing two regions of an anatomical structure .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
a collection of hairs that grows on the external ear .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
the parenchyma of the spleen ,  consisting of lymphocytes and macrophages .
a parenchyma that is part of a spleen .
ganglion that develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate a lateral line .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves viii and ix ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the posterior lateral line ganglion and middle ganglion .
cranial nerve which enters the brain between cranial nerves vi and vii ;  contains afferents and sensory efferents to the anterior lateral line ganglia .
the posterior lateral line ganglion develops from a cranial ectodermal placode and contains sensory neurons that innervate the posterior lateral line system .
dorsolateral placode that gives rise to the anterior lateral line .
the anteror lateral line ganglia develops from cranial ectodermal placodes and contain sensory neurons that innervate the anterior lateral line system .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
the anterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated between the eye and the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the anterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
the anterior lateral line consists of small sensory patches  ( neuromasts )  located superficially on the skin or just under the skin in fluid - filled canals on the head of all fishes and most amphibians .
the posterior lateral line system develops from cranial ectodermal placodes ,  situated behind the ear ,  that give rise to both the neuromasts and the posterior lateral line sensory nerves that innervate the neuromasts .
a migrating group of cells originating from an anterior lateral line placode .
capillary that has pores in the endothelial cells  ( 60 - 80 nm in diameter )  that are spanned by a diaphragm of radially oriented fibrils and allow small molecules and limited amounts of protein to diffuse
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the limb integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the tail integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
skeletal tissue that is mineralized .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone or cartilage tissue .
an anatomical surface that is part of a bone
mesenchyme that is part of a forelimb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a hindlimb bud .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of a single digit plus the associated metapodial element .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a zone of skin that is part of a scalp .
a forelimb that is on the right side of a pectoral complex .
a forelimb that is on the left side of a pectoral complex .
a hindlimb that is on the right side of a pelvic complex .
a hindlimb that is on the left side of a pelvic complex .
a protein coding gene bcl6 in human .
a protein coding gene rnase2 in human .
a protein coding gene rnase3 in human .
a protein coding gene rorc in human .
a protein coding gene runx1 in human .
a protein coding gene cxcr5 in human .
a protein coding gene sdc1 in human .
a protein coding gene sell in human .
a protein coding gene siglec5 in human .
a protein coding gene slamf1 in human .
a protein coding gene siglec1 in human .
a protein coding gene bst2 in human .
a protein coding gene spi1 in human .
a protein coding gene spn in human .
a protein coding gene tal1 in human .
a protein coding gene tbx21 in human .
a protein coding gene tfrc in human .
a protein coding gene thbd in human .
a protein coding gene thy1 in human .
a protein coding gene tnfrsf11a in human .
a protein coding gene cd27 in human .
a protein coding gene cd40lg in human .
a protein coding gene trpc3 in human .
a protein coding gene acp5 in human .
a protein coding gene vpreb1 in human .
a protein coding gene clec4c in human .
a protein coding gene neto1 in human .
a protein coding gene clec6a in human .
a protein coding gene clec7a in human .
a protein coding gene irx6 in human .
a protein coding gene lilra4 in human .
a protein coding gene cd93 in human .
a protein coding gene ccr1 in human .
a protein coding gene ccr2 in human .
a protein coding gene ccr3 in human .
a protein coding gene ccr4 in human .
a protein coding gene ccr5 in human .
a protein coding gene ccr6 in human .
a protein coding gene ccr7 in human .
a protein coding gene cd14 in human .
a protein coding gene cd163 in human .
a protein coding gene cd19 in human .
a protein coding gene cd1a in human .
a protein coding gene cd1c in human .
a protein coding gene cd1d in human .
a protein coding gene cd2 in human .
a protein coding gene cd209 in human .
a protein coding gene cd22 in human .
a protein coding gene cd24 in human .
a protein coding gene cd28 in human .
a protein coding gene cd33 in human .
a protein coding gene cd34 in human .
a protein coding gene cd36 in human .
a protein coding gene cd38 in human .
a protein coding gene cd3e in human .
a protein coding gene cd4 in human .
a protein coding gene cd44 in human .
a protein coding gene cd48 in human .
a protein coding gene cd5 in human .
a protein coding gene cd68 in human .
a protein coding gene cd69 in human .
a protein coding gene cd7 in human .
a protein coding gene cd80 in human .
a protein coding gene cd83 in human .
a protein coding gene cd84 in human .
a protein coding gene cd86 in human .
a protein coding gene cd8a in human .
a protein coding gene cd8b in human .
a protein coding gene cd9 in human .
a protein coding gene tmed1 in human .
a protein coding gene cdh1 in human .
a protein coding gene cdh5 in human .
a protein coding gene cd207 in human .
a protein coding gene il17rb in human .
a protein coding gene a4galt in human .
a protein coding gene cd244 in human .
a protein coding gene ceacam8 in human .
a protein coding gene cebpa in human .
a protein coding gene cebpe in human .
a protein coding gene ntng1 in human .
a protein coding gene cr1 in human .
a protein coding gene cr2 in human .
a protein coding gene csf1r in human .
a protein coding gene ctla4 in human .
a protein coding gene ctsk in human .
a protein coding gene cx3cr1 in human .
a protein coding gene cxcr4 in human .
a protein coding gene dntt in human .
a protein coding gene egr2 in human .
a protein coding gene adgre1 in human .
a protein coding gene eng in human .
a protein coding gene enpep in human .
a protein coding gene enpp3 in human .
a protein coding gene eomes in human .
a protein coding gene epx in human .
a protein coding gene fcer1a in human .
a protein coding gene fcer2 in human .
a protein coding gene fcgr1a in human .
a protein coding gene fcgr2b in human .
a protein coding gene flt3 in human .
a protein coding gene fos in human .
a protein coding gene fpr1 in human .
a protein coding gene fut4 in human .
a protein coding gene gata1 in human .
a protein coding gene gata2 in human .
a protein coding gene gata3 in human .
a protein coding gene gfap in human .
a protein coding gene gp1ba in human .
a protein coding gene ptgdr2 in human .
a protein coding gene cxcr3 in human .
a protein coding gene gypa in human .
a protein coding gene gzmb in human .
a protein coding gene hbz in human .
a protein coding gene hla - dra in human .
a protein coding gene anpep in human .
a protein coding gene icos in human .
a protein coding gene igll1 in human .
a protein coding gene il1rl1 in human .
a protein coding gene il2ra in human .
a protein coding gene il2rb in human .
a protein coding gene il3ra in human .
a protein coding gene il5ra in human .
a protein coding gene il7r in human .
a protein coding gene cxcr1 in human .
a protein coding gene cxcr2 in human .
a protein coding gene foxp3 in human .
a protein coding gene itga2 in human .
a protein coding gene itga2b in human .
a protein coding gene itga4 in human .
a protein coding gene itgae in human .
a protein coding gene itgam in human .
a protein coding gene itgax in human .
a protein coding gene itgb7 in human .
a protein coding gene kdr in human .
a protein coding gene kit in human .
a protein coding gene klrb1 in human .
a protein coding gene klrc1 in human .
a protein coding gene klrd1 in human .
a protein coding gene klrg1 in human .
a protein coding gene lcn2 in human .
a protein coding gene lgals1 in human .
a protein coding gene lhx3 in human .
a protein coding gene arg1 in human .
a protein coding gene ltf in human .
a protein coding gene ly75 in human .
a protein coding gene ncr1 in human .
a protein coding gene ncr2 in human .
a protein coding gene marco in human .
a protein coding gene mertk in human .
a protein coding gene mme in human .
a protein coding gene mpo in human .
a protein coding gene mrc1 in human .
a protein coding gene ms4a1 in human .
a protein coding gene msr1 in human .
a protein coding gene myb in human .
a protein coding gene ncam1 in human .
a protein coding gene nfkb2 in human .
a protein coding gene nt5e in human .
a protein coding gene pax5 in human .
a protein coding gene pdcd1 in human .
a protein coding gene plaur in human .
a protein coding gene prf1 in human .
a protein coding gene prg2 in human .
a protein coding gene prom1 in human .
a protein coding gene sirpa in human .
a protein coding gene ptprc in human .
a protein coding gene rag1 in human .
a protein coding gene rag2 in human .
a protein coding gene cd86 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd80 in mouse .
a protein coding gene klra4 in mouse .
a protein coding gene klra3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene klra1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene lhx3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene klra8 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ccr7 in mouse .
a protein coding gene prg2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cxcr5 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cebpe in mouse .
a protein coding gene ccr3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ccr1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene rorc in mouse .
a protein coding gene pdcd1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cdh5 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cxcr2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ccr2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene tmed1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene enpep in mouse .
a protein coding gene ly75 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd93 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ly76 in mouse .
a protein coding gene adgre1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ccr5 in mouse .
a protein coding gene bcl6 in mouse .
a protein coding gene fpr1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd38 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ly6a in mouse .
a protein coding gene klrb1c in mouse .
a protein coding gene epx in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd1d1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ctsk in mouse .
a protein coding gene ccr4 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd36 in mouse .
a protein coding gene sirpa in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd244 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ly6g in mouse .
a protein coding gene trpc3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cxcr4 in mouse .
a protein coding gene nfkb2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene prom1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene klrd1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene eomes in mouse .
a protein coding gene cxcr3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene itgae in mouse .
a protein coding gene marco in mouse .
a protein coding gene tnfrsf11a in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd83 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ptgdr2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene gp1ba in mouse .
a protein coding gene ccr6 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cx3cr1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ncr1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd84 in mouse .
a protein coding gene csf1r in mouse .
a protein coding gene sdc1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene slamf1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene il17rb in mouse .
a protein coding gene klrg1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene icos in mouse .
a protein coding gene clec4n in mouse .
a protein coding gene clec7a in mouse .
a protein coding gene tbx21 in mouse .
a protein coding gene foxp3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd209b in mouse .
a protein coding gene bst2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd200r3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene irx6 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ntng1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd163 in mouse .
a protein coding gene enpp3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd207 in mouse .
a protein coding gene neto1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene a4galt in mouse .
a protein coding gene ly6c2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene anpep in mouse .
a protein coding gene acp5 in mouse .
a protein coding gene arg1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd14 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd19 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ms4a1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd22 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd24a in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd27 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd28 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd34 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd3e in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd4 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd40lg in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd44 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd48 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd5 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd68 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd69 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd7 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd8a in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd8b1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd9 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cdh1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cr2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ctla4 in mouse .
a protein coding gene egr2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene eng in mouse .
a protein coding gene fcer1a in mouse .
a protein coding gene fcer2a in mouse .
a protein coding gene fcgr1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene fcgr2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene fcgr3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene flt3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene fos in mouse .
a protein coding gene fut4 in mouse .
a protein coding gene gata1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene gata2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene gata3 in mouse .
a protein coding gene gfap in mouse .
a protein coding gene h2 - ea in mouse .
a protein coding gene hba - x in mouse .
a protein coding gene hbb - b1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene il2ra in mouse .
a protein coding gene il2rb in mouse .
a protein coding gene il3ra in mouse .
a protein coding gene il5ra in mouse .
a protein coding gene il7r in mouse .
a protein coding gene itga2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene itga2b in mouse .
a protein coding gene itga4 in mouse .
a protein coding gene itgam in mouse .
a protein coding gene itgax in mouse .
a protein coding gene itgb7 in mouse .
a protein coding gene kit in mouse .
a protein coding gene kdr in mouse .
a protein coding gene lcn2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene lgals1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene ltf in mouse .
a protein coding gene mertk in mouse .
a protein coding gene mme in mouse .
a protein coding gene mpo in mouse .
a protein coding gene mrc1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene myb in mouse .
a protein coding gene ncam1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene pax5 in mouse .
a protein coding gene prf1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene plaur in mouse .
a protein coding gene rag1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene rag2 in mouse .
a protein coding gene msr1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene sell in mouse .
a protein coding gene spi1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene spn in mouse .
a protein coding gene il1rl1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene tal1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene dntt in mouse .
a protein coding gene thbd in mouse .
a protein coding gene thy1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene tfrc in mouse .
a protein coding gene cd33 in mouse .
a protein coding gene cebpa in mouse .
a protein coding gene siglec1 in mouse .
a protein coding gene nt5e in mouse .
