a planned process that has specified output a software product and that involves the creation of source code .
a planned process that has a data set as its specified output .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
the conjugate base of gamma - amino - beta - hydroxybutyric acid arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 27 - carbon  ( cholestane )  skeleton .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 24 - carbon  ( cholane )  skeleton .
any steroid  ( or derivative )  based on a cholane skeleton .
any steroid acid anion based on a cholanic acid skeleton .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
any member of the class of benzoquinones that is 1 , 4 - benzoquinone or its c - substituted derivatives .
any quinone in which one or more of the carbons making up the quinone moiety is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of oxalic acid .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an n - oxide where there are three organic groups bonded to the nitrogen atom .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
any steroid that has beta - configuration at position 5 .
a cardiovascular drug that tends to raise reduced blood pressure .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino group of any tertiary amino compound .
any compound that can disrupt the functions of the endocrine  ( hormone )  system
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any member of a group of hydroxy steroids occuring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
an alpha - oxyketone that has a hydroxy group as the alpha - oxy moiety .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing two organyl groups .
any saturated fatty acid containing 4 carbons .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of the hydroxy group of an enol .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a cardiovascular drug that prevents atherosclerosis  ( a disease in which the inside of an artery narrows due to the build up of plaque )  .
any ec 3 .4 .17 .*  ( metallocarboxypeptidase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of angiotensin - converting enzyme 2  ( ec 3 .4 .17 .23 )  .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of a metallocarboxypeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .17 .
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
a choline that is the parent compound of the cholines class ,  consisting of ethanolamine having three methyl substituents attached to the amino function .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
the simplest  ( and the only achiral )  proteinogenic amino acid ,  with a hydrogen atom as its side chain .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a tertiary amine oxide resulting from the oxidation of the amino group of trimethylamine .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a straight - chain ,  sixteen - carbon ,  saturated long - chain fatty acid .
any n - acyl - amino acid in which the amino acid moiety has d configuration .
any 3 - hydroxy steroid whose skeleton is closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol  ( additional carbon atoms may be present in the side chain )  .
a fatty acid with a chain length ranging from c13 to c22 .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having d - configuration .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having l - configuration .
a gamma - amino acid comprising 4 - aminobutyric acid having a 2 - hydroxy substituent .
a cholestanoid consisting of cholestane having a double bond at the 5 , 6 - position as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid consisting of hexadecanoic acid carrying methyl substituents at positions 3 ,  7 ,  11 and 15 .
an optically active form of cysteine having d - configuration .
any benzoquinone derived from 2 , 3 - dimethoxy - 5 - methylbenzoquinone ;  one of a group of naturally occurring homologues .
the r - enantiomer of serine .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of uracil attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
a penicillanic acid compound having a  ( 6r )  - amino substituent .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
a dihydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acid that is  ( 5beta )  - cholan - 24 - oic acid substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 7 respectively .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a methylthio substituent at position 4 .
a glycine derivative having methyl and amidino groups attached to the nitrogen .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is ethane substituted by carboxyl groups at positions 1 and 2 .
d - ribitol in which the hydroxy group at position 5 is substituted by a 7 , 8 - dimethyl - 2 , 4 - dioxo - 3 , 4 - dihydrobenzo [ g ] pteridin - 10 ( 2h )  - yl moiety .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
the l - enantiomer of serine .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexanoic acid  ( also known as caproic acid )  .
an amino - acid betaine that is butanoate substituted with a hydroxy group at position c - 3 and a trimethylammonium group at c - 4 .
any 3beta - hydroxy - steroid that contains a double bond between positions 5 and 6 .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
the conjugate base of propionic acid ;  a key precursor in lipid biosynthesis .
any member of the group of substituted penams containing two methyl substituents at position 2 ,  a carboxylate substituent at position 3 and a carboxamido group at position 6 .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid containing five carbon atoms .
a complex cob ( iii ) alamin in which cobalt is positioned in the centre of a planar corrin tetrapyrrole ring and bound axially to a 5 , 6 - dimethylbenzimidazole moiety and a cyano group .
a carbohydrate that is an acyclic polyol having the general formula hoch2 [ ch ( oh )  ] nch2oh  ( formally derivable from an aldose by reduction of the carbonyl group )  .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
an optically active form of cysteine having l - configuration .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent .
a  glycosylglucose disaccharide ,  found most notably in milk ,  that consists of d - galactose and d - glucose fragments bonded through a beta - 1 -  > 4 glycosidic linkage .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
a compound showing blue fluorescence ,  formed by a photolysis of riboflavin in acid or neutral solution .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine substituted at position 3 by a hydroxy group .
any glyceride resulting from the condensation of all three hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of butyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a glycosyl glycoside formed by glucose and fructose units joined by an acetal oxygen bridge from hemiacetal of glucose to the hemiketal of the fructose .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
any six - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldohexose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketohexose )  .
a tertiary amine that is ammonia in which each hydrogen atom is substituted by an methyl group .
an alpha - amino acid that is phenylalanine bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 4 on the phenyl ring .
the parent compound of the citrulline class consisting of ornithine having a carbamoyl group at the n ( 5 )  - position .
an alpha - amino acid that is glutaric acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
an alpha - amino acid that is pentanoic acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 5 .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
an n - acetyl - amino acid having d - configuration .
an l - amino acid having an n - acetyl substituent .
an n - acyl - amino acid that has acetyl as the acyl group .
any n - acylamino acid having l - configuration .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
any amino acid derivative that is the n - acetyl or o - acetyl derivative of an amino acid .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
any amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by alkyl groups .
highly reactive chemical that introduces alkyl radicals into biologically active molecules and thereby prevents their proper functioning .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a substance that destroys or inhibits replication of viruses .
a ketoaldonate that is the conjugate base of ascorbic acid .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - aspartic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( asparagine ,  lysine ,  methionine ,  threonine and isoleucine )  .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
any quinone resulting from the formal oxidation of catechol ,  hydroquinone ,  or their c - substituted derivatives .
any amino acid - derived zwitterion  -  such as glycine betaine  ( n , n , n - trimethylammonioacetate )   -  in which the ammonium nitrogen carries three methyl substituents .
any  amino acid  in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
a class of beta - lactam antibiotics differing from the penicillins in having a 6 - membered ,  rather than a 5 - membered ,  side ring .
a quaternary ammonium ion based on the choline ion and its substituted derivatives thereof .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of cysteine by a heteroatom .
a hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acid carrying two hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glutamate -  - ammonia ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .2 )  .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glycine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of glycine by a heteroatom .
any disaccharide in which the two monosaccharide components are connected by a glycosidic linkage between their anomeric centres .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
any organonitrogen compound containing a carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  group .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
any member of the class of 5beta - cholanic acids carrying at least one hydroxy group at unspecified position .
any carboxylic acid with at least one hydroxy group .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
a 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid having either  ( 2r , 3r )  -  or  ( 2s , 3s )  - configuration .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
oxo carboxylic acids formally derived from aldonic acids by replacement of a secondary choh group by a carbonyl group .
any hexose containing a single ketone group .
ketonic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy ketones h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o )  [ ch ( oh )  ] mh )  and their intramolecular hemiketals .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
any cyclic carboxylic ester containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or an analogue having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isobutyl group .
a diamino acid that is caproic  ( hexanoic )  acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members derived from a polyketide .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
an agent that increases the frequency of mutations above the normal background level ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
a solute used by a cell under water stress to maintain cell volume .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
any fatty acid anion containing at least one c - c unsaturated bond ;  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
a quinone in which the two oxo groups of the quinone are located para to each other on the 6 - membered quinonoid ring .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
natural and synthetic compounds containing alternating carbonyl and methylene groups  ( 'beta - polyketones' )  ,  biogenetically derived from repeated condensation of acetyl coenzyme a  ( via malonyl coenzyme a )  ,  and usually the compounds derived from them by further condensations ,  etc .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
any fatty acid containing more than one double bond .
a quinone substituted by a polyprenyl - derived side - chain .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from pyrimidine .
a nitrogen molecular entity that is electronically neutral but which contains a quaternary nitrogen .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from 3 - phosphoglycerate  ( i .e .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
any steroid that acts as hormone .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
a subclass of polyketides having an octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide skeleton ,  substituted with many hydroxy and other groups .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
a natural pigment containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
an organic tricyclic compound in which at least one of the rings of the tricyclic skeleton contains one or more heteroatoms .
any member of the class of benzenes that is a substituted benzene in which the substituents include one  ( and only one )  methyl group .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
a chemical compound containing three hydroxy groups .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c or c#c bond .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isopropyl group .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27 .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the streptomyces genus of actinobacteria .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic that contains a beta - lactam ring .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
an aldohexose that is the c - 4 epimer of glucose .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
a ketohexose that is an isomer of glucose .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
an  n - acetyl - l - amino acid that is the n - acetylated derivative of the natural amino acid l - cysteine .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine in which the alpha - is substituted by a 3 - guanidinopropyl group .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of d - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the both the carboxy groups of l - glutamic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
an alkane that is propane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
a cobalt - corrinoid hexaamide that is cobalamin with the oxidation state of the central cobalt atom unspecified .
a derivative of the dimethylisoalloxazine  ( 7 , 8 - dimethylbenzo [ g ] pteridine - 2 , 4 ( 3h , 10h )  - dione )  skeleton ,  with a substituent on the 10 position .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of oxalic acid .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is butane in which one of the terminal methyl groups has been oxidised to a carboxy group .
a c6 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
any member of a group of hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acids occuring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of valeric acid ;  present in ester form as component of many steroid - based pharmaceuticals .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the l - enantiomer of cysteinium .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 1 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinate ( 2 -  )  .
the d - enantiomer of cysteinium .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylalanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of phenylalanine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glycine ,  arising from protonation of the amino .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glycine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of lysine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of lysine ,  having two cationic amino groups and an anionic carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation obtained by protonation of both amino groups of lysine .
an acene that consists of four ortho - fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of leucine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of leucine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of methionine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate acid of methionine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tyrosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tyrosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a serinate that is the conjugate base of l - serine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a serinium that is the conjugate acid of l - serine ,  obtained by protonation of the amino group .
the d - enantiomer of serinate .
the d - enantiomer of serinium .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of serine .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of serine .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a group of organic food substances found in animals and plants in small quantities .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis and is used in the treatment of tuberculosis .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
any material that can be ingested by an organism .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a serine zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of l - serine .
arylmethyl groups and derivatives formed by substitution: arcr2 -  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
any carboxylic acid having a sulfur substituent .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino - acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position gamma to the carboxy group .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
alkenols ;  the term refers specifically to vinylic alcohols ,  which have the structure hocr'=cr2 .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
an amino acid whose structure includes an aromatic ring .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a biological or chemical entity that bears a reagent role in virtue of it being intended for application in a scientific technique  to participate in  ( or have molecular parts that participate in )  a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some distinct entity ,  or the generation of some distinct material specified output .
a derivative of the corrin nucleus ,  which contains four reduced or partly reduced pyrrole rings joined in a macrocycle by three =c -  groups and one direct carbon - carbon bond linking alpha positions .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a quaternary ammonium ion that is the the conjugate acid of carnitine .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c20 terpene .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amnio group of serine .
a serine zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of d - serine .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an onium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
any neutral molecule having charge - separated forms with a quaternary ammonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
any drug that enhances the activity of the central nervous system .
amines that constitute a class of central nervous system stimulants based on the structure of the parent amphetamine 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
a sterol in which the hydroxy group at position 3 has beta -  configuration .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an amide of a sulfonic acid rs ( =o ) 2nr'2 .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
an ec 3 .4 .15 .*  ( peptidyl - dipeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of peptidyl - dipeptidase a  ( ec 3 .4 .15 .1 )  .
antidepressants are mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
a traditional grouping of drugs said to have a soothing or calming effect on mood ,  thought or behaviour .
anxiolytic drugs are agents that alleviate anxiety ,  tension ,  and anxiety disorders ,  promote sedation ,  and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions .
antipsychotic drugs are agents that control agitated psychotic behaviour ,  alleviate acute psychotic states ,  reduce psychotic symptoms ,  and exert a quieting effect .
antimanic drugs are agents used to treat bipolar disorders or mania associated with other affective disorders .
an agent capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
a narcotic or opioid substance ,  synthetic or semisynthetic agent producing profound analgesia ,  drowsiness ,  and changes in mood .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
a compound which inhibits or antagonises the biosynthesis or actions of androgens .
an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
an agent that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
a drug which lowers the blood glucose level .
an agent that binds to but does not activate beta - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous beta - adrenergic agonists .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
a heterobicyclic aromatic organic compound comprising a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring ;  the parent compound of the purines .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a food additive that is used to added improve the taste or odour of a food .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a four - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
an inhibitor of hiv protease ,  an enzyme required for production of proteins needed for viral assembly .
any ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that inhibits hmg - coa reductases .
any drug used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular hypertension regardless of pharmacological mechanism .
a substance used to treat hyperlipidemia  ( an excess of lipids in the blood )  .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
any dicarboxylic acid anion that is a monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of only one of the carboxy groups of the dicarboxylic acid .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
a central nervous system depressant used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
any member of the group of lipids containing a common glycerol backbone to which at least one fatty acid - derived group is attached .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
a substance that suppresses mycobacterium leprae ,  ameliorates the clinical manifestations of leprosy ,  and / or reduces the incidence and severity of leprous reactions .
any fatty acid in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents ;  a common component in animal and bacterial lipids .
any antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
a substance used to lower plasma cholesterol levels .
a gout suppressant that acts directly on the renal tubule to increase the excretion of uric acid ,  thus reducing its concentrations in plasma .
a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
a drug that increases uric acid excretion by the kidney  ( uricosuric drug )  ,  decreases uric acid production  ( antihyperuricemic )  ,  or alleviates the pain and inflammation of acute attacks of gout .
a drug used for its effect on the kidneys' regulation of body fluid composition and volume .
any monocarboxylic acid which also contains a separate  ( alcoholic or phenolic )  hydroxy substituent .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that has a hydroxy group beta to the carboxy group .
any amino acid carrying two amino groups .
natural and synthetic antibiotics containing the 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptan - 7 - one structure ,  generally assumed to have the 5r configuration unless otherwise specified .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of virus diseases .
a drug used to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
any monocarboxylic acid anion carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
conjugate base of chenodeoxycholic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a steroid acid that consists of cholane having a carboxy group in place of the methyl group at position 24 .
members of the class of cholanic acids based on a 5beta - cholane skeleton .
any member of a group of drugs that reversibly inhibit the propagation of signals along nerves .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
any of a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid in which the 3 - hydroxy substituent is in the  beta - position .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of phytanic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
a 7 , 8 - dimethylbenzo [ g ] pteridine - 2 , 4 - dione that is  isoalloxazine substituted by methyl groups at positions 7 and 8 .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the pteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
a compound which inhibits or antagonizes the biosynthesis or actions of proteases  ( endopeptidases )  .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .8 )  .
a penam that consists of 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptane bearing a carboxy group at position 2 and having  ( 2s , 5r )  - configuration .
a straight chain alkane composed of 4 carbon atoms .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates adrenergic receptors .
an agent that binds to but does not activate adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous adrenergic agonists .
an agent that binds to but does not activate alpha - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous alpha - adrenergic agonists .
histamine antagonists are the drugs that bind to but do not activate histamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of histamine or histamine agonists .
drugs used for their actions on histaminergic systems .
any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects the life cycle of an adrenergic transmitter .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
a compound composed of two or more pyrrole units .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
one of a class of drugs that acts by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cell membranes or on the release and binding of calcium in intracellular pools .
a branched chain amino acid that consists of 3 - methylpentanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a member of the class of  pyrimidines that is pyrimidine substituted by at least one amino group and its derivatives .
an ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme acetylcholinesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .7 )  ,  which helps breaking down of acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid .
an ec 1 .4 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of monoamine oxidase  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .4 )  .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
an agent that inhibits sodium influx through cell membranes .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
substance that produces loss of consciousness .
any alkylbenzene that is benzene substituted with one or more methyl groups .
a  monocyclic arene that is benzene substituted with one or more alkyl groups .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
any saturated fatty acid with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
any drug which can be used to prevent or alleviate glaucoma ,  a disease in which the optic nerve is damaged ,  resulting in progressive ,  irreversible loss of vision .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a primary aliphatic amine that is butane substituted by an amino group at position 1 .
a ubiquinone having a side chain of 10 isoprenoid units .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of oxalic acid .
any ester resulting from the condensation of one or more of the hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
a chemical compound that can be excited by light of a specific wavelength and subsequently transfer energy to a chosen reactant .
any steroid substituted by at least one carboxy group .
a compound ,  usually an anti - bacterial agent or a toxin ,  which inhibits the synthesis of a protein .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  acceptor .
self - ionizing solvent possessing both characteristics of bronsted acids and bases .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
a drug used in the treatment of parkinson's disease .
an agent and endogenous substances that antagonize or inhibit the development of new blood vessels .
a local anesthetic that is used to numb the surface of a body part .
any drug that acts on an alpha - adrenergic receptor .
any of the drugs that act on beta - adrenergic receptors .
a role played by a substance that can react readily with ,  and thereby eliminate ,  radicals .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains a n atom and one s atom .
any l - alpha - amino acid carrying an n - acyl substituent .
a chemical substance which inhibits the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a drug designed to prevent leukotriene synthesis or activity by blocking binding at the receptor level .
a drug used to treat asthma .
one of various classes of drugs with different action mechanisms used to treat or ameliorate peptic ulcer or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
an agent that binds to and activates excitatory amino acid receptors .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from a steroid acid .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
any protective agent counteracting or neutralizing the action of poisons .
drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
any steroid based on a cholestane skeleton and its derivatives .
a drug or agent which antagonizes or impairs any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation ,  whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense - granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin - thromboxane system .
substance that sweeten food ,  beverages ,  medications ,  etc .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
a substance that possess antiestrogenic actions but can also produce estrogenic effects as well .
an ec 1 .14 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating of 1 atom of oxygen ,  with reduced flavin or flavoprotein as one donor )  inhibitor which interferes with the action of aromatase  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .14 )  and so reduces production of estrogenic steroid hormones .
a drug used to treat hyperparathyroidism by reducing the excessive production of parathyroid hormones .
a compound which inhibits or antagonises the biosynthesis or actions of estrogens .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
a cardiovascular drug that prevents atherogenesis ,  the accumulation of lipid - containing plaques on the innermost layers of the arteries .
a drug used to treat allergic reactions .
a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
a drug used to prevent nausea or vomiting .
an agent that modulates the physiologic angiogenesis process .
an agent that induces or stimulates the physiologic angiogenesis process .
a compound that specifically inhibits the reuptake of serotonin in the brain .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a cyclic compound containing nine or more atoms as part of the cyclic system .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement and their substitution derivatives .
compounds containing a tetracene skeleton .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from the carboxy group of a penicillin .
a drug used to produce muscle relaxation  ( excepting neuromuscular blocking agents )  .
a drug used for its actions on skeletal muscle .
a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the amino group of an amino acid .
compounds containing a biotin  ( 5 -  [  ( 3as , 4s , 6ar )  - 2 - oxohexahydro - 1h - thieno [ 3 , 4 - d ] imidazol - 4 - yl ] pentanoic acid )  skeleton .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a compound with the general formula r2c=o  ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group .
an oxyketone with the general formula r2c ( =o )   ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group and the oxy and carbonyl groups are bonded to the same carbon atom .
any drug found useful in the symptomatic treatment of diarrhoea .
a drug used for its effects on the gastrointestinal system ,  e .g .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of glycine .
a fatty acid anion with a chain length of c13 to c22 .
zwitterionic form of gamma - amino - beta - hydroxybutyric acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of 6 - aminopenicillanic acid arising from migration of a proton from the carboxy group to the 6 - amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of creatine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the guanidino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the anion resulting from removal of a proton from the nitrogen at the 3 position  ( between the two carbonyl gropus )  of riboflavin .
the conjugate acid of a primary aliphatic amine .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of trimethylamine ,  obtained via protonation of the nitrogen ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of an n - acetyl - d - amino acid .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
any fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any saturated fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any substance capable of eliciting an immune response only when attached to a large carrier such as a protein .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
any member of the sub - set of polyunsaturated fatty acid for which there is an absolute dietary requirement .
any fatty acid with a chain length of between c6 and c12 .
a fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety of a medium - chain fatty acid .
an  organic anion that is the conjugate base of diamino acid .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
the conjugate base of an n - acyl - d - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
a drug which interferes with the binding ,  fusion and entry of an hiv virion to a human cell .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydrolase acting on peptide bonds  ( peptidase )  ,  ec 3 .4 .* .
flavin protonated to ph 7 .3
any substance that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
any substance which inhibits the action of receptors for excitatory amino acids .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a hormone antagonist that blocks angiotensin receptors .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .98 )  .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
any hydroxy carboxylic acid which contains a hydroxy group located beta -  to the carboxylic acid group .
a lipid - rich mixture containing glycerol ,  fatty acids ,  phosphoric acid and other components .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
any branched - chain fatty acid containing methyl branches only .
any additive that enhances the efficiency of fuel .
any compound that is able to prevent damage to the liver .
the chemical role played by a substance that stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
a sulfur - containing amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a branched - chain amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
any compound that can be used for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders .
any lactone in which the cyclic carboxylic ester group forms a part of a cyclic macromolecule .
an antagonist at the metabotropic glutamate receptor .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates ampa receptors .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of methionine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 2 .1 .2 .*  ( hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine hydroxymethyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .1 )  .
an excitatory amino acid agonist which binds to nmda receptors and triggers a response .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
the role played by a substance in enhancing the appearance or odour of the human body ;  a name given to the substance itself or to a component of it .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
a drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by mycobacteria ,  a genus of actinobacteria .
an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the human immunodeficiency virus .
an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the herpes simplex virus  ( also known as the human herpes virus )  .
an anti - hsv agent agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of herpes simplex virus - 1 .
an anti - hsv agent agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of herpes simplex virus - 2 .
any compound that has anti - asthmatic effects .
antipsychotic drugs which can have different modes of action but which tend to be more likely than second generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements ;  such body movements can become permanent even after treatment has ceased .
antipsychotic drugs which can have different modes of action but which tend to be less likely than first generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
any substance which is used to neutralise stomach acidity .
an ammonium ion derivative resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amino compound .
an alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of citrulline ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of creatine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
any compound which can be used to treat or alleviate the symptoms of dyskinesia .
any compound used for the treatment of eye conditions or eye diseases .
an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any folic acid .
any branched - chain fatty acid anion containing methyl branches only .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
any 1 , 4 - benzoquinone carrying a single hydroxy substituent .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
an antagonist at the ampa receptor .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of tetracycline obtained by deprotonation of the two enolic hydroxy groups and protonation of the tertiary amino group .
benzoquinones with at least one hydroxy substituent .
an amino - acid anion in which the amino group is situated gamma -  to the carboxylate group .
any compound that promotes the growth of new blood vessels from pre - existing vessels .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
a drug used in treating and healing of wounds .
a role borne by a molecule that acts to counteract or neutralize the deleterious effects of paracetamol  ( acetaminophen )  .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - n bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a ligase  ( ec 6 .* .* .* )  .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
a role played by any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
any unsaturated fatty acid anion containing more than one c - c unsaturated bond .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any omega - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of transferase of a one - carbon - containing group  ( ec 2 .1 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of a lyase  ( ec 4 .* .* .* )  .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - n lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - oh group of donors  ( ec 1 .1 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh2 group of donors  ( ec 1 .4 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on hydrogen as donors  ( ec 1 .14 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of a peptidyl dipeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .15 .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any acid - ammonia  ( or amine )  ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .
an ec 4 .3 .*  ( c - n lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .
an ec 1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group )  inhibitor that uses nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using reduced flavin or flavoprotein as donor  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .
an ec 1 .4 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .
a drug which increases the blood glucose level .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
a compound that alters the structure of mucus so as to decrease its viscosity and thereby facilitate its removal by ciliary action and expectoration .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prostaglandin - e2 9 - reductase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .189 )  .
a food additive that imparts colour to food .
a diuretic that acts on the ascending loop of henle in the kidney .
an ec 4 .3 .1 .*  ( ammonia - lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of histidine ammonia - lyase  ( ec 4 .3 .1 .3 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy group to the 1 - amino group of tetracycline .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 3 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 4 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 6 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 16 carbons .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of  n - acetyl - l - cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexadecanoic acid  ( palmitic acid )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
a member of the class of monohydroxy - 1 , 4 - benzoquinones that is 2 - hydroxy - 1 , 4 - benzoquinone carrying an additional methyl substituent at position 5 .
an elemental molecular entity in which all of the atoms have atomic number 26 .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia galeata .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any derivative of a non - proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group or carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from the formal reaction of l - cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - cysteine by a heteroatom .
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 - saturated fatty acid .
a methyl - branched fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 3 - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - glutamic acid by a heteroatom .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human urine samples .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
any cosmetic used to lighten the colour of skin by reducing the concentration of melanin .
any member of the class of cholanic acids carrying two hydroxy substituents at unspecified positions .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related skeleton .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
a class of sulfonamides whose members generally have bacteriostatic antibiotic properties .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the hydroxy group of 2 - hydroxy - 5 - methylquinone .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
any inhibitor of erythropoietin ,  a glycoprotein hormone that controls erythropoiesis  ( red blood cell production )  .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
an epithelial cell that is part of a duct .
an endothelial cell that lines the vasculature .
a flattened epithelial cell of mesenchymal origin that lines the serous cavity .
a cell which moves among different tissues of the body ,  via blood ,  lymph ,  or other medium .
an epithelial cell of the lung .
an epithelial cell of the pancreas .
an endothelial cell comprises the outermost layer or lining of anatomical structures and can be squamous or cuboidal .
a specialized epithelial cell that is capable of synthesizing and secreting certain biomolecules .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
a cell of an exocrine gland ;  i .e .
a cell of an endocrine gland ,  ductless glands that secrete substances which are released directly into the circulation and which influence metabolism and other body functions .
a somatic cell located in skeletal muscle .
a cell within an epithelial cell sheet whose main function is to act as an internal or external covering for a tissue or an organism .
a cell whose primary function is to prevent the transport of stuff across compartments .
a supporting cell projecting inward from the basement membrane of seminiferous tubules .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell that lacks a nucleus .
a cell with a single nucleus .
a cell with more than one nucleus .
an epithelial cell found in the trachea .
a cell secreting sebun ,  an oily substance secreted by sebaceous glands ,  composed of keratin ,  fat ,  and cellular debris .
an epithelial cell of the integument  ( the outer layer of an organism )  .
a peptide hormone secreting cell that secretes androgen binding protein .
an epithelial cell of the cornea .
a secretory cell that is grouped together with other cells of the same type to form grape shaped clusters known as acini  ( singular acinus )  .
a cell whose primary function is to support other cell types .
a connective tissue cell found in bone .
a cell found in an organism or derived from an organism exhibiting a phenotype that deviates from the expected phenotype of any native cell type of that organism .
a secretory cell found in pancreatic acini that secretes digestive enzymes and mucins .
an epithelial cell derived from endoderm .
an epithelial cell derived from ectoderm .
epithelial cell derived from mesoderm or mesenchyme .
a cell found in the bone marrow .
a cell of the adrenal cortex .
an endothelial cell of the vascular tree ,  which includes blood vessels and lymphatic vessels .
a sebum secreting cell of the skin that secretes sebum into the hair follicles .
an endothelial cell found in capillaries .
an epithelial cell of the uterus .
epithelial cells derived from general body ectoderm and ectoderm placodes .
an epithelial cell found in the lining of the stomach .
a mucous cell in the epithelium of the stomach .
an epithelial cell of the tracheobronchial tree .
an epithelial cell of the prostate .
a cell containing at least one nucleus .
an epithelial cell of the musculomembranous digestive tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
an epithelial cell of the esophagus .
an epithelial cell of the large intestine .
an epithelial cell of the small intestine .
an epithelial cell of thyroid gland .
an epithelial cell of the parathyroid gland .
an endothelial cell that lines any of the venous cavities through which blood passes in various glands and organs such as the spleen and liver .
an epithelial cell of the thymus .
an epithelial cell of a skin gland .
an ecto - epithelial cell of the prostate gland that secretes hormones .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
a cell of the embryo .
an epithelial cell of the bronchus .
an endothelial cell that lines the intracavitary lumen of the heart ,  separating the circulating blood from the underlying myocardium .
an epithelial cell of the cortical portion of the thymus .
an epithelial cell of the medullary thymus .
a cell that lines the trabecular meshwork ,  which is an area of tissue in the eye located around the base of the cornea ,  near the ciliary body ,  and is responsible for draining the aqueous humor from the eye via the anterior chamber  ( the chamber on the front of the eye covered by the cornea )  .
an endo - epithelial cell of the respiratory tract .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a cell located in the heart ,  including both muscle and non muscle cells .
a cell of the adventitial layer of ductal structures such as the uterer ,  defent duct ,  biliary duct ,  etc
an epithelial cell of the kidney .
an epithelial cell of the cervix .
an epithelial cell of the intrahepatic portion of the bile duct .
an endothelial cell that is part of the vein .
an endothelial progenitor cell that participates in angiogenesis during development .
an animal cell that is part of a hair follicle .
an epithelial cell of the intestine .
a connective tissue cell of the nucleus pulposus cell of intervertebral disc .
an epithelial cell of the placenta .
an epithelial cell of the kidney cortex .
a blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of the retina .
an acinar cell of salivary gland .
a cell of the seminiferous tubule epithelium .
a glandular epithelial cell of the endometrium .
a glandular epithelial cell of the esophagus .
a glandular epithelial cell of the large intestine .
a glandular epithelial cell that is part of the stomach .
an endocrine cell that is part of the pancreas .
any cell in the retina ,  the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an epithelial cell that is part_of a umbilical artery .
a cell in the area of mesoderm in the neurulating embryo that flanks and forms simultaneously with the neural tube .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the epicardium .
epithelial cell that is part of the colon epithelium .
an epithelial cell that is part of the urethra .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the dura mater .
an endothelial cell that is part of the hepatic sinusoid .
an endothelial cell that is part of the arteriole .
a blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of an arterial endothelium .
an endothelial cell that is part of the venule .
an epithelial cell that is part of the gallbladder .
an epithelial cell that is part of the external acoustic meatus .
an epithelial cell that is part of the lacrimal sac .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelial cell that is part of the sweat gland .
an epithelial cell that is part of the nephron .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the parietal peritoneum .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the visceral peritoneum .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the peritoneum .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the pleura .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the parietal pleura .
a mesothelial cell that is part of the visceral pleura .
an epithelial cell that is part of a nephron tubule .
an epithelial cell of the exocrine pancreas .
a vascular endothelial cell found in colon blood vessels .
cell of the nasopharyngeal epithelium .
squamous cell of uterine cervix epithelium .
squamous cell of oral epithelium .
squamous cell of tonsil epithelium .
squamous cell of vaginal epithelium .
glandular cell of uterine cervix epithelium .
glandular cell of colon epithelium .
glandular cell of duodenal epithelium .
glandular cell of epididymal epithelium .
glandular cell of oviduct epithelium .
glandular cell of gall bladder epithelium .
glandular cell of parathyroid epithelium .
glandular cell of rectal epithelium .
glandular cell of salivary gland .
glandular cell of seminal vesicle epithelium .
a glandular cell found in the epithelium of the small intestine .
glandular cell of exocrine pancreas epithelium .
hormone secreting cell located in the cortex of adrenal gland .
endothelial cells forming the walls of the capillaries within the cerebral cortex .
any cell that is part of a pituitary gland .
any blood vessel endothelial cell that is part of a dermis .
any native cell that is part of a inner cell mass .
any native cell that is part of a sebaceous gland .
any native cell that is part of a cardiac septum .
any native cell that is part of a hypothalamus .
any endothelial cell of artery that is part of a umbilical cord .
any endothelial cell that is part of a spleen .
any epithelial cell that is part of a female gonad .
any vein endothelial cell that is part of a hindlimb stylopod .
a nucleus size quality which is relatively high compared to the amount of cytoplasm present in the same cell .
a portion of environmental material is a fiat object part which forms the medium or part of the medium of an environmental system .
food material for humans and animals which is processed with the intention that it be consumable as a whole or added to other food products .
a food product made of meat ,  the skeletal muscle and associated fat ,  and other edible tissues such as organs ,  livers ,  skin ,  brains ,  bone marrow ,  kidneys ,  or lungs ,  of mammals .
this class includes food products which are derived from or produced by a plant .
meat from bovines ,  especially domestic cattle  ( cows )  .
a seafood product is a vertebrate or invertibrate organism from an aquatic environment .
a lipid material derived from plants .
a food product which is derived from or produced by an animal that has a vertibrae .
a food product made from an avian egg .
a food product made from domesticated bird meat .
a relish ,  sauce ,  or seasoning  added to food to impart a particular flavour or to complement the dish .
a food product deriving primarily from corn  ( maize )  .
a product of the dry seeds of plants of the genus pisum .
pulses are annual leguminous crops yielding from one to 12 grains or seeds of variable size ,  shape and colour within a pod .
a vegetable product such as leaves ,  flowers ,  seeds and roots that is rich in essential oils and aromatic principles .
a fish food product includes products made from any fish species  ( aquatic vertebrate with gills and fins )  .
a dairy food product has mammilian milk or a milk component as an ingredient .
any plant food product which ,  typically ,  is constituted by intact parts from one or more annual plants cultivated as field and garden crops in the open and under glass ,  and used almost exclusively for food .
mature ovary of a plant ,  with a fleshy part of the carpel that develops with the seed to attract animals for aid in dispersal .
a one - celled fruit  ( pod )  usually dehiscing down both sutures ,  and having the seed attached along a ventral suture .
a food consisting of a round or oval body laid by the female of many animals ,  consisting of an ovum surrounded by layers of membranes and an outer casing ,  which acts to nourish and protect a developing embryo and its nutrient reserves .
a hen egg food product is any food product consisting mainly of hen eggs or derivatives .
a food product from a category of domestic birds kept for meat ,  eggs ,  and feathers including fowl such as chickens ,  turkeys ,  and waterfowls such as domestic ducks and geese and other meat birds such as pigeons and doves and games birds including pheasants .
hoi - dong is fermented sea mussel
fermented meat product is any product made primarily of meat subjected to a fermentation process .
an alcoholic drink  ( or alcoholic beverage )  is a drink that contains ethanol ,  a type of alcohol produced by fermentation of grains ,  fruits ,  or other sources of sugar .
a bean vegetable food product is a human or animal food product  -  such as a snap ,  shell or dry bean product  -  derived from the fruit pod ,  seed ,  or leaf of one of several genera of the flowering plant family fabaceae .
a broad bean food product is a product derived from the broad bean plant .
a cabbage vegetable food product is a food product derived from the head or leaf portion of a cabbage plant .
a food product that derives from a cauliflower plant .
a food product which normally exists as an ingredient to another food product ,  rather than eaten on its own ,  and is more complex than a chemical food component .
a product made from the north american term for maize  ( zea mays )  grown for livestock fodder  ( silage )  ,  ethanol ,  cereal and processed food products .
a food product having peanuts as an ingredient .
an edible plant fat or oil product with characteristics that consumers desire such as bland flavour and odour ,  clear appearance ,  light colour ,  stability to oxidation and suitability for frying ,  and which is the result of a refining process that removes free fatty acids .
a soybean food product is a product derived from the soybean plant .
a meal type is the name of an eating occasion that may have location ,  food type ,  or other customary contextual features .
a food product consisting of food material derived primarily from a single organism .
food material is any substance that can be consumed by an organism to satisfy nutritional or other health needs ,  or to provide a social or organoleptic food experience
a process involving the physical transformation of a food source or food product into some derived organic material or food product
invertebrates are animals that neither possess nor develop a vertebral column  ( commonly known as a backbone or spine )  ,  derived from the notochord .
a class which contains food product categories qualified by a quality such as granularity or temperature ,  which is useful for tasks like food inspection where little prior knowledge of how the food came to be is available .
a food product consisting of food material derived from ingredients sourced from multiple organisms .
dairy cattle are a type of cattle bred for the ability to produce large quantities of milk ,  from which dairy products are made .
taurine cattle  ( bos taurus taurus )  ,  also called european cattle ,  are a subspecies of domesticated cattle originating in the near east .
an aquatic invertebrate may live entirely beneath the water ,  or may live upon its surface or on the plants surrounding it .
a food product organized by the process which it results from .
a lipid food product is a food product made primarily of plant or animal fat or oil
a whole bean is a bean having an intact seed shape and composition .
a liver food product is a food product that derives from one or more liver organs .
the red cabbage  ( purple - leaved varieties of brassica oleracea capitata group )  is a kind of cabbage ,  also known as purple cabbage ,  red kraut ,  or blue kraut after preparation .
a multicellular eukaryotic heterotrophic organism within the kingdom animalia .
a food product not including meat and animal tissue products  ( such as gelatin or animal - derived rennet )  .
a seed of a peanut plant  ( arachis hypogaea )  .
a genus of plants in the mustard family  ( brassicaceae )  .
food contact materials are materials that are intended to be in contact with food .
a whole raw shell - off hen egg is the egg yolk and egg white obtained from a cracked egg .
a seed of a broad bean plant  ( vicia faba )  .
a pod of a peanut plant .
a seed of a soyabean plant  ( glycine max )  .
a bean substance is a substance made by processing seed from a bean plant .
a liquid prepared for consumption ,  or a product that can be combined with water or milk to make one .
breast milk is the milk produced by the breasts  ( or mammary glands )  of a human female to feed a child .
a whole raw liver is a whole liver organ obtained from an animal during a butchery process .
hominy is a food produced from dried maize  ( corn )  kernels that have been treated with an alkali ,  in a process called nixtamalization  ( nextamalli is the nahuatl word for  \ "hominy \ " )  .
a whole raw kidney is a kidney obtained from an animal during a butchery process .
a fish product is a home - made or commercially produced or retail or wholesale product containing substantial amounts of freshwater or saltwater fish and / or shellfish flesh .
an egg produced by a chicken hen .
a commercial product which is monosaccharide fructose ,  dried ,  ground ,  and of high purity .
a meat product is a product organized by the form of  -  or processing done to  -  its meat component  ( a skeletal meat part of an animal or crustacean )  .
liquid food prepared from fruit  ( 21 cfr 146 )  .
seasoned product that contains multiple ingredients and that is used in limited amounts to accompany other foods ;  excludes flavors ,  spices and herbs .
beverage containing no more than 0 .5% alcohol ;  it may be flavored ,  sweetened or carbonated ;  includes soft drinks and steeped beverages ;  excludes milk in all forms ,  fruit juices ,  diluted fruit juices and vegetable juices .
aromatic or pungent plant product used whole or ground as a seasoning in food products .
a substance having greater than 2% of the caloric value of sucrose per equivalent unit of sweetening capacity .
any form of whole or milled grain ,  prepared grain product or starch containing product derived from non - grain sources .
the liquid extracted or expressed from mature fruit with or without the application of heat .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate derived from a food source through one or more refining steps  ( see *extract ,  concentrate or isolate of plant or animal* )  and marketed as such .
product that imparts or helps to impart a taste or aroma in food  ( 21 cfr .170 .3 ( n )  ( 26 )  .
a multiple - component food product typically containing a protein source ,  a vegetable ,  and a potato ,  rice or cereal - based component packaged to be served after heating ,  either as separate items or courses or mixed as recipe components ;  see 21 cfr 102 .26 ,  102 .28 and 104 .47 for nutritional quality guidelines .
fruit in all forms ;  includes fruit juices and fruit juice drinks ,  fruit butters ,  jellies ,  preserves ,  and related products .
milk in all forms ,  milk - based beverage ,  cultured milk product ,  or milk or milk product analog .
food product prepared by milling a grain or by producing flour ,  meal or grits from a non - grain source such as beans ,  starchy roots or tubers .
meat  ( flesh and organs including blood and bone marrow )  from mammals .
vegetables in all forms except where a use - related product type descriptior  ( such as *prepared food product* or *snack food* )  takes precedence .
milk ,  a product derived from milk ,  or a dairy product analog ;  includes cheese and frozen dairy desserts .
food product that is 1 )  ready or nearly ready for consumption ;  2 )  usually a composite of several foods or ingredients that often belong to distinct product types ;  3 )  usually formulated ,  mixed and partially or fully cooked .
food product that is usually pungent ,  tart ,  salty ,  or spicy and is used to enhance the flavors of other foods ;  includes catsup ,  relish ,  prepared mustard ,  prepared horseradish ,  and condiment sauces .
alcoholic beverage prepared from water ,  malted grain and hops  ( humulus )  by brewing .
products of the flesh of animals .
alcoholic or nonalcoholic beverage ;  excludes milk and milk - based beverages ,  fruit juices and fruit juice drinks ,  and vegetable juices .
a product added to a food item to achieve some degree of sweet taste ;  it may be nutritive or nonnutritive .
fruits and vegetables in all forms .
nuts in all forms ,  including nut butters and pastes .
fresh egg in shell ,  liquid ,  frozen ,  dried egg or egg component ,  or egg product analog .
the liquid extracted or expressed from mature vegetables with or without optional ingredients such as seasoning or salt .
flesh from fish or shellfish .
any form of cacao ,  cacao product ,  chocolate ,  chocolate product or chocolate product analog except chocolate candy ;  includes such products as cacao beans ,  cacao nibs ,  chocolate liquor ,  sweet or milk chocolate ,  and chocolate syrup ;  excludes flavors and extracts derived from cacao beans and chocolate -  or cacao - flavored foods  ( 21 cfr 163 )  .
meat  ( flesh and organs including blood and bone marrow )  from poultry .
beverage containing more than 0 .5% alcohol ;  includes distilled spirits ,  malt beverage ,  and wine .
food group having common consumption ,  functional or manufacturing characteristics ,  e .g .
renamed from *product type ,  codex alimentarius* in langual 2008 .
an agency food product type is a class of food product defined by an agency or consortium .
codex alimentarius ,  volume 2  -  1993 ,  section 2:  pesticide residues in food . \ n \ nthe codex classification of food and animal feed commodities moving in trade and the description of the various items and groups of food and animal feedstuffs included in the present document have been developed by the codex committee on pesticide residues .
vegetables are foods derived from many different kinds of plants mostly annual and usually cultivated ,  commonly known by custom and tradition as  \ "vegetables \ " . \ nin several countries ,  some of these commodities grown on large areas are distinguished as  \ "field crops \ " or arable crops e .g .
brassica  ( cole or cabbage )  vegetables and flowerhead brassicas are foods derived from the leafy heads ,  stems and immature inflorescences of plants belonging to the genus brassica or the family cruciferae .
food and drugs ,  title 21 ,  code of federal regulations .
an aquatic animal is an animal ,  either vertebrate or invertebrate ,  which lives in the water for most or all of its lifetime .
any chemical or chemical mixture that exists in a food material or was added to a food material .
mammals  ( from latin mamma  \ "breast \ " )  are vertebrate animals constituting the class mammalia ,  and characterized by the presence of mammary glands which in females produce milk for feeding  ( nursing )  their young ,  a neocortex  ( a region of the brain )  ,  fur or hair ,  and three middle ear bones .
aquatic animals other than fish and shellfish
a legume  is a plant or its fruit or seed in the family *fabaceae*  ( or *leguminosae* )  .
cattle  ( colloquially cows )  are the most common type of large domesticated ungulates .
winter squash is an annual fruit representing several squash species within the genus cucurbita .
a dairy cow is an adult female member of a dairy cattle breed
fish are the gill - bearing aquatic craniate animals that lack limbs with digits .
mussel is the common name used for members of several families of bivalve molluscs ,  from saltwater and freshwater habitats .
rapeseed  ( *brassica napus* )  ,  also known as rape ,  oilseed rape ,  charlock  ( and ,  in the case of one particular group of cultivars ,  canola )  ,  is a bright - yellow flowering member of the family *brassicaceae*  ( mustard or cabbage family )  ,  cultivated mainly for its oil - rich seed .
kale  ( also called borecole )  is a form of cabbage  ( *brassica oleracea* acephala group )  in which the central leaves do not form a head .
a vertebrate animal is any species of organism within the subphylum vertebrata  ( chordates with backbones )  .
any grass cultivated  ( grown )  for the edible components of its grain .
*vicia faba* ,  the broad bean ,  is a species of bean  ( *fabaceae* )  native to north africa and southwest asia ,  and extensively cultivated elsewhere .
crustaceans form a large ,  diverse arthropod taxon which includes such familiar animals as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimp ,  krill ,  woodlice ,  and barnacles .
field corn is maize of varieties that  ( in contrast with sweet corn and popcorn )  are not ,  in the united states ,  grown primarily for consumption as human food in the form of fresh kernels .
cabbage or headed cabbage  ( comprising several cultivars of brassica oleracea )  is a leafy blue ,  red  ( purple )  ,  or white  ( pale blue )  biennial plant grown as an annual vegetable crop for its dense - leaved heads .
the term shellfish is used both broadly and specifically .
broccoli is a plant in the cabbage family ,  whose large flower head is used as a vegetable .
this is a hierarchy of organisms ,  grouped minimally in a combination of taxonomy and consumer - oriented food groups .
leaf vegetables ,  also called leafy greens ,  salad greens ,  pot herbs ,  vegetable greens ,  or simply greens ,  are plant leaves eaten as a vegetable ,  sometimes accompanied by tender petioles and shoots .
a bean plant is one of several genera of the flowering plant family fabaceae ,  which has seed pods ,  seeds ,  and / or leaf material used for human or animal food .
a mature female chicken  ( usually more than 10 months of age )  with meat less tender than that of a roaster ,  and with a nonflexible breastbone tip .
cucurbita  ( latin for gourd )  is a genus of herbaceous vines in the gourd family ,  cucurbitaceae ,  also known as cucurbits ,  native to the andes and mesoamerica .
*mollusca* is a large phylum of invertebrate animals whose members are known as molluscs or mollusks .
*bivalvia* ,  in previous centuries referred to as the *lamellibranchiata* and *pelecypoda* ,  is a class of marine and freshwater molluscs that have laterally compressed bodies enclosed by a shell consisting of two hinged parts .
echinoderm is the common name given to any member of the phylum *echinodermata* of marine animals .
a cephalopod is any member of the molluscan class *cephalopoda* such as a squid ,  octopus or nautilus .
*coelenterata* is an obsolete term encompassing the animal phyla *cnidaria*  ( coral animals ,  true jellies ,  sea anemones ,  sea pens ,  and their allies )  and *ctenophora*  ( comb jellies )  .
a chemical food component in liquid form .
food additive ;  technological purpose ( s ) : bulking agent ,  humectant ,  sequestrant ,  stabilizer ,  sweetener .
this section list vitamins and mineral substances which may be used in the manufacture of food supplements . \ ndirective 2002 / 46 / ec of the european parliament and of the council of 10 june 2002 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to food supplements .
the biological subfamily *bovinae* includes a diverse group of 10 genera of medium -  to large - sized ungulates ,  including domestic cattle ,  the bison ,  african buffalo ,  the water buffalo ,  the yak ,  and the four - horned and spiral - horned antelopes .
a bovid  ( family *bovidae* )  is any of almost 140 species of cloven - hoofed ,  ruminant mammal which has males with characteristic unbranching horns covered in a permanent sheath of keratin . \ n \ nthe family is widespread ,  being native to asia ,  africa ,  europe and north america ,  and diverse: members include bison ,  african buffalo ,  water buffalo ,  antelopes ,  gazelles ,  sheep ,  goats ,  muskoxen ,  and domestic cattle .
the *cucurbitaceae* ,  also called cucurbits and the gourd family ,  are a plant family consisting of about 965 species in around 95 genera ,  the most important of which are:  \ n  *cucurbita*  -  squash ,  pumpkin ,  zucchini ,  some gourds ;   \ n  *lagenaria*  -  calabash ,  and others that are inedible ;   \ n  *citrullus*  -  watermelon  ( *c . lanatus ,  c . colocynthis* )  and others ;   \ n  *cucumis*  -  cucumber  ( *c . sativus* )  ,  various melons ;   \ n  *luffa*  -  luffa ,  loofah
tunicates ,  previously known as *urochordata* or urochordates ,  are members of the *tunicata* ,  a subphylum of the phylum *chordata* .
edible flesh of any type of animal ,  including poultry and seafood .
a broad term that includes the nutritive sweeteners dextrose ,  fructose ,  galactose ,  lactose ,  maltose and sucrose ,  which are simple carbohydrates with molecules composed of one or two saccharide units .
anatomical part of the plant or animal from which a food product or its major ingredient is derived .
bone ,  feathers ,  shell ,  skin or trim fat .
includes carcass meat ,  organ meat ,  and nonmeat parts of animals ,  as well as the whole animal .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate high in sugar ,  oligosaccharide or polysaccharide .
anatomical part of an animal ;  includes eggs and milk that ,  although separated from the animal ,  are produced as integral parts and are affected by the animal's food intake and metabolism .
the fleshy fruit of any plant .
bone  ( endoskeleton )  or shell  ( exoskeleton )  of animals ,  or any part thereof .
carcass meat from any type of animal including poultry and seafood .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate high in gluten ,  the predominant protein of wheat or corn .
food substance or component consisting predominantly of mixed glycerol esters of fatty acids and ,  in far lesser amounts ,  of fatty acids ,  sterols and pigments .
poultry ,  game bird or turtle eggs .
edible organ meat ,  including blood and bone marrow .
the egg yolk and albumen component of one or more eggs with shell removed .
a physical - chemical component separated from the food source or its parts by extraction ,  centrifugation ,  filtration ,  heat processing ,  expressing or a similar process .
extract ,  concentrate or isolate high in protein ;  may contain amino acids ,  polypeptides and enzymes .
meat from organs that do not belong to the cardiovascular ,  digestive or urogenital system .
the oil produced by pressing or extracting lipids from plant seeds  ( e .g .
the physical state of the food product  ( liquid ,  semiliquid ,  semisolid ,  or solid )  .
a state of matter between a solid and a gas ,  in which a substance has the capacity to flow and conforms to the shape of the container .
refers to natural or formed shape as appropriate ,  regardless of size ,  which may vary from very large  ( e .g . ,  beef carcass )  to very small  ( e .g . ,  poppy seed ,  yeast cell )  .
used to specifically characterize a food product based on the treatment or processes applied to the product or any indexed ingredient .
modified by microbial or enzymatic action resulting in molecular changes in any food component .
a fat or oil derived from vegetable material
the methods contributing to the prevention or retardation of microbial ,  enzymatic or oxidative spoilage and thus to the extension of shelf life .
the specific container or coating materials in direct contact with the food .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving citrulline ,  n5 - carbamoyl - l - ornithine ,  an alpha amino acid not found in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  homocysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving arginine ,  2 - amino - 5 -  ( carbamimidamido ) pentanoic acid .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeleton over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
a homeostatic process in which an organism modulates its internal body temperature .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving long - chain fatty acids ,  a long - chain fatty acid is a fatty acid with a chain length between c13 and c22 .
replacement ossification wherein bone tissue replaces cartilage .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the circulatory system .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
the part of a cell or its extracellular environment in which a gene product is located .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purines .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases ,  one of the two classes of nitrogen - containing ring compounds found in dna and rna ,  which include adenine and guanine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving arginine ,  2 - amino - 5 -  ( carbamimidamido ) pentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycine ,  aminoethanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoleucine ,   ( 2r* , 3r* )  - 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving leucine ,  2 - amino - 4 - methylpentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lysine ,  2 , 6 - diaminohexanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving methionine  ( 2 - amino - 4 -  ( methylthio ) butanoic acid )  ,  a sulfur - containing ,  essential amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - phenylalanine ,  the l - enantiomer of 2 - amino - 3 - phenylpropanoic acid ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - serine ,  the l - enantiomer of serine ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tyrosine ,  an aromatic amino acid ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving valine ,  2 - amino - 3 - methylbutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any betaine ,  the n - trimethyl derivative of an amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ornithine ,  an amino acid only rarely found in proteins ,  but which is important in living organisms as an intermediate in the reactions of the urea cycle and in arginine biosynthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids ,  aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions at the level of a cell .
the directed movement of proteins in a cell ,  including the movement of proteins between specific compartments or structures within a cell ,  such as organelles of a eukaryotic cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayer surrounding a mitochondrion .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions in the vacuole or between a vacuole and its surroundings .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
the directed movement of carbohydrate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which hexose is transported across a membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the aspartate family ,  comprising asparagine ,  aspartate ,  lysine ,  methionine and threonine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the serine family ,  comprising cysteine ,  glycine ,  homoserine ,  selenocysteine and serine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing a branched carbon skeleton ,  comprising isoleucine ,  leucine and valine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase ,  a nitrogenous base that is a constituent of a nucleic acid ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
the controlled release of proteins from a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carnitine  ( hydroxy - trimethyl aminobutyric acid )  ,  a compound that participates in the transfer of acyl groups across the inner mitochondrial membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
morphogenesis of an animal organ .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the directed movement of hormones into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the levels of hormone within an organism or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process in which a lipid is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
a collection of membranous structures involved in transport within the cell .
the lipid bilayer surrounding any membrane - bounded vesicle in the cell .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which a monosaccharide is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
an immunoglobulin complex that is present in the plasma membrane of b cells and that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains and a signaling subunit ,  a heterodimer of the ig - alpha and ig - beta proteins .
a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the process in which a signal is secreted or discharged into the extracellular medium from a cellular source .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations at the level of a cell .
a small subcellular vesicle ,  surrounded by a membrane ,  that is formed from the golgi apparatus and contains a highly concentrated protein destined for secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a cytoplasmic vesicle .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a secretory granule .
a membrane that is one of the two lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope or the outermost membrane of single membrane bound organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
a vesicle found in the cytoplasm of a cell .
any small ,  fluid - filled ,  spherical organelle enclosed by membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of lipids into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the directed movement of a protein from one location to another within a lipid bilayer .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  ( cooh )  group or anion  ( coo -  )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
a stable assembly of two or more macromolecules ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tetrapyrroles ,  natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process in which a carbohydrate is transported across a membrane .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
the increase in size or mass of an organ .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location within the extracellular region .
the regulated release of any steroid that acts as a hormone into the circulatory system .
ossification that requires the replacement of a preexisting tissue prior to bone tissue formation .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
a protein complex that contains a disulfide - linked heterodimer of t cell receptor  ( tcr )  chains ,  which are members of the immunoglobulin superfamily ,  and mediates antigen recognition ,  ultimately resulting in t cell activation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a membrane - bounded ,  cytoplasmic secretory granule found in enzyme - secreting cells and visible by light microscopy .
the lipid bilayer surrounding a zymogen granule .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur ,  the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid ;  an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and the processes involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the accumulation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dicarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing two carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of an endocrine process ,  a process involving the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine bases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the directed movement of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
the regulated release of hormones ,  substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ketone bodies ,  any one of the three substances: acetoacetate ,  d - 3 - hydroxybutyrate  ( beta - hydroxybutyrate )  or acetone ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ketone bodies ,  any one of the three substances: acetoacetate ,  d - 3 - hydroxybutyrate  ( beta - hydroxybutyrate )  or acetone .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the skeleton are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the multicellular organism .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a protein from a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
the process that involves the secretion of or response to endocrine hormones .
any process in which nutrients are taken up from the contents of the intestine .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the cytoplasm of a cell or between mitochondria and their surroundings .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of phosphate ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of anions within an organism or cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical at the level of the cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
the process in which a solute is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of bone over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which bones are generated and organized .
the process in which bones are generated and organized as a result of the conversion of initial cartilaginous anlage into bone .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the increase in size or mass of an anatomical structure that contributes to the structure attaining its shape .
the regulated release of a hormone into the circulatory system .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
any process in which a protein is transported from one specific location in the extracellular region to another ,  or maintained in a specific extracellular location .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of trivalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations within an organism or cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of proteins within cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving ornithine ,  an amino acid only rarely found in proteins ,  but which is important in living organisms as an intermediate in the reactions of the urea cycle and in arginine biosynthesis .
any vesicle that is part of the intracellular region .
the lipid bilayer that forms the outer - most layer of an organelle .
a membrane that is a part of a larger membrane .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
any lipid bilayer that completely encloses some structure ,  and all the proteins embedded in it or attached to it .
a cytoplasmic ,  membrane bound vesicle that is capable of fusing to the plasma membrane to release its contents into the extracellular space .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
the directed movement of some substance from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
the directed movement of a lipid from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acid derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fatty acid derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving erythrose 4 - phosphate / phosphoenolpyruvate family amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ketone body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving secondary alcohol .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
the process in which glucose is transported across a membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lipid localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of steroid hormone secretion .
deviation from the norm of height with respect to that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
an abnormality of the female internal genitalia .
dysfunction of the urinary bladder .
underdevelopment of the uterus .
an abnormality of the urinary bladder .
diverticulum  ( sac or pouch )  in the wall of the urinary bladder .
an abnormality of the male internal genitalia .
the presence of inflammation of the prostate .
the presence of inflammation of the epididymis .
an abnormality of male external genitalia .
an anomaly of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
penile length more than 2 sd above the mean for age .
lack of external genitalia in a male or female individual .
midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum .
underdevelopment of part or all of the male external reproductive organs  ( which include the penis ,  the scrotum and the urethra )  .
the presence of abnormally large testes .
an abnormality of the female external genitalia .
an abnormality of the clitoris .
developmental hypoplasia of the clitoris .
an abnormality of the ureter .
a developmental anomaly characterized by the presence of two ,  instead of one ,  ureter connecting a kidney to the bladder .
a congenital anomaly of the urinary tract ,  in which the kidney is duplicated and is drained via two separate renal pelves and ureters .
an abnormality of the kidney .
an abnormality of the genital system .
an abnormality of the urinary system .
an abnormal functionality of the genital system .
a duplication of the collecting system of the kidney ,  defined as a kidney with two  ( instead of ,  normally ,  one )  pyelocaliceal systems .
hypoplasia of the kidney .
an abnormality of the renal tubules .
a height above that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
agenesis ,  that is ,  failure of the kidney to develop during embryogenesis and development .
an abnormal increase in the size of the kidney .
a fluid filled sac in the kidney .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney .
a phenotypic abnormality .
the presence of any abnormality of the genitourinary system .
nephrocalcinosis is the deposition of calcium salts in renal parenchyma .
the presence of inflammation affecting the kidney .
an abnormality of the uterus .
the presence of a leiomyoma of the uterus .
the presence of a bifid uterus .
an abnormality of the ovary .
the presence of one or more cysts of the ovary .
any structural abnormality of the vagina .
aplasia of the uterus .
an abnormality of head and neck .
an abnormality of the mouth .
any abnormality of the tongue .
increased length and width of the tongue .
an abnormality of the lip .
abnormality of the oral cavity ,  i .e . ,  the opening or hollow part of the mouth .
any abnormality of the teeth .
decreased length and width of the tongue .
an abnormality of the lower lip .
a facial appearance characterized by a permanently or nearly permanently opened mouth .
the presence of a cleft in the oral cavity ,  the two main types of which are cleft lip and cleft palate .
the presence of a triangular form of the mouth .
an abnormality of the head .
any abnormality of the fontanelles  ( the regions covered by a thick membrane that normally ossify in the first two years of life )  or the cranial sutures  ( the fibrous joints in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments )  .
hydrocephalus is an active distension of the ventricular system of the brain resulting from inadequate passage of csf from its point of production within the cerebral ventricles to its point of absorption into the systemic circulation .
in newborns ,  the two frontal bones ,  two parietal bones ,  and one occipital bone are joined by fibrous sutures ,  which form a small posterior fontanelle ,  and a larger ,  diamond - shaped anterior fontanelle .
any abnormality of the size of the skull .
wedge - shaped ,  or triangular head ,  with the apex of the triangle at the midline of the forehead and the base of the triangle at the occiput .
an abnormal increase of density of the bones making up the calvaria .
head circumference below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender .
progressive microcephaly is diagnosed when the head circumference falls progressively behind age -  and gender - dependent norms .
occipitofrontal  ( head )  circumference greater than 97th centile compared to appropriate ,  age matched ,  sex - matched normal standards .
an abnormality of the face .
a face that is short  ( hp:0011219 )  and narrow  ( hp:0000275 )  .
facial height  ( length )  is more than 2 standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  an apparent increase in the height  ( length )  of the face  ( subjective )  .
increased prominence or roundness of soft tissues between zygomata and mandible .
an anomaly of a muscle that is innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
an anomaly of the midface ,  which is a region and not an anatomical term .
an abnormality of the external ear .
abnormal location of the ear .
an abnormality of the inner ear .
in otosclerosis ,  a callus of bone accumulates on the stapes creating a partial fixation .
an abnormality of the nose .
upper insertion of the ear to the scalp below an imaginary horizontal line drawn between the inner canthi of the eye and extending posteriorly to the ear .
an abnormality of the middle ear .
an abnormality of the external acoustic tube  ( also known as the auditory canal )  .
an abnormality of the cochlea .
an abnormality of the pinna ,  which is also referred to as the auricle or external ear .
inflammation or infection of the middle ear .
median longitudinal ear length greater than two standard deviations above the mean and median ear width greater than two standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  apparent increase in length and width of the pinna  ( subjective )  .
increased volume and globular shape of the anteroinferior aspect of the nose .
abnormality of the choanae  ( the posterior nasal apertures )  .
epistaxis ,  or nosebleed ,  refers to a hemorrhage localized in the nose .
an abnormality of the ala of nose .
thinned ,  deficient ,  or excessively arched ala nasi .
an abnormality of the nasal tip .
a splitting of the nasal tip .
an abnormality of the neck .
an increased amount of subcutaneous fat tissue around the neck .
diminished length of the neck .
dysplasia affecting the vasculature of the gastrointestinal tract .
increased inferior - superior length of the neck .
any abnormality of the eye ,  including location ,  spacing ,  and intraocular abnormalities .
a structural abnormality of the retina .
a notch or cleft of the retina .
any abnormality of the cornea ,  which is the transparent tissue at the front of the eye that covers the iris ,  pupil ,  and anterior chamber .
a congenital abnormality of the cornea in which the cornea and the anterior segment of the eye are smaller than normal .
an enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function .
an abnormality of the lens .
an abnormality of the iris ,  which is the pigmented muscular tissue between the cornea and the lens ,  that is perforated by an opening called the pupil .
abnormality of the iris characterized by ,  typically bilateral ,  complete or partial iris hypoplasia .
absence of the globe or eyeball .
an abnormality of the choroid and retina .
an abnormality of the uvea ,  the vascular layer of the eyeball .
inflammation of one or all portions of the uveal tract .
absence of a region of the retina ,  retinal pigment epithelium ,  and choroid .
a developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal smallness of one or both eyes .
hemorrhage occurring within the retina .
a developmental defect characterized by a cleft of some portion of the eye or ocular adnexa .
an abnormality of the sclera .
abnormality of the anterior chamber ,  which is the space in the eye that is behind the cornea and in front of the iris .
an abnormality of the ear .
an anomaly of the pharynx ,  i .e . ,  of the tubular structure extending from the base of the skull superiorly to the esophageal inlet inferiorly .
any structural abnormality of the choroid .
a coloboma of the iris .
an abnormality of the nasolacrimal drainage system ,  which serves as a conduit for tear flow from the external eye to the nasal cavity .
atrophy of the eyeball with blindness and decreased intraocular pressure due to end - stage intraocular disease .
the congenital absence of all teeth .
developmental hypoplasia of teeth .
decreased size of the teeth ,  which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter  ( width )  more than 2 sd below mean .
developmental dysplasia of dentin .
an abnormality of the nervous system .
an abnormality of mental functioning including various affective ,  behavioural ,  cognitive and perceptual abnormalities .
a state of unease characterized by diffuse motor activity or motion subject to limited control ,  nonproductive or disorganized behavior ,  and subjective distress .
a state of exceeding restlessness and excessive motor activity associated with mental distress or a feeling of inner tension .
a structural abnormality of the peripheral nervous system ,  which is composed of the nerves that lead to or branch off from the central nervous system .
any abnormality of the thorax  ( the region of the body formed by the sternum ,  the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs )  .
an abnormality of the breast .
an anomaly of the rib .
reduced rib length .
any abnormality of the diaphragm ,  the sheet of skeletal muscle that separates the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity .
abnormality of the thymus ,  an organ located in the upper anterior portion of the chest cavity just behind the sternum and whose main function is to provide an environment for t lymphocyte maturation .
underdevelopment of the thymus .
any abnormality of the scapula ,  also known as the shoulder blade .
the presence of blood in the urine .
an abnormality of the urethra ,  i .e . ,  of the tube which connects the urinary bladder to the outside of the body .
cysts of the cortex of the kidney .
an anomaly of the adnexa ,  uterus ,  and vagina  ( in female )  or seminal tract and prostate  ( in male )  .
an abnormality of the endocrine system .
a group of abnormalities characterized by hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance .
an abnormality of the thyroid gland .
the presence of chronic increased pressure in the systemic arterial system .
an abnormality of the parathyroid gland .
a condition caused by a deficiency of parathyroid hormone characterized by hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia .
a condition of reduced function of the anterior pituitary gland characterized by decreased secretion of one or more of the pituitary hormones growth hormone ,  thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  prolactin ,  luteinizing hormone ,  and follicle - stimulating hormone .
abnormality of the adrenal glands ,  i .e . ,  of the endocrine glands located at the top of the kindneys .
developmental hypoplasia of the adrenal glands .
excessive production of parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  by the parathyroid glands .
an enlargement of the thyroid gland .
developmental hypoplasia of the parathyroid gland .
abnormality of the pituitary gland  ( also known as hypophysis )  ,  which is an endocrine gland that protrudes from the bottom of the hypothalamus at the base of the brain .
a pituitary functional deficit affecting all the anterior pituitary hormones  ( growth hormone ,  thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  follicle - stimulating hormone ,  luteinizing hormone ,  adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  and prolactin )  .
underdeveloped scapula .
malformation of the rib cage .
a bifid rib refers to cleavage of the sternal end of a rib ,  usually unilateral .
a developmental anomaly with absence of one or more ribs .
an abnormality of the skeletal system .
any abnormality of the vertebral column .
an abnormality of the skull ,  the bony framework of the head which is comprised of eight cranial and fourteen facial bones .
osteopenia is a term to define bone density that is not normal but also not as low as osteoporosis .
an abnormality of the structure or form of the diaphysis ,  i .e . ,  of the main or mid - section  ( shaft )  of a long bone .
an abnormality of one or more metaphysis ,  i .e . ,  of the somewhat wider portion of a long bone that is adjacent to the epiphyseal growth plate and grows during childhood .
underdevelopment of the ilium .
an abnormality of the skin .
a darkening of the skin related to an increase in melanin production and deposition .
eczema is a form of dermatitis .
ectodermal dysplasia is a group of conditions in which there is abnormal development of the skin ,  hair ,  nails ,  teeth ,  or sweat glands .
any structural abnormality of the sweat gland .
a oval and round ,  colored  ( usually medium - to dark brown ,  reddish brown ,  or flesh colored )  lesion .
hypertrichosis is increased hair growth that is abnormal in quantity or location .
an abnormality of the pigmentation of the skin .
abnormally increased hair growth referring to a male pattern of body hair  ( androgenic hair )  .
a reduction of skin color related to a decrease in melanin production and deposition .
an abnormality of the biliary tree .
diffusely large eye  ( with megalocornea )  without glaucoma .
any structural abnormality of the fundus of the eye .
inflammation of the iris .
any abnormality of the size or morphology of the cornea .
an abnormality affecting one or both hands .
digits that appear disproportionately short compared to the hand / foot .
a kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary finger or fingers .
supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand  ( that is ,  on the side with the fifth finger )  .
an abnormality of the metacarpal bones .
an anomaly of a finger .
an abnormal structure of the first digit of the hand .
supernumerary digits located at the radial side of the hand .
a developmental defect resulting in the presence of fewer than the normal number of fingers .
an abnormality affecting the carpal bones of the wrist  ( scaphoid ,  lunate ,  triquetral ,  pisiform ,  trapezium ,  trapezoid ,  capitate ,  hamate )  .
an abnormality of the placenta  ( the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall )  or of the umbilical cord  ( the cord that connects the fetus to the placenta )  .
decreased length of the umbilical cord .
an abnormality of the fetus or the birth of the fetus ,  excluding structural abnormalities .
an abnormal structure of the tip  ( end )  of a finger .
ossification of carpal bones occurs later than age - adjusted norms .
chronic loss of joint motion in an interphalangeal joint of a finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
a chronic loss of wrist joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevent normal movement of the joints of the wrist .
a seizure is an intermittent abnormality of nervous system physiology characterised by a transient occurrence of signs and / or symptoms due to abnormal excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain .
inflammation of the meninges .
structural abnormality affecting one or more of the cranial nerves ,  which emerge directly from the brain stem .
any structural abnormality of the cerebellum .
underdevelopment of the cerebellum .
hemorrhage into the parenchyma of the brain .
a localized defect in the bone of the skull resulting from abnormal embryological development .
an abnormal structure or form of the joints ,  i .e . ,  one or more of the articulations where two bones join .
inflammation of a joint .
a flexion contracture is a bent  ( flexed )  joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
a reduction in the freedom of movement of one or more joints .
the ability of a joint to move beyond its normal range of motion .
an abnormality of the hip joint .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the hip .
an abnormality of the liver .
simultaneous enlargement of the liver and spleen .
an anomaly of the musculature of foot .
a structural abnormality of the abdomen  ( 'belly' )  ,  that is ,  the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax .
absence or underdevelopment of the musculature .
absence or underdevelopment of the muscles of the shoulder .
absence or underdevelopment of the musculature of the upper limbs .
absence or underdevelopment of the muscles of the upper arm .
increased density of the bony tissue of the scapula .
underdevelopment of one or more carpal bones .
failure to thrive  ( ftt )  refers to a child whose physical growth is substantially below the norm .
a deficiency or slowing down of growth pre -  and postnatally .
accumulation of substantial excess body fat .
accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity .
a morphological anomaly of the rib cage .
excessive postnatal growth which may comprise increased weight ,  increased length ,  and / or increased head circumference .
increased size of the teeth ,  which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter  ( width )  more than 2 sd above mean for age .
an abnormality of the integument ,  which consists of the skin and the superficial fascia .
an abnormality of the hair .
an abnormality of the larynx .
any abnormality of the cardiovascular system .
any structural anomaly of the heart .
a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart .
atrial septal defect  ( asd )  is a congenital abnormality of the interatrial septum that enables blood flow between the left and right atria via the interatrial septum .
a structural anomaly of the muscle layer of the heart wall .
increased size of the heart .
in this case the right ventricle is more muscular than normal ,  causing a characteristic boot - shaped  ( coeur - en - sabot )  appearance as seen on anterior -  posterior chest x - rays .
an anomaly of the intra - atrial or intraventricular septum .
an abnormality of the aorta .
an abnormality of the pericardium ,  i .e . ,  of the fluid filled sac that surrounds the heart and the proximal ends of the aorta ,  vena cava ,  and the pulmonary artery .
inflammation of the sac - like covering around the heart  ( pericardium )  .
an abnormality of the right ventricle of the heart .
any structural abnormality of the left ventricle of the heart .
enlargement or increased size of the heart left ventricle .
an abnormality of a cardiac ventricle .
enlargement of the cardiac ventricular muscle tissue with increase in the width of the wall of the ventricle and loss of elasticity .
an abnormality of the pancreas .
the presence of inflammation in the pancreas .
a cyst of the pancreas that possess a lining of mucous epithelium .
a structural anomaly of the nasopharynx .
an abnormality of the spleen .
abnormal increased size of the spleen .
absence  ( aplasia )  of the spleen .
an abnormality of the skeleton of foot .
a measured foot length that is more than 2 sd below the mean for a newborn of 27  -  41 weeks gestation ,  or foot that is less than the 3rd centile for individuals from birth to 16 years of age  ( objective )  .
an anomaly of a toe .
accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity during the fetal period .
lateral deviation of the great toe  ( i .e . ,  in the direction of the little toe )  .
reduction inexisting body weight .
a kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary toe or toes .
polydactyly of the foot most commonly refers to the presence of six toes on one foot .
a toe that appears disproportionately short compared to the foot .
abnormalities of the metatarsal bones  ( i .e .
increased back to front length of the foot .
camptodactyly is a painless flexion contracture of the proximal interphalangeal  ( pip )  joint that is usually gradually progressive .
duplication of all or part of the first ray .
this term applies for all abnormalities of the big toe ,  also called hallux .
increased length of the big toe .
a developmental defect resulting in the presence of fewer than the normal number of toes .
an abnormality of the tarsus are the cluster of seven bones in the foot between the tibia and fibula and the metatarsus ,  including the calcaneus  ( heel )  bone and the talus  ( ankle )  bone .
short distance from the end of the toe to the most distal interphalangeal crease or distal interphalangeal joint flexion point ,  i .e . ,  abnormally short distal phalanx of toe .
an abnormality of the hematopoietic system .
an abnormal susceptibility to bleeding ,  often referred to as a bleeding diathesis .
the formation of a blood clot inside a blood vessel that subsequently travels through the blood stream from the site where it formed to another location in the body ,  generally leading to vascular occlusion at the distant site .
abnormal acid accumulation or depletion of base .
a decreased concentration of glucose in the blood .
elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation .
presence of elevated levels of ketone bodies in the body .
depletion of acid or accumulation base in the body fluids .
glucose intolerance  ( gi )  can be defined as dysglycemia that comprises both prediabetes and diabetes .
obesity located preferentially in the trunk of the body as opposed to the extremities .
absence or underdevelopment of the metatarsal bones .
venous or arterial thrombosis  ( formation of blood clots )  of spontaneous nature and which cannot be fully explained by acquired risk  ( e .g .
an increased concentration of ammonia in the blood .
absence or hypoplasia of toes .
excretion of non - amino organic acids in urine .
an abnormal morphology  ( form )  of the face or its components .
a structural abnormality of the central nervous system .
an abnormality of the viscera of the abdomen .
abnormally increased frequency of loose or watery bowel movements .
impaired ability to absorb one or more nutrients from the intestine .
a structural abnormality of the esophagus .
an abnormaltiy of the rectum ,  the final segment of the large intestine that stores solid waste until it passes through the anus .
inflammation ,  or an inflammatory state in the large intestine .
any structural abnormality of the telencephalon ,  which is also known as the cerebrum .
an abnormality of the respiratory system ,  which include the airways ,  lungs ,  and the respiratory muscles .
an abnormality of the upper respiratory tract .
any structural anomaly of the lung .
inflammation of any part of the lung parenchyma .
pulmonary hypertension is defined mean pulmonary artery pressure of 25mmhg or more and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 15mmhg or less when measured by right heart catheterisation at rest and in a supine position .
an abnormality of the pulmonary pleura ,  the thin ,  transparent membrane which covers the lungs and lines the inside of the chest walls .
abnormality of the cerebral ventricles .
an increase in size of the ventricular system of the brain .
an abnormality of the spinal cord  ( myelon )  .
an abnormally decreased phosphate concentration in the blood .
an abnormally increased potassium concentration in the blood .
an elevated concentration of glycine in the blood .
an abnormal increase in the level of triglycerides in the blood .
an increased concentration of nitrogen compounds in the blood .
an increased concentration of lysine in the blood .
hemorrhage occurring within the skull .
a cyst occurring within the choroid plexus within a cerebral ventricle .
an embolus  ( that is ,  an abnormal particle circulating in the blood )  located in the pulmonary artery and thereby blocking blood circulation to the lung .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the facial region .
hemorrhage affecting the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormally increased size of the liver .
an abnormality of the intestine .
an abnormality of the small intestine .
meckel's diverticulum is a congenital diverticulum located in the distal ileum .
an abnormality of the duodenum ,  i .e . ,  the first section of the small intestine .
the passage of blackish ,  tarry feces associated with gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
any abnormality of the large intestine .
the presence of multiple diverticula of the colon .
an abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
an anomaly of the brainstem .
underdevelopment of the brainstem .
an abnormality of the midbrain ,  which has as its parts the tectum ,  cerebral peduncle ,  midbrain tegmentum and cerebral aqueduct .
reduced size of the cerebral cortex .
the presence of calcium deposition within brain structures .
an abnormality of the cerebral cortex .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex .
absence of facial hair .
developmental dysplasia of the hair .
greater than normal amounts of fat in the feces .
an abnormality of the stomach .
colitis refers to an inflammation of the colon and is often used to describe an inflammation of the large intestine  ( colon ,  cecum and rectum )  .
bleeding from the intestines .
an abnormality of the peritoneum .
inflammation of the peritoneum .
hypoplasia of the pancreas .
an abnormality of the vasculature .
low blood pressure ,  vascular hypotension .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of an atery ,  vein or the heart .
an anomaly of vein .
abnormality of the absorption of fat from the gastrointestinal tract .
sclerosis  ( hardening )  of the arteries with increased thickness of the wall of arteries as well as increased stiffness and a loss of elasticity .
an abnormality of the bony pelvic girdle ,  which is a ring of bones connecting the vertebral column to the femurs .
the presence of an abnormal shape of the calvaria  ( skullcap )  ,  that is ,  of that part of the skull that is made up of the superior portions of the frontal bone ,  occipital bone ,  and parietal bones and covers the cranial cavity that contains the brain .
a general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues .
an organ or organ - system abnormality that consists of uncontrolled autonomous cell - proliferation which can occur in any part of the body as a benign or malignant neoplasm  ( tumour )  .
an abnormal narrowing of the foramen magnum .
abnormality of the calvaria ,  which is the roof of the skull formed by the frontal bone ,  parietal bones ,  and occipital bone .
an abnormality of the base of the skull ,  which forms the floor of the cranial cavity and separates the brain from other facial structures .
increased bone density of the skull base without significant changes in bony contour .
any abnormality of the foramen magnum .
an abnormal increase in the size of the foramen magnum .
an abnormality of the process of ossification of the skull .
an abnormality of the immune system .
underdevelopment of the lymph nodes .
a lymph node abnormality .
osteomyelitis is an inflammatory process accompanied by bone destruction and caused by an infecting microorganism .
any morphological abnormality of cartilage .
a structural anomaly of the trachea .
calcification  ( abnormal deposits of calcium )  in the tracheal tissues .
any abnormality of bones of the arms or legs .
an abnormality of the leg .
an abnormality of the arm .
any anomaly of the structure of the femur .
inflammation of a lymph node .
an abnormality of the ilium ,  the largest and uppermost bone of the pelvis .
an abnormally decreased potassium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased sodium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally increased phosphate concentration in the blood .
an abnormality of the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
an abnormal functionality of the thyroid gland .
decreased height of the intervertebral disk .
an abnormality of the lower arm .
absence or underdevelopment of tissue in the central nervous system .
an abnormality of the calf ,  i .e .
the presence of abnormally small extremities .
a chronic loss of elbow joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevent normal movement of the joints of the elbow .
abnormality originating in one or more muscles ,  i .e . ,  of the set of muscles of body .
abnormality of the wrist ,  the structure connecting the hand and the forearm .
one or more abnormally short long bone .
an elevation in bone density in one or more diaphyses .
increase in size of one or more joints .
an abnormality of the shoulder ,  which is defined as the structures surrounding the shoulder joint where the humerus attaches to the scapula .
chronic reduction in active and passive mobility of the shoulder joint due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevents normal movement .
abnormal increase in size of one or more metaphyses .
an abnormality of the humerus  ( i .e . ,  upper arm bone )  .
an abnormally increased calcium concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of glucose in the blood .
an increased concentration of glucose in the urine .
an elevated lipid concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
underdevelopment of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
an abnormal shortening of the femur .
any deviation from the normal concentration of cholesterol in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of glycine in the urine .
an increased excretion of phosphates in the urine .
an abnormality of the composition of urine or the levels of its components .
abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of a monoatomic ion .
the presence of an abnormal decrease or increase of one or more amino acids in the blood circulation .
an abnormal concentration of a hormone in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a lipid in the blood circulation .
a contrqacture  ( chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin )  that prevent normal movement of one or more joints of the limbs .
an increased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the urine .
an decreased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
increased excretion of oxalates in the urine .
an abnormality of the acetabulum ,  i .e . ,  the acetabular part of hip bone ,  which together with the head of the femur forms the hip joint .
underdevelopment of the breast .
distance from nasion to subnasale more than two standard deviations above the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently increased length from the nasal root to the nasal base .
distance from nasion to subnasale more than two standard deviations below the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently decreased length from the nasal root to the nasal tip .
pathological deposition of calcium salts in one or more arteries .
an increased concentration of dicarboxylic acid in the urine .
decreased concentration of methylcobalamin .methylcobalamin is a form of vitamin b12 .
an abnormally increased sodium concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of tyrosine in the blood .
a decreased concentration of carnitine in the blood .
an increased concentration of methionine in the blood .
underdevelopment of part or all of the external reproductive organs .
aplasia of the vagina .
a increased concentration of arginine in the urine .
abnormal increased size of the viscera of the abdomen .
an abnormality of the hip bone .
underdeveloped acetabulae .
a functional anomaly of mitochondria .
an increased concentration of lysine in the urine .
abnormal morphology of vertebral body .
any abnormality of the cervical vertebral column .
any anomaly in the composite material or the layered arrangement of the bony skeleton .
an abnormality of the process of endochondral ossification ,  which is a type of replacement ossification in which bone tissue replaces cartilage .
an increased concentration of an amino acid in the urine .
an abnormality of the femoral neck  ( which is the process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft )  .
an abnormality of the femoral head .
an abnormal enlargement of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
increased concentration of long - chain fatty acids in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of one or more of the vertebrae .
a kind of short stature in which different regions of the body are shortened to differing extents .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs .
a reduction in methionine synthase activity .
an increased concentration of ornithine in the urine .
any abnormality of the soft tissues ,  including both connective tissue  ( tendons ,  ligaments ,  fascia ,  fibrous tissues ,  and fat )  .
a decreased concentration of citrulline in the blood .
an abnormally increased sodium concentration in the cytosol .
increased concentration of trimethylamine in the urine .
loss  ( disappearance )  of previously present subcutaneous fat tissue in arm or leg .
a decreased concentration of methionine in the blood .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger .
hypertrophy  ( increase in size )  of muscle cells  ( as opposed to hyperplasia ,  which refers to an increase in the number of muscle cells )  .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the thighs .
a reduced amount of fat tissue in the lowest layer of the integument .
congenital underdevelopment of lymph vessels .
a nevus is a type of hamartoma that is a circumscribed stable malformation of the skin .
developmental hypoplasia  ( shortening )  of middle phalanx of toe .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more long bones of the upper limbs .
an elevation in bone density in one or more diaphyses of the arms .
clefting affecting the humerus .
an anomaly of the humeral epiphysis .
lack of formation of bone in the epiphysis of the humerus .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the humeral epiphysis .
an anomaly of the humeral diaphysis .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more long bones that are part of the elbow .
absence of one or more forearm bones associated with congenital failure of development .
the total absence of the hand ,  with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna .
ossification of hand bones is less advanced than would be expected according to age - adjusted norms .
osteosclerosis affecting one or more bones of the hand .
deviated fingers is a term that should be used if one or more fingers of the hand are deviated from their normal position ,  either to the radial or ulnar side .
significant increase in the length and girth of most or all of a digit compared to its contralateral digit  ( if unaffected )  or compared to what would be expected for age / body build .
this term groups together three conditions that presumably represent different degrees of severity of a midline defect of the nose or nasal tip .
an abnormality affecting one or both 5th fingers .
abnormality of the phalanges of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
hypoplastic / small middle phalanx of the fifth finger .
abnormality of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the fifth finger .
abnormality of the distal phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
hypoplastic / small distal phalanx of the fifth finger .
the presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones .
increased size of carpal bones .
an abnormality of the gastric mucous membrane .
an abnormality of the biliary system .
the presence of any abnormality affecting the abdominal wall .
any abnormality of the skeletal muscle cell .
an abnormality of the endocardium .
thickening of the left ventricle wall with congenital onset .
a height below that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
an abnormal increase or decrease of weight or an abnormal distribution of mass in the body .
abnormally increased body weight .
abnormally low body weight .
severe weight loss ,  wasting of muscle ,  loss of appetite ,  and general debility related to a chronic disease .
any structural anomaly of the vitreous body .
an abnormality of the anterior segment of the eyeball  ( which comprises the structures in front of the vitreous humour: the cornea ,  iris ,  ciliary body ,  and lens )  .
an increase in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull .
a reduction in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull .
abnormality of an amino acid metabolic process .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a aromatic amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a sulfur amino acid in the blood circulation .
this term applies to all changes in bone mineral density which  ( depending on severity )  can be seen on x - rays as a change in density and or structure of the bone .
a reduction of bone mineral density ,  that is ,  of the amount of matter per cubic centimeter of bones .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a purine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal circulation of leucine in the blood circulation .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a fatty acid in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of the balance or maintenance of the balance of acids and bases in bodily fluids ,  resulting in an abnormal ph .
any deviation from the normal concentration of calcium in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a nitrogen compound in the blood circulation .
abnormally elevated concentration of a purine compound .
abnormally reduced concentration of a purine compound .
an abnormality of temperature homeostasis .
abnormality of the anal canal .
underdevelopment of the left side of the heart .
inflammation of the alimentary part of the gastrointestinal system .
a colon of abnormally small caliber .
an abnormality of the pylorus .
an abnormality of the pulmonary artery .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of arterial thrombosis .
an abnormality of the cheek -  one of two bilateral soft tissue facial structures in the region of the face inferior to the eyes and between the nose and the ear .
excessive growth of the bones of cranium ,  i .e . ,  of the skull .
an abnormality of the middle - ear ossicles  ( three small bones called malleus ,  incus ,  and stapes )  that are contained within the middle ear and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid - filled labyrinth  ( cochlea )  .
the progressive development of an abnormally large skull .
excessive growth of the calvaria .
excessive growth of the craniofacial bones .
hyperplasia of the islets of langerhans ,  i .e . ,  of the regions of the pancreas that contain its endocrine cells .
increased bone density affecting the bones of the spine  ( vertebral column )  .
increased top to bottom height of vertebral bodies .
a lack of ossification of the vertebral bodies .
reduced size of cervical vertebrae .
underdevelopment of one or more muscles innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
short  ( hypoplastic )  fifth metatarsal bone .
an abnormality of the renal collecting system .
underdevelopment or reduced size of the heart right ventricle ,  often due to a reduced number of cells .
underdevelopment of the small intestine .
an abnormally elevated blood pressure in the circulation of the pulmonary artery .
an increased concentration of l - phenylalanine in the blood .
abnormal calcification of the vasculature .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of venous thrombosis .
a congenital defect with aplasia  ( absence )  of one of the right or left pulmonary artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the thoracic aorta .
calcification ,  that is ,  pathological deposition of calcium salts in the aorta .
underdevelopment of the pulmonary artery .
abnormally increased density of metaphyseal bone .
absence or underdevelopment of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
developmental hypoplasia  ( shortening )  of all phalanges of the foot .
ossification affecting the external ear cartilage .
an abnormality of the intervertebral disk .
any structural abnormality of a cardiac atrium .
underdeveloped ,  small left heart atrium
absence of the abdominal musculature .
hypertrophy of the stomach .
underdevelopment of the colon .
the presence of abnormal calcium deposition lesions in the pancreas .
the presence of multiple diverticula of the intestine .
a collection of pus in the area of the rectum .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the pancreas .
the presence of a hypoplastic gallbladder .
developmental hypoplasia of the intestine .
underdevelopment of the abdominal musculature .
hemorrhage occurring within a joint .
the presence of inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane .
an abnormality of the gallbladder .
a discrete abnormal tissue mass that protrudes into the lumen of the intestine and is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk ,  pedunculus ,  or a broad base .
abnormality of the nostril .
formation of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  inside a cerebral vein ,  causing the obstruction of blood flow .
underdevelopment of the urinary bladder .
any structural abnormality of the carotid arteries ,  including the common carotid artery and its' arterial branches .
an abnormality of the structure of the veins that return deoxygenated blood from the body into the heart ,  i .e . ,  the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava .
an increased density in the cranial sutures following obliteration .
an increase in bone density affecting the calvaria  ( roof of the skull )  .
normally ,  the posterior and lateral fontanelles are obliterated by about six months after birth ,  the anterior fontanelle closes by about the middle of the second year .
abnormally increased density of craniofacial bone tissue .
abnormal reduction in ossification of the calvaria  ( roof of the skull consisting of the frontal bone ,  parietal bones ,  temporal bones ,  and occipital bone )  .
progressively increasing bone density of the skull base without significant changes in bony contour .
head circumference which falls below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender because of insufficient head growth after birth .
a fontanelle that is small for age .
an anomaly of the form or number of cells in the bone marrow .
a reduction in the count of nephrons per kidney .
a duplication of the renal pelvis .
absence or underdevelopment of the femur .
the ability of the interphalangeal joints to move beyond their normal range of motion .
absent ossification of the calvaria  ( vault of the skull )  .
the presence of abnormal calcium deposition of the intervertebral disk .
an increase in bone density affecting the basicranium  ( base of the skull )  .
underdevelopment of both forearm bones ,  the ulna and the radius ,  resulting in a shortened forearm .
underdevelopment of the humerus .
aplasia  ( absence )  of the distal phalanges .
the presence of more than 12 rib pairs .
short  ( hypoplastic )  middle phalanx of finger ,  affecting one or more fingers .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  toe joints that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
a lack of bone mineralization of one or more body of cervical vertebra .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the metacarpal bones .
irregularly shaped metacarpal bones of varying degree .
the presence of more than the normal number of metacarpal bones .
abnormalities affecting the phalanx of finger .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the hand .
any structural anomaly of the hand .
any abnormality of the epiphyses of the phalanges or metacarpal bones .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the hand .
an anomaly of epiphysis ,  which is the expanded articular end of a long bone that developes from a secondary ossification center ,  and which during the period of growth is either entirely cartilaginous or is separated from the shaft by a cartilaginous disk .
a decreased concentration of arginine in the blood .
developmental hypoplasia of the thyroid gland .
reduced amount of adipose tissue in the region of the neck .
delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more phalanx .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more long bones .
increased length of the proximal phalanx of finger .
abnormally large size of the metaphyseal epiphyses .
increased length of multiple or a single phalanx of finger .
bending or curvature of a thumb towards the ulnar side  ( towards the ring finger )  .
a small / hypoplastic or absent / aplastic 5th finger .
small / hypoplastic or absent / aplastic fingers .
reduced size of the placenta .
increased size of the placenta .
underdevelopment of the spleen .
short dental root .
shortening of the legs related to developmental hypoplasia of the bones of the leg .
an abnormal increase in the bone density of the long bones .
an anomaly of the metaphysis of the proximal femur  ( close to the hip )  .
an abnormal enlargement of the distal epiphysis of the femur .
a chronic loss of ankle joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevent normal movement of the joints of the ankle .
an abnormality of the islet of langerhans ,  i .e . ,  of the regions of the pancreas that contain its endocrine cells .
an abnormality of the morphology of the tooth .
the presence of an altered number of of teeth .
an abnormality of the dental root .
an anomaly of the femoral metaphysis .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the lower limbs .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the upper limbs .
an anomaly of a growth plate of a femur .
an anomaly of one or more epiphyses of one or both legs .
absence or underdevelopment of the carpal bones .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of one or more forearm bones .
an anomaly of one or more epiphyses of a limb .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the humerus .
an abnormality of the pulmonary lymphatic chain .
the presence of abnormal calcium deposition in the liver .
the presence of reduced numbers of intrahepatic bile duct than normal .
lack of development of the glenoid fossa ,  also known as the glenoid cavity ,  which is the articular surface of the scapula that articulates with the head of the humerus .
underdevelopment of the glenoid fossa ,  which is the cavity in the lateral part of the scapula which articulates with the head of the humerus .
a localized outpouching of ventricular cavity that is generally associated with dyskinesia and paradoxical expansion during systole .
an abnormality of the hepatic vasculature .
underdevelopment of the cerebrum .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the cortex of frontal lobe and the cortex of parietal lobe .
the presence of calcium deposition in the choroid plexus .
a morphological abnormality of the metencephalon .
the presence of dysplasia  ( abnormal growth or development )  of the cerebellum .
agenesis of the midbrain .
underdevelopment of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum .
any structural anomaly of the limbic system ,  a set of midline structures surrounding the brainstem of the mammalian brain ,  originally described anatomically ,  e .g . ,  hippocampal formation ,  amygdala ,  hypothalamus ,  cingulate cortex .
an abnormality of the pons .
an abnormality of the choroid plexus ,  which is the area in the cerebral ventricles in which cerebrospinal fluid is produced by modified ependymal cells .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the gastrointestinal tract .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the genitourinary system .
underdevelopment of the sweat glands .
lack of subcutaneous adipose tissue .
the presence of fewer than normal sweat glands .
congenital underdevelopment of the iris .
abnormal development  ( dysgenesis )  of the anterior segment of the eye globe .
an abnormal reduction in the amount of pigmentation of the iris .
abnormal development of the choroid and retina .
underdevelopment of the lacrimal gland .
abnormally big lacrimal glands .
underdevelopment of the ciliary body .
deposition of calcium salts in the retina .
underdevelopment of the lacrimal puncta .
reduced pigmentation of the fundus ,  typically generalised .
bleeding within the vitreous compartment of the eye .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the retina .
underdevelopment of the stroma of iris .
congenital malformation of the lacrimal duct associated with incomplete development of the bony nasolacrimal canal or craniofacial anomalies .
abnormal pigmentation of the iris .
absence or underdevelopment of the lacrimal gland .
a structural abnormality of retinal vasculature .
absence or underdevelopment of the iris .
absence or underdevelopment of the uvea ,  the pigmented middle layer of the eye consisting of the iris and ciliary body together with the choroid .
absence or underdevelopment of the anterior segment of the eye .
absence or underdevelopment of the lens .
the presence of a fifth metatarsal bone that has not undergone ossification at an age when ossification is usually visible .
an anomaly of the fifth metatarsal bone .
delayed maturation and calcification of any of the tarsal bones ,  seven bones of the foot comprising the calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  and the cuneiform bones .
the congenital absence of the thyroid gland .
abnormal development of the adrenal gland .
enlargement of the adrenal gland .
developmental hypoplasia of the adrenal medulla .
an abnormality of the mitochondria in muscle tissue .
any structural anomaly of the mitochondria .
an increased urine level of any amino acid carrying two amino groups  ( asparagine ,  glutamine and lysine ,  cystine ,  ornithine )  .
an increased concentration of a branched chain amino acid in the blood .
absence or underdevelopment of the big toe .
absence or underdevelopment of the tarsal bones .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of any of the tarsal bones ,  seven bones of the foot comprising the calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  and the cuneiform bones .
any abnormal process of ossification of the metatarsal bones ,  which normally are each ossified from two centers: one for the body ,  and one for the head  ( metatarsal ii , iii , iv ,  and v )  and one for the body and one for the base  ( metatarsal i )  .
small ,  underdeveloped vertebral bodies .
the presence of punctiform calcification of the bone of the vertebral bodies .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the vertebral column .
excessive growth of the bones of the vertebral bodies .
a developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies .
dysplasia of the cervical vertebral column .
decreased ossification of the cervical vertebral bodies ,  i .e . ,  of the cervical vertebrae set .
underdevelopment of the external ear .
the presence of a malformed cochlea .
a malformation of the auricle of the ear .
developmental hypoplasia of the cochlea .
an abnormality of the morphology or structure of the middle ear .
an abnormality of the stapes ,  a stirrup - shaped ossicle in the middle ear .
absence of sex glands  ( gonads are the organs that produce gametes ;  testis in males and ovary in females )  .
abnormal enlargement of the urinary bladder .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the fallopian tube .
hypertrophy of the clitoris .
absence or underdevelopment of the kidney .
absence or developmental hypoplasia of the uterus .
developmental hypoplasia of the fallopian tube .
deposition of calcium salts in gonadal tissue .
the presence of a diverticulum  ( sac or pouch )  in the wall of the urethra .
developmental hypoplasia of the ovary .
developmental hypoplasia of the vagina .
reduced volume of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
ossification affecting the set of cartilages of larynx .
underdevelopment of the larynx .
presence of a gap in the posterior laryngotracheal wall with a continuity between the larynx and the esopahagus .
a malformation of the laryngeal cartilage .
calcification  ( abnormal deposits of calcium )  in the laryngeal tissues .
the presence of aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the ear .
the presence of aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of all or part of the external ear .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of all or part of the middle ear .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the inner ear .
an abnormality of the prostate .
any structural abnormality of the renal artery .
a decreased ability to move the femur at the hip joint associated with a decreased range of motion of the hip .
underdevelopment of the femoral head .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the acetabular part of hip bone .
lack of ossification of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
developmental delay of ossification of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
delayed ossification of the femoral head .
there is normally one ossification center in the head of the femur .
underdevelopment of the bony pelvis .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short limbs but an average - sized trunk .
a loss of adipose tissue .
underdevelopment of muscles of the shoulder .
underdevelopment of the muscuklature of the calf .
muscle hypertrophy primarily affecting the legs .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the calf muscles .
underdevelopment of muscles of the neck .
an abnormal increase in the amount of intramuscular fat tissue .
congenital lack ,  i .e . ,  aplasia of the diaphragm .
an abnormal increase in the amount of intraabdominal fat tissue .
loss  ( reduction of previously present )  of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the region of the trunk .
the presence of an abnormally increased amount of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the trunk of the body .
underdevelopment of the musculature .
underdevelopment of muscles of the arm .
the presence of an abnormally increased amount of connective tissue .
an abnormal accumulation of lipids in skeletal muscle .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of any bone of the bony pelvis .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of one or more components of the skeleton .
an abnormality of the axial skeleton ,  which comprises the skull ,  the vertebral column ,  the ribs and the sternum .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of bones of the axial skeleton .
an abnormality of adipose tissue ,  which is loose connective tissue composed of adipocytes .
an increase in adipose tissue mass by hyperplastic growth  ( increase in the number of adipocytes )  or by hypertrophic growth  ( increase in the size of adipocytes occurring primarily by lipid accumulation within the cell )  .
a disease or lesion affecting the muscles of the thorax .
this term applies to all changes in bone mineral density of the tarsal bones ,  which  ( depending on severity )  can be seen on x - rays as a change in density and or structure of the bone .
any structural anomaly of a cerebral artery .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the little finger of the hand .
abnormality of the proximal phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the proximal ,  middle ,  and distal phalanges of the 5th finger .
abnormality of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the fifth finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the little finger of the hand .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
absence or underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the middle phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the metacarpals .
displacement of the 5th finger from its normal position .
displacement of the 5th finger towards the ulnar side .
triangular shaped middle phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
chronic loss of joint motion in the 5th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the distal interphalangeal joint of the 5th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
proximal interphalangeal  ( pip )  flexion deformity of the little finger .
chronic loss of joint motion of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the 5th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
a secondary ossification center in the distal phalanx of the fifth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
absence or underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the proximal phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
a pseudoepiphysis is a secondary ossification center distinct from the normal epiphysis .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses located at the distal end of the metacarpals in respect to age - dependent norms .
absence of the epiphyses of the metacarpal bones ,  which are normally located at the distal ends of the metacarpals .
abnormality of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the fifth finger .
a secondary ossification center in the proximal phalanx of the fifth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
a secondary ossification center in the middle phalanx of the fifth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the little finger of the hand .
hypoplastic / small proximal phalanx of the fifth finger .
triangular shaped proximal phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the fifth finger ,  also known as the little finger .
triangular shaped distal phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
aplasia / hypoplasia of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
triangular shaped phalanges of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
aplasia of one or more fingers .
abnormally short finger associated with developmental hypoplasia .
absence of one or more epiphyses of the 5th finger .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
a secondary ossification center in the fifth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the 5th finger of the hand .
bending or curvature of a finger toward the ulnar side  ( i .e . ,  away from the thumb )  .
contractures of one ore more joints of the hands meaning chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
displacement of the hand or of fingers of the hand from their normal position .
divergence of the longitudinal axis of the hand at the wrist in a posterior  ( ulnar )  direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the little finger )  .
underdevelopment of the pharynx .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the proximal ,  and distal phalanges of the thumb and / or the 1st metacarpal .
chronic loss of joint motion in the thumb due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
hypoplastic / small or absent thumb .
a structural anomaly of one or more phalanges of the thumb .
displacement of the thumb from its normal position .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
partail or complete duplication of the first metacarpal bone .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
complete or partial duplication of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
complete or partial duplication of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
this term applies if the proximal phalanx of the thumb is partially duplicated .
complete duplication of the first metacarpal bone .
partial duplication of the first metacarpal bone .
any anomaly of the distal phalanx of thumb .
an anomaly of the shape or form of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
chronic loss of joint motion of the carpometacarpal joint of the thumb due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the interphalangeal joint of the thumb due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
this term applies if the proximal phalanx of the thumb is either small / hypoplastic or absent .
hypoplastic  ( short )  proximal phalanx of the thumb .
hypoplastic  ( short )  distal phalanx of the thumb .
hypoplastic  ( short )  thumb phalanx .
abnormality of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
this term applies if the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the thumb ,  which is located at the proximal end of the phalanx ,  does not appear in concordance with gender and age dependant norms as seen on x - rays .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
a pseudoepiphysis  ( which is a secondary ossification center distinct from the normal epiphysis )  of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the thumb of the hand .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
a pseudoepiphysis  ( which is a secondary ossification center distinct from the normal epiphysis )  of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb of the hand .
absence of one or more epiphyses of the thumb .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
a pseudoepiphysis  ( which is a secondary ossification center distinct from the normal epiphysis )  of one or more phalanges of the thumb .
abnormally small size of one or more of the epiphyses of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
chronic loss of joint motion in one or more distal interphalangeal joints of the fingers .
an abnormality of the epididymis .
nephrosclerosis refers to thickening or scarring  (  \ "sclerosis \ " )  resulting from damage to the renal arterioles ,  also referred to as arteriosclerosis of the kidney arteries .
an abnormality of the spinal dura mater ,  which is the outermost of the three layers of the meninges surrounding the spinal cord .
small or missing phalangeal bones of the fingers of the hand .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the thumb .
absence or underdevelopment involving the musculature of the thigh .
the presence of two or more accessory spleens .
short  ( hypoplastic )  phalanx of finger ,  affecting one or more phalanges .
the presence of a reduced number of teeth as in hypodontia or as in anodontia .
a structural abnormality of a diaphysis of the arm .
an anomaly of one or more metaphyses of the arms .
an anomaly of the joint that connects the upper and the lower arm .
peromelia affecting only the upper limbs .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the extremities .
leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity .
peromelia affecting only the lower limbs .
forearm shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the forearm .
arm shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the upper extremity .
limb shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the extremities .
the distal parts of the limbs are missing leading to a stump formation .
any anomaly of distal phalanx of finger .
an anomaly of middle phalanx of finger .
absence or underdevelopment of the distal phalanges .
short distance from the end of the finger to the most distal interphalangeal crease or the distal interphalangeal joint flexion point .
this term applies if one or more of the distal phalanges of the hand are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
an abnormality of hair pigmentation  ( color )  .
abnormally increased hair growth with a localized distribution .
complete absence of any auricular structures .
abnormality of the temporal bone of the skull ,  which is situated at the sides and base of the skull roughly underlying the region of the face known as the temple .
underdevelopment or absence of the nose or parts thereof .
the presence of only a single nostril .
the presence of more than two nostrils .
excess facial hair .
lack or loss of the soft tissues between the zygomata and mandible .
complete or partial duplication of the phalanges of the thumb .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the thumb .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the thumb .
this term applies if one or more of the phalanges of the 5th finger are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of little finger .
partial or complete duplication of the fifth middle phalanx of hand .
partial or complete duplication of the fifth proximal phalanx of hand .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of little finger .
complete duplication of the fifth middle phalanx of hand .
complete duplication of the fifth proximal phalanx of hand .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of little finger ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
partial duplication of the fifth middle phalanx of hand ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
partial or complete duplication of the fifth proximal phalanx of hand ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
this term applies if one or more of the phalanges of the hand are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the hand .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the hand .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the proximal phalanges of the hand .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the distal phalanges of the hand .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the middle phalanges of the hand .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the proximal phalanges of the hand .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the distal phalanges of the hand .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the middle phalanges of the hand .
this term applies if one or more of the proximal phalanges of the hand are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
this term applies if one or more of the middle phalanges of the hand are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a structural anomaly of the first metacarpal .
any abnormality of the fifth metacarpal bone .
in contrast to the metacarpals 2 - 5 ,  the first metacarpal is embryologically of phalangeal origin and as such equivalent to the proximal phalanges of the digits 2 - 5  ( whereas the proximal phalanx of the thumb is equivalent to the middle phalanges of the other digits )  .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the 1st metacarpal with respect to age - dependent norms .
the epiphysis of the first metacarpal is localized at the proximal end of the metacarpal bone although an accessory epiphysis may be located at the distal end of the metacarpal .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis of the 1st metacarpal with respect to age - dependent norms .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the 1st metacarpal .
a developmental defect characterized by reduced length of the first metacarpal  ( long bone )  of the hand .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the 5th metacarpal .
short fifth metacarpal bone .
developmental defect associated with absence of one or more metacarpal bones .
diminished length of one or more metacarpal bones in relation to the others of the same hand or to the contralateral metacarpal .
displacement of the big toe from its normal position .
an abnormal shape or form of the proximal phalanx of the big toe .
an anomaly of the first metatarsal bone .
partial or complete duplication of one or more phalanx of big toe .
absence or underdevelopment of the first metatarsal bone .
a developmental defect consisting in the duplication of the first metatarsal bone .
partial or complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of big toe .
complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of big toe .
partial duplication of the proximal phalanx of big toe .
a developmental defect consisting in the complete duplication of the first metatarsal bone .
a developmental defect consisting in the duplication of part of the first metatarsal bone .
complete duplication of one or more phalanx of big toe .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the distal phalanx of big toe .
short first metatarsal bone .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the proximal phalanx of big toe .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the big toe .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of a phalanx of big toe .
failure to form  ( agenesis )  of one or more epiphyses of the big toe .
in contrast to the metatarsals 2 - 5 ,  the first metatarsal is embryologically of phalangeal origin and as such equivalent to the proximal phalanges of the digits 2 - 5 ,  whereas the proximal phalanx of the big toe is equivalent to the middle phalanges of the other digits .
in contrast to the metatarsals 2 - 5 ,  the first metatarsal is embryologically of phalangeal origin and as such equivalent to the proximal phalanges of the digits 2 - 5 ,  whereas the proximal phalanx of the big toe is equivalent to the middle phalanges of the other digits .
failure to form  ( agenesis )  of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the hallux .
failure to form  ( agenesis )  of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the hallux .
failure to form  ( agenesis )  of the epiphysis of the 1st metatarsal .
absence of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the toes .
partial / complete duplication of one or more phalanx of toe .
a morphological anomaly of one or more proximal phalanges of one or more toes .
absence or underdevelopment of the distal phalanges of the toes .
a partial or complete duplication of one or more distal phalanx of toe .
partial or complete duplication of a middle phalanx of toe .
absence  ( agenesis )  or underdevelopment of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the toes .
partial / complete duplication of a proximal phalanx of toe .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  joints of the first  ( big )  toe that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
chronic loss of joint motion in the tarsometatarsal joint of the hallux due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
the interphalangeal joint of the big toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the joint between the first metatarsal and the proximal phalanx of the first  ( big )  toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
any abnormality of the epiphysis of the fifth metacarpal bone .
absence of one or more epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers with respect to age - dependent norms .
a secondary ossification center in the phalanges of the hand that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers with respect to age - dependent norms .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers of the hand .
congenital hypoplasia of one or more proximal phalanx of finger .
any anomaly of distal epiphysis of phalanx of finger .
a secondary ossification center in the distal phalanges of the hand that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
a secondary ossification center in the middle phalanges of the hand that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
a secondary ossification center in the proximal phalanges of the hand that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
stomatitis is an inflammation of the mucous membranes of any of the structures in the mouth .
a gap in the lower lip .
any abnormality of the salivary glands ,  the exocrine glands that produce saliva .
any abnormality of the submandibular glands ,  which are the salivary glands that are located beneath the floor of the mouth ,  superior to the digastric muscles .
absence or underdevelopment of the tongue .
tongue with a median apical indentation or fork .
any abnormality of dentin .
any abnormality of the spinal meninges ,  the system of membranes  ( dura mater ,  the arachnoid mater ,  and the pia mater )  which envelops the spinal cord .
an outpouching of the spinal meninges .
reduced inferior to superior extent of the thorax .
absence or underdevelopment of the breasts .
the presence of hypertrophy of the breast .
absence or underdevelopment of the diaphragm .
absence or underdevelopment of the abdominal musculature .
an anomaly of the little toe .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  joints of the fifth toe that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
partial or complete duplication of one or more phalanx of little toe .
a structural abnormality of the interventricular septum .
a congenital anomaly characterized by the presence of supernumerary fingers or toes .
a bifid or bifurcated appearance of the femur as seen on x - rays ,  possible appearing as a more or less severe bowing of the upper leg .
absence or underdevelopment of the spleen .
abnormality of the female genital system .
abnormality of the male genital system .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the ovary .
absence or underdevelopment of the testes .
the presence of more than two testes .
absence or underdevelopment of the urinary bladder .
abnormal increase in size of the upper limbs  ( due to an increase of the size of cells )  .
an abnormally increased length of the metacarpal bones .
abnormal increase in size of the lower limbs  ( due to an increase of the size of cells )  .
an ability of the toe joints to move beyond their normal range of motion .
toes that appear disproportionately long compared to the foot .
calcification within the adrenal glands .
deposition of calcium salts in the pituitary gland .
hypersecretion of one or more pituitary hormones .
absence or underdevelopment of the thymus .
an abnormal elevation of phytanic acid .
any abnormality of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the femoral head .
a cystic lesion originating within the brain .
increased size of epiphyses .
reduction in the size or volume of epiphyses .
any abnormality of the distal epiphysis of the femur .
any abnormality of the proximal epiphysis of the humerus .
any abnormality of the distal epiphysis of the humerus .
absence or underdevelopment of the anterior pituitary gland ,  also known as the adenohypophysis .
underdevelopment of the anterior pituitary gland .
any abnormality of a metatarsal bone epiphysis .
any abnormality of the epiphyses of the feet .
abnormality of the nasal cavity  ( the cavity includes and starts at the nares and reaches all the way through to the and includes the choanae ,  the posterior nasal apertures )  .
an abnormality of the meninges ,  including any abnormality of the dura mater ,  the arachnoid mater ,  and the pia mater .
an abnormality of the dura mater .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of an epiphysis .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of any bone of the skeleton of hand .
an abnormality of the diencephalon ,  which together with the cerebrum  ( telencephalon )  makes up the forebrain .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of any bone of the skeleton of foot .
an abnormality of the distribution of hair growth .
a developmental defect characterized by absence of the retina .
diminished length of a metatarsal bone ,  with resultant proximal displacement of the associated toe .
positioning of a lacrimal punctum other than at the medial margins of the eyelid .
aplasia of a toe .that is ,  absence of all phalanges of a non - hallux digit of the foot and the associated soft tissues .
deposition of calcium salts in a tissue or location in which calcification does not normally occur .
the presence of an abnormally large pelvis .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the uterus .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the genital system .
any structural abormality of the fifth cranial nerve .
abnormality of the eleventh cranial nerve .
abnormality of the twelfth cranial nerve .
abnormality of the seventh cranial nerve sometimes also referred to as the facial nerve .
an incomplete closure of the abdominal wall .
an abnormality of the umbilical cord ,  which is the cord connecting the developing embryo or fetus to the placenta .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a branched chain family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phenylalanine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a serine family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glycine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of an aspartate family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of methionine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a glutamine family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of lysine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of arginine in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of valine in the blood .
an increased concentration of leucine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of isoleucine in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of isoleucine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal circulation of valine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of tyrosine in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of divalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of monovalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
an abnormal concentration of sodium .
an abnormality of a nucleobase metabolic process .
an abnormality of the upper urinary tract .
an abnormality of the lower urinary tract .
an abnormality of the nasal skeleton .
an abnormality of the external nose .
an abnormality of the renal pelvis .
mild pyelectasis is defined as a hypoechoic spherical or elliptical space within the renal pelvis that measures at least 5mm and not more than 10 mm .
an abnormality of the fourth ventricle .
underdevelopment of the right - sided structures of the heart .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a long - chain fatty acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phytanic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a fatty acid anion in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of carnitine in the blood circulation .
a functional abnormality of the immune system .
an abnormality of the abdominal musculature .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a dicarboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a monocarboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
an abnormal increase of bone mineral density ,  that is ,  of the amount of matter per cubic centimeter of bones which is often referred to as osteosclerosis .
abnormally increased formation of dense trabecular bone tissue .
an abnormality of the systemic arterial tree ,  which consists of the aorta and other systemic arteries .
an abnormality of the neck musculature .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a carbohydrate in the blood circulation .
abnormality of glucose homeostasis .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the blood .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the urine .
an abnormality in a cellular process .
an abnormality of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the cardiovascular system .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the vagina .
an abnormality of the fallopian tube .
an abnormality of blood circulation .
the presence of hemorrhage within the body .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of transition element cation .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of iron cation .
an abnormality of the regulation of body fluids .
an abnormality of the cortex of the kidney .
an abnormality of the intrahepatic bile duct .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the cervical vertebral column .
an abnormal concentration of potassium .
an abnormality of the structure or composition of the teeth .
the presence of a supernumerary ,  i .e . ,  extra ,  tooth or teeth .
an abnormality of the outflow tract of the left ventricle .
an inflammation of the tonsils .
any morphological abnormality of the skin .
any abnormality of the physiological function of the skin .
the presence of inflammation of the skin .
an abnormality of the morphology of the epidermis .
absence or developmental hypoplasia of the sweat glands .
an abnormality of the skin adnexa  ( skin appendages )  ,  which are specialized skin structures located within the dermis and focally within the subcutaneous fatty tissue ,  comprising three histologically distinct structures:  ( 1 )  the pilosebaceous unit  ( hair follicle and sebaceous glands )  ;   ( 2 )  the eccrine sweat glands ;  and  ( 3 )  the apocrine glands .
gastric duplication is a usually cystic malformation of gastrointestinal tract ,  usually attached to the greater curvature of the stomach and has no communication with the stomach .
a spherical hollow structure with a smooth muscle coat ,  lined by a mucous membrane ,  and attached to any part of the gastrointestinal tract ,  from the base of the tongue to the anus .
an abnormal shape of occiput .
an abnormal shape of the frontal part of the head .
facial height  ( length )  is more than two standard deviations below the mean  ( objective )  ;  or an apparent decrease in the height  ( length )  of the face  ( subjective )  .
an abnormality of calcium concentration in the urine .
an abnormality of the hindbrain ,  also known as the rhombencephalon .
an abnormality of the metencephalon .
a morphological abnormality of a digit ,  i .e . ,  of a finger or toe .
the total absence of the foot ,  with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula .
an abnormality of size or shape of the long bones .
an abnormality of the fontanelle .
any anomaly of a cranial suture ,  that is one of the six membrane - covered openings in the incompletely ossified skull of the fetus or newborn infant .
an abnormality of the outline ,  configuration ,  or contour of the mouth .
an abnormality of the skin that is not localized to any one particular region .
a lesion of the skin that is located in a specific region rather than being generalized .
an abnormal amount of hair .
absence of the inner ear due to a developmental defect .
absence of the cochlea ,  a spiral shaped cavity in the inner ear ,  owing to a developmental defect .
an abnormality of the function of the inner ear .
a structural anomaly of the internal part of the ear .
absence or underdevelopment of the cochlea ,  a spiral shaped cavity in the inner ear ,  owing to a developmental defect .
increased length of the umbilical cord .
an finding upon obstetric ultrasound examination performed at around 16 to 20 weeks of gestation that is abnormal but not clearly identifiable as a fetal anatomic malformation or growth restriction .
an abnormality of the medulla oblongata ,  the lower half of the brainstem .
a type of infection of the central nervous system that can be regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
an abnormality of the function of the middle ear .
aplasia of the stapes .
absence or underdevelopment of the gallbladder .
a developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form .
an abnormality of the lacrimal punctum ,  an opening on the eyelid close to the medial canthus that drains tears from the conjunctival sac into the lacrimal duct in the same eyelid .
an abnormality of the lacrimal duct ,  a duct that drain tears from the conjunctiva ,  via the lacrimal puncta ,  into the lacrimal sac .
abnormality of the lacrimal gland ,  i .e . ,  of the almond - shaped gland that secretes the aqueous layer of the tear film for each eye .
abnormality of the corneal endothelium ,  that is ,  the single layer of cells on the inner surface of the cornea .
abnormality of descemet's membrane ,  which is the basement membrane of the corneal endothelium .
an abnormality of the stroma of cornea ,  also known as the substantia propria of cornea .
abnormality of the corneal epithelium ,  that is of the epithelial tissue that covers the front of the cornea .
increased pigmentation of the fundus
an iris cyst is composed of a single cell layer of epithelium and is filled with fluid .
an abnormal shape of the lens .
an abnormality of the pulmonary situs ,  i .e . ,  of the sidedness of the morphological right and left lungs ,  which is defined by characteristics such as the number of lobes per lung and the relationship of the pulmonary arteries to their bronchi .
a developmental defect of the pericardium with congenital onset .
no pericardium around the heart ,  occurring as a congenital defect ,  not the result of a surgical pericardectomy .
an abnormality of the coronary sinus ,  which is formed by the union of the great cardiac vein and the left marginal vein and terminates in the right atrium .
a venous pouch within the left ventricular wall ,  with a neck opening into the coronary sinus .
an abnormality of the pulmonary veins .
defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the right heart identifiable at birth .
an abnormality in the range and ease of motion of joints across their normal range .
any structural anomaly of the adrenal glands .
a functional abnormality of the adrenal glands .
absent development of the adrenal gland .
an abnormality of the adenohypophysis ,  which is also known as the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
an abnormality of the neurohypophysis ,  which is also known as the posterior lobe of the hypophysis .
abnormal development of the neurohypophysis during embryonic growth and development .
absence of the neurohypophysis owing to a developmental defect .
underdevelopment of the neurohypophysis .
a structural abnormality of the parathyroid gland .
a functional abnormality of the parathyroid gland .
abnormal embryonic development of the parathyroid gland .
a structural abnormality of the thyroid gland .
neoplasm categorized according to the anatomical site of origin of the neoplasm .
posterior positions and / or vertical shortening of the infraorbital and perialar regions ,  or increased concavity of the face and / or reduced nasolabial angle .
visually assessable vertical indentation ,  cleft ,  or depression of the nasal bridge ,  ridge and tip .
a functional abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
a structural abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
an abnormality of one or more of the set of bones that make up the facial skeleton .
abnormality of the oral mucosa .
an abnormality of the form ,  structure ,  or size of the skeletal system .
an abnormality of the function of the skeletal system .
an abnormality of the appendicular skeletal system ,  consisting of the of the limbs ,  shoulder and pelvic girdles .
any anomaly in the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any structural anomaly of the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity .
bleeding from vessels of the various tissues of the eye .
hemorrhage from the vessels of the choroid .
an anomaly of a metacarpophalangeal joint .
an anomaly of the glenoid fossa ,  also known as the glenoid cavity ,  which is the articular surface of the scapula that articulates with the head of the humerus .
abnormal calcification in the cardiovascular system .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the fifth toe .
one or more digit that appears disproportionately short compared to the hand / foot ,  whereby either the entire digit or a specific phalanx is shortened .
developmental hypoplasia  ( shortening )  of proximal phalanx of toe .
an infection of the upper or lower respiratory tract .
any deviation from the normal concentration of citrulline in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of citrulline in the blood .
an abnormality of the interatrial septum .
elevated concentration of galactose in the urine .
elevated concentration of galactose in the blood .
deviation from the normal concentration of ornithine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of ornithine in the blood .
an abnormal concentration of a hormone in the urine .
excretion of urine with an acid ph .
an abnormally increased size of the cerebellum compared to other brain structures .
an anomaly in the surface contour of mitochondria .
an anomaly of the function of the pancreas .
a functional anomaly of the acinar gland portion of the pancreas that secretes digestive enzymes .
a function abnormality of the endocrine pancreas .
a deviation from the normal size of the pancreas .
a deviation from the normal number of mitochondria per cell .
an anomaly of the mitochondrion ,  the membranous cytoplasmic organelle the interior of which is subdivided by cristae .
underdevelopment of the pons .
an abnormality of the concentration of a glucocorticoid in the blood .
inflammation of the liver .
an decrease in the level of triglycerides in the blood .
a developmental defect resulting in the presence of fewer than the normal number of digits .
any structural anomaly of the kidney .
an abnormal functionality of the kidney .
a structural or developmental anomaly of any of the tissues involved in the genital system .
a structural anomaly of the respiratory system .
any structural anomaly of the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi .
an abnormally reduced concentration of glycine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of serine in the blood circulation .
reduced concentration of serine in the blood .
an abnormal functionality of the hypothalamus .
any structural anomaly of the hypothalamus .
an abnormal pigmentation pattern of the external genitalia .
abnormality of the occipital bone of the skull .
increased length of the middle phalanx of finger .
increased length of the distal phalanx of finger .
an anomaly of the process of rib bone formation .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  of the abdomen .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  of the arms and legs .
an anomaly of the celiac artery .
a structural abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
a functional abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
an anomaly in the processes involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium .
a decreased concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormally decreased phosphate concentration in the urine .
a structural anomaly of the globe of the eye ,  or bulbus oculi .
a functional anomaly of the eye .
an altered ability of any enzyme or their cofactors to act as catalysts .
the distal interphalangeal joint and / or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension .
an abnormality of the partial pressure of oxygen or carbon dioxide in the arterial blood .
an inflammation of the choroid and retina .
a structural anomaly of the gallbladder .
a functional anomaly of the gallbladder .
a functional abnormality of the biliary tree .
a structural abnormality of the biliary tree .
a structural abnormality of the brain ,  which has as its parts the forebrain ,  midbrain ,  and hindbrain .
an increased level of iron in liver tissues .
an anomaly of cerebral veins .
inflammation of the spinal cord .
inflammation of adipose tissue .
an anomaly of the pituitary gland .
a deviation from the normal size of the pituitary gland .
an abnormally increased size of the pituitary gland .
an abnormally decreased size of the pituitary gland .
an anomaly of the circle of willis ,  also known as the cerebral arterial circle .
a structural anomaly of the nephron .
an abnormality in the concentration of electrolytes in the urine .
an abnormal concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormal phosphate concentration in the urine .
an abnormal concentration of sodium in the urine .
an abnormally decreased sodium concentration in the urine .
an increased concentration of sodium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an anomalous finding in the examination of the urine for cells .
a developmental anomaly associated with the failure of rectum ,  vagina ,  and bladder to separate .
a functional anomaly of the nervous system .
a structural anomaly of the nervous system .
increase in size of a peripheral nerve .
any anomaly of the inflammatory response ,  a response to injury or infection characterized by local vasodilation ,  extravasation of plasma into intercellular spaces and accumulation of white blood cells and macrophages .
an abnormal reduction in the inflammatory response to injury or infection .
a abnormal increase in the inflammatory response to injury or infection .
an abnormal build up of iron  ( fe )  in brain tissue .
an anomaly of the pineal gland , a small endocrine gland in the brain that produces melatonin .
a structural abnormality of the pineal gland .
accumulation of calcium salts in the pineal gland .
an abnormal increase or decrease in the quantity of three - dimensional space taken up by the pineal gland .
an abnormal reduction in the quantity of three - dimensional space taken up by the pineal gland .
an abnormal elevation in the quantity of three - dimensional space taken up by the pineal gland .
a functional abnormality of the pineal gland .
a structural abnormality of a diaphysis of the leg .
a functional anomaly of the large intestine .
abnormality in the space in the meninges beneath the arachnoid membrane and above the pia mater that contains the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormal structure of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the gastrointestinal tract .
a vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover .
an abnormality of the anus or rectum .
excessive fat around the stomach and abdomen .
failure of the femur to develop .
a deviation from normal size of the placenta .
a structural anomaly of the ciliary body .
chronic loss of joint motion in a finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
an anomaly of the process of formation of bone in the humerus .
a lack of bone mineralization of one or more body of thoracic vertebra .
underdevelopment of part or all of the female external reproductive organs  ( which include the mons pubis ,  labia majora ,  labia minora ,  bartholin glands ,  and clitoris )  .
inflammation of the myocardium .
bleeding from the small intestine .
an abnormal functionality of the male genital system .
an anomaly of the neck of the uterus  ( lower part of the uterus )  ,  called the uterine cervix .
hypertrophy of one or more muscles innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the muscles of the neck .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the scapular muscles .
a coloboma of the ciliary body .
a structural anomaly of the tiny blood vessels that connect arterioles with venules and whose walls act as semipermeable membranes that mediate the diffusion of fluids and gases between the blood circulation and body tissues .
a functional anomaly of the tiny blood vessels that connect arterioles with venules and whose walls act as semipermeable membranes that mediate the diffusion of fluids and gases between the blood circulation and body tissues .
a functional anomaly of the digestive system .
a structural anomaly of the digestive system .
a collection of pus within a testicle .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in lung parenchyma ,  which leads to a cavity ,  and after formation of bronchopulmonary fistula ,  can manifest as an air - fluid level inside the cavity .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas .
passage of many stools containing blood .
structural abnormality of the hypothalamus related to defective development .
a functional anomaly of the hepatobiliary system
a hollow mass located in the skin that is surrounded by an epithelium - lined wall and is well demarcated from the adjacent tissue .
any physiological abnormality of the esophagus .
an anomaly of arterial function .
an anomaly of the margin of the cornea overlapped by the sclera .
an anomaly of cellular morphology or physiology .
any anomaly of the structure of the spleen .
any anomaly of the function of the spleen .
any anomaly of the structure of the larynx .
any anomaly of the function of the larynx .
any anomaly of the morphology of the bronchi .
any anomaly of the function of the bronchi .
inflammation  ( due to infection or irritation )  of the pharynx .
any deviation from the normal range of concentration of a metabolite in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any anomaly of cell structure .
any structural anomaly of the bladder .
a congenital anomaly characterized by the presence of two bladders .
any structural anomaly of the principal vein draining blood from the upper portion of the body and delivering it to the right ventricle of the heart .
any structural anomaly of the principal vein draining blood from the lower portion of the body .
any structural abnormality of the left atrium .
any structural abnormality of the right atrium .
a structural abnormality of the ureter .
a functional abnormality of the ureter .
congenital absence of the cervix .
incomplete duplication of the ureter .
a bent  ( flexed )  finger or toe joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
a collection of pus ,  immune cells ,  and other material in the brain .
an anomaly of the inner mucous membrane of the uterus .
a structural anomaly of the liver located predominantly in the hepatocytes as opposed to stromal cells .
inflammation of the biliary ductal system ,  affecting the intrahepatic or extrahepatic portions ,  or both .
abnormality of vascular function .
abnormalities of the overall muscle bulk based on clinical observation .
thrombosis of the portal vein and / or its tributaries ,  which include the splenic vein and the superior and inferior mesenteric veins .
an obstruction in the veins of the liver caused by a blood clot  ( thrombosis )  .
the term splanchnic vein thrombosis encompasses budd - chiari syndrome  ( hepatic vein thrombosis )  ,  extrahepatic portal vein obstruction  ( ehpvo )  ,  and mesenteric vein thrombosis ;  the word splanchnic is used to refer to the visceral organs  ( of the abdominal cavity )  .
lack of recognizable penile structures .
a deviation from the normal number of vertebrae in the spinal column .
an increase in the vertical distance between adjacent vertebral bodies ,  observed as an increase in the intervertebral disc space .
a closed sac located in the spleen .
a closed fluid filled sac originating from the mesentary .
any cystic lesion associated with the umbilical cord .
a structural anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
any structural anomaly of the heart and great vessels .
inflammation of the vagina that can result from a spectrum of conditions that cause vaginal and sometimes vulvar symptoms ,  such as itching ,  burning ,  irritation ,  odor ,  and vaginal discharge .
increase in size of the right atrium .
a fluid - filled sac  ( cyst )  located within the central nervous system .
any structural anomaly of the tongue .
increase in size of the tonsils ,  small collections of lymphoid tissue facing into the aerodigestive tract on either side of the back part of the throat .
lack of observable tonsillar tissue .
an anomaly of venous function .
a functional anomaly of that portion of the cardiosvascular system that carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood back to the heart .
supernumerary clitoris .
a structural anomaly affecting a blood vessel involved in the circulation of the heart ,  i .e . ,  the superior or inferior vena cava ,  the pulmonary arteries ,  the pulmonary veins ,  and the aorta .
an abnormality of the structure of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormality of the structure of the pulmonary veins .
an abnormality of the function of the pulmonary veins .
a chronic deviation from normal pressure in the systemic arterial system .
an elevation in bone density in one or more tarsal bones of the foot .
any anomaly of ovarian function .
any anomaly of the structure of an organ ofthe endocrine system .
any anomaly of the function of the endocrine system .
any anomaly of the structure of the breast .
any anomaly of the function of the breast .
any anomaly of the structure of the humerus .
any anomaly of the structure of the uterus
increase in size of the left atrium .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in an artery that is located within the skull  ( intracranial )  .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the internal carotid artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in a cerebral artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in a carotid artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the external carotid artery .
a maladaptive personality trait characterized by moderate or greater impairment in personality  ( self  / interpersonal )  functioning .
any anomaly of the pigmentation of the fundus ,  the posterior part of the eye including the retina and optic nerve .
any structural anomaly of the ear .
any functional anomaly of the ear .
a developmental defect in which the coronary sinus fails to form .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glycerol in the blood .
bleeding within the fundus of the eye .
a functional anomaly of the mouth  ( which is also known as the oral cavity )  .
any structural anomaly of the mouth ,  which is also known as the oral cavity .
a functional abnormality affecting one or more of the cranial nerves ,  which emerge directly from the brain stem .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carbohydrate in the urine .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the urine .
an anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
a functional anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
underdevelopment of the carotid canal ,  which normally is a circular aperture in the temporal bone of the skull through which the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus of nerves traverse .
a type of infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
any functional abnormality of the part of the nervous system that consists of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord .
an unusual infection classified by the affected body part .
an abnormal level of an analyte measured in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in cerebrospinal fluid .
any structural anomaly of the sebaceous glands .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in a tissue .
an abnormality in the function of the chemical reactions related to processes including conversion of food to enter ,  synthesis of proteins ,  lipids ,  nucleic acids ,  and carbohydrates ,  or the elimination of waste products .
abnormal increase in blood pressure .
increased level of phenylalanine in urine .
an abnormally low blood ph  ( usually defined as less than 7 .35 )  .
an abnormally high blood ph  ( usually defined as 7 .41 or above )  .
a round circumscribed space within a lung that is surrounded by an epithelial or fibrous wall of variable thickness .
pulmonary bullae are rounded focal regions of emphysema with a thin wall which measure more than 1 cm in diameter .
abnormal coloring of the lip ,  whereby the lip discolored ,  blotchy ,  or darker or lighter than normal .
underdevelopment of the ureter .
any structural anomaly of the renal tubular epithelial cells  ( rtec )  ,  a layer of cells in the outer layer of the renal tubule .
an encapsulated collection of pus and necrotic material within the renal parenchyma .
a deviation of urine ph from the normal range of 4 .5 to 7 .8 .
a neoplasm that affects the female reproductive system .
any structural anomaly of the fetal part of the placenta ,  which is known as the chorion .
absence or underdevelopment of the thyroid gland .
an elevated level of an aromatic amino acid in the urine .
an abnormally increased level of tyrosine in the urine .
an elevated level of an glutamine family amino acid in the urine .
an increased level in the urine of an alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
an increased level of a serine family amino acid in the urine .
an elevated level of a proteinogenic amino acid in the urine .
an elevated level of a proteinogenic amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration in the blood circulation of an alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
inflammation of the lining of the upper small intestine  ( duodenum )  .
an anomaly of the musculoskeletal system ,  which consists of the bones of the skeleton ,  muscles ,  cartilage ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  joints ,  and other connective tissue .
a structural anomaly of the pharynx .
a functional anomaly of the pharynx .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  of the chest .
an abnormality of the tympanic membrane
a deviation from the normal concentration of cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  in the blood .
an increased amount of carboxylic acid in the urine .
an abnormally increased head circumference in a growing child .
an abnormally reduced head circumference in a growing child .
bleeding occuring within a muscle
absence or underdevelopment of the nasopharyngeal adenoids .
a deviation in the size of nasopharyngeal adenoids .
underdevelopment of the nasopharyngeal adenoids .
an abnormal decrease in the size of nasopharyngeal adenoids .
an abnormal increase in the size of nasopharyngeal adenoids .
an abnormal resistance to glucose ,  i .e . ,  a reduction in the ability to maintain glucose levels in the blood stream within normal limits following oral or intravenous administration of glucose .
a structural anomaly of the muscles of the trunk and head .
an increased concentration of glycerol in the urine .
increased concentration of glycerol in the blood .
tubular lumnal dilatation / prominence lined by simple layer of cuboidal - to - flat tublar epihelial cells .
defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the left heart identifiable at birth .
an anomaly of the size of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
inflammation in any serous cavity .
any morphological abnormality of the cervical vertebral column .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the breast .
folds of membranous tissue  ( peritoneum ,  mesothelium )  attached to the wall of the abdomen and enclosing viscera .
deposition of calcium salts in muscle tissue .
calcium deposition affecting the meninges .
the presence of dysplastic regions in metaphyseal regions .
a form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the thumb or great toe .
a form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the fifth finger or fifth toe .
an abnormality of the structure or form of the tendons ,  also often called sinews .
the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fifth toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the distal interphalangeal joint of the 5th toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the joint between the second metatarsal and the proximal phalanx of the 5th toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
developmental hypoplasia of one or more phalanx of little toe .
absence  ( agenesis )  or underdevelopment of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the 5th toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of little toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of the 5th toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the proximal phalanx of fifth toe .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of little toe .
partial or complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of fifth toe .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of little toe .
complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of fifth toe .
the distal interphalangeal joint and / or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension .
contractures of one ore more joints of the feet meaning chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
a decreased concentration of ammonia in the blood .
an anomaly in the metabolism of a vitamin .
the presence of an abscess of the liver .
congenital duplication of all or part of a limb .
an abnormality of phosphate homeostasis or concentration in the body .
inflammation of the eye ,  parts of the eye or the periorbital region .
an abnormal site of the kidney .
an abnormality of the forebrain ,  which has as its parts the telencephalon ,  diencephalon ,  lateral ventricles and third ventricle .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of one or more vertebrae .
a cardiac diverticulum is a rare congenital malformation which is either fibrous or muscular .
a fibrous cardiac diverticulum refers to an aneurysm and usually appears as an isolated congenital anomaly .
inflammation of the urinary bladder .
an inflammation of the endocardium ,  the inner layer of the heart ,  which usually involves the heart valves .
the presence of an abscess of the peritoneum .
the nostrils  ( the paired channels of the nose )  are not present .
a general term for inflammation of the muscles without respect to the underlying cause .
the presence of a diverticulum of the esophagus .
presence of a cyst  ( sac - like structure )  located in the larynx .
inflammation of the thyroid gland .
inflammation of cartilage .
a developmental disorder in which there is a duplication the entire intestine or of a portion of the intestine .
an abnormality of the pigmentation of the mucosa of the mouth .
a developmental disorder in which there is a duplication of a portion of the muscle and submucosa of the esophagus without epithelial duplication .
an abnormality of the arachnoid mater .
an abnormality of the pia mater .
an abnormality of the thoracic vertebral column .
any structural abnormality of the lumbar vertebral column .
a sectoral indentation of the crystalline lens ,  usually due to zonular weakness or absence .
an anomaly of one or more epiphyses of one or more vertebrae .
an anomaly of the lymphatic system ,  a network of lymphatic vessels that carry a clear fluid called lymph unidirectionally towards either the right lymphatic duct or the thoracic duct ,  which in turn drain into the right and left subclavian veins respectively .
an abnormality of the tonsils .
a structural anomaly of the vessel that contains or conveys lymph fluid .
an abnormality of the placenta ,  the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake ,  waste elimination ,  and gas exchange .
excessive growth or abnormal thickening of bone tissue .
a congenital underdevelopment  ( aplasia or hypoplasia )  of the pancreas .
the middle finger is more than 2 sd above the mean for newborns 27 to 41 weeks ega or above the 97th centile for children from birth to 16 years of age and the five digits retain their normal length proportions relative to each other  ( i .e . ,  it is not the case that the middle finger is the only lengthened digit )  ,  or ,  fingers that appear disproportionately long compared to the palm of the hand .
an outpouching of the gastric wall .
congenital absence or underdevelopment of the colon .
an abnormality of emotional behaviour .
an abnormality of fear / anxiety - related behavior ,  which may relate to either abnormally reduced fear / anxiety - related response or increased fear / anxiety - related response .
decreased ossification of the vertebral bodies .
increase in bone density of the vertebral body .
an abnormally short femoral neck  ( which is the process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft )  .
underdevelopment of the iliac bones .
cystic ,  urine - containing intrarenal cavities lined with transitional cell epithelium that communicate through a narrow channel with the collecting system .
an abnormality in the placement of the ocular globe  ( eyeball )  .
an abnormality in the size of the ocular globe  ( eyeball )  .
an abnormality of the common bile duct ,  a tube - like anatomic structure in the human gastrointestinal tract ,  formed by the union of the common hepatic duct and the cystic duct from the gall bladder .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the fingers .
an elevation of bone density in the distal phalanx of the thumb .
an elevation of bone density in the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
an elevation in bone density in one or more distal phalanges of the fingers .
an elevation in bone density in one or more middle phalanges of the fingers .
an elevation in bone density in one or more proximal phalanges of the fingers .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the fifth finger .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the toes .
an elevation in bone density in one or more foot bones .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the fifth toe .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the big toe .
an elevation in bone density in one or more proximal phalanges of the toes .
an elevation in bone density in one or more middle phalanges of the toes .
an elevation in bone density in one or more distal phalanges of the toes .
any structural abnormality of the medulla of the kidney .
nontender ,  round and firm ,  but slightly compressible ,  intradermal or subcutaneous cyst measuring 0 .5 - 5 cm in diameter .
disproportionately small hand .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  .
median longitudinal ear length greater than two sd above the mean determined by the maximal distance from the superior aspect to the inferior aspect of the external ear .
median longitudinal ear length less than two sd above the mean determined by the maximal distance from the superior aspect to the inferior aspect of the external ear .
abnormality of the first branch of the internal carotid artery .
any abnormality of the part of the nervous system that consists of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord .
any abnormality of the part of the peripheral nervous system associated with sensation and skeletal muscle voluntary control of body movements .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous system .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the peripheral autonomic nervous system .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous system of the cranium .
a gap in the lip or lips .
any structural anomaly of the bile - secreting organ that is important for detoxification ,  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ,  and for glycogen storage .
any structural anomaly of the hollow epithelial tube found on the dorsal side of the vertebrate embryo that develops into the central nervous system  ( i .e .
an increase in the level of l - glutamic acid in the blood .
any abnormality of the chest muscles .
any abnormality of the back muscles .
any abnormality of the shoulder muscles .
an abnormality in any umbilical cord measurement performed after birth ,  such as the blood gas level .
absence of the sebaceous gland ,  the holocrine gland that secretes sebum into the hair follicles ,  or in hairless areas into ducts .
an abnormality of the muscles of the structure of the nose .
inflammation of the urethra .
underdevelopment of the musculature of the pelvis .
an elevation in bone density in one or more carpal bones of the hand .
a decreased amount of valine in the blood .
an decreased concentration of tyrosine in the blood .
an increased amount of serine in the blood .
a decreased amount of phenylalanine in the blood .
a decreased amount of lysine in the blood .
decreased amount of leucine in the blood .
a decreased amount of isoleucine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamate in the blood circulation .
an increased amount of arginine levels in the blood .
an abnormal decrease in ornithine in the blood .
an abnormality of the partial pressure of oxygen in the arterial blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of branched - chain amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of valine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any increased amount from normal of valine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any decreased amount from normal of valine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of leucine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of leucine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of leucine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of isoleucine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of isoleucine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of isoleucine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamine - family amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of glutamic acid in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of glutamic acid in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of arginine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of arginine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of arginine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of aspartate - family amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of lysine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of lysine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of lysine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of methionine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of methionine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of aromatic amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phenylalanine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of tyrosine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of tyrosine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of tyrosine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of phenylalanine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of phenylalanine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of serine - family amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of serine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of serine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of serine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glycine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of glycine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of ornithine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of ornithine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of citrulline in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of citrulline in cerebrospinal fluid .
the most dramatic and severe form of hair loss characterized by an absence of hair follicles .
any structural anomaly of an inner ear epithelium .
an abnormality of a buccal mucosa .
an abnormality of a cartilage of external ear .
any structural abnormality of a facial artery ,  one of the branches of the external carotid artery .
any abnormality of nasopharyngeal adenoids .
an abnormality of a blood vessel of the head ,  including branches of the arterial and venous systems of the head .
an abnormality of a blood vessel of the neck ,  including branches of the arterial and venous systems of the neck .
an abnormality of an external carotid artery .
any structural abnormality of a jugular vein .
an abnormality of a facial vein .
an abnormality of a genioglossus muscle .
any structural anomaly of the glossopharyngeal nerve ,  the ninth paired cranial nerve  ( cn ix )  .
an abnormality of an odontoid tissue .
an abnormality of a hyoglossus muscle .
an abnormality of a hyoid bone .
a structural anomaly of the hypopharyx ,  which is the most inferior portion of the pharynx .
an abnormality of an artery of lower lip .
an abnormality of an internal carotid artery .
an abnormality of an internal jugular vein .
an abnormality of an intrinsic muscle of tongue .
an abnormality of a lacrimal artery .
an abnormality of a lacrimal sac .
any structural abnormality of a lingual artery .
any structural anomaly of a lingual nerve .
a structural abnormality of a mandibular symphysis .
a measurement unit label is as a label that is part of a scalar measurement datum and denotes a unit of measure .
a directive information entity that describes an intended process endpoint .
a directive information entity that describes an action the bearer will take .
a label is a symbol that is part of some other datum and is used to either partially define  the denotation of that datum or to provide a means for identifying the datum as a member of the set of data with the same label
software is a plan specification composed of a series of instructions that can be  \ ninterpreted by or directly executed by a processing unit .
a quality of an information bearer that imparts the information content
an information content entity that is intended to be a truthful statement about something  ( modulo ,  e .g . ,  measurement precision or other systematic errors )  and is constructed / acquired by a method which reliably tends to produce  ( approximately )  truthful statements .
an information content entity that is a mark ( s )  or character ( s )  used as a conventional representation of another entity .
a generically dependent continuant that is about some thing .
an information content entity whose concretizations indicate to their bearer how to realize them in a process .
a dot plot is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data where each data point is represented by a single dot placed on coordinates corresponding to data point values in particular dimensions .
a diagram that presents one or more tuples of information by mapping those tuples in to a two dimensional space in a non arbitrary way .
a plan specification which describes the inputs and output of mathematical functions as well as workflow of execution for achieving an predefined objective .
the curation status of the term .
a source code module is a directive information entity that specifies ,  using a programming language ,  some algorithm .
a data format specification is the information content borne by the document published defining the specification . \ nexample: the iso document specifying what encompasses an xml document ;  the instructions in a xsd file
a data item that is an aggregate of other data items of the same type that have something in common .
an image is an affine projection to a two dimensional surface ,  of measurements of some quality of an entity or entities repeated at regular intervals across a spatial range ,  where the measurements are represented as color and luminosity on the projected on surface .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
a directive information entity with action specifications and objective specifications as parts that ,  when concretized ,  is realized in a process in which the bearer tries to achieve the objectives by taking the actions specified .
a measurement datum is an information content entity that is a recording of the output of a measurement such as produced by a device .
a material entity in which a concretization of an information content entity inheres .
a histogram is a report graph which is a statistical description of a \ ndistribution in terms of occurrence frequencies of different event classes .
a heatmap is a report graph which is a graphical representation of data \ nwhere the values taken by a variable ( s )  are shown as colors in a \ ntwo - dimensional map .
a dendrogram is a report graph which is a tree diagram \ nfrequently used to illustrate the arrangement of the clusters produced by a \ nclustering algorithm .
a scatterplot is a graph which uses cartesian coordinates to display values for two variables for a set of data .
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
an information content entity consisting of a two dimensional arrangement of information content entities such that the arrangement itself is about something .
a figure that expresses one or more propositions
a collection of information content entities intended to be understood together as a whole
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a symbol that is part of a crid and that is sufficient to look up a record from the crid's registry .
an information content entity that consists of a crid symbol and additional information about the crid registry to which it belongs .
a crid registry is a dataset of crid records ,  each consisting of a crid symbol and additional information which was recorded in the dataset through a assigning a centrally registered identifier process .
a clinically prescribed procedure ,  therapy ,  intervention ,  or recommendation .
all manners of treatment ,  be they pharmaceuticals ,  invasive procedures ,  etc .
any procedure or test to diagnose a disease or disorder .
a diagnostic or treatment procedure performed by manual and / or instrumental means ,  often involving an incision and the removal or replacement of a diseased organ or tissue ;  of or relating to or involving or used in surgery or requiring or amenable to treatment by surgery .
any technology or method that aids in the visualization of any biological process ,  cell ,  tissue or organ for use in screening ,  diagnosis ,  surgical procedures or therapy .
any procedure that involves testing or manipulating a sample of blood ,  urine ,  or other body substance in a laboratory setting for diagnosis ,  treatment ,  or therapy .
behavioral or regulatory nutritional interventions aim at modifying nutritional intake which have an impact on health outcomes .
cognitive and behavioral interventions are therapies that are designed to decrease symptoms and foster the belief that one has control over thoughts ,  beliefs ,  attitudes ,  and skills to facilitate coping .
the treatment of deformity or disease through mechanical force and movement ,  including both active and passive exercises ,  intended to ameliorate injury ,  increase mobility ,  and improve overall function .
complementary and alternative medicine  ( cam )  or complementary health approaches are a group of diverse medical and health care practices and products that are not presently considered to be part of conventional medicine .
treatment of a disease by means of exposure of the target or the whole body to radiation .
a type of treatment that uses substances derived from or made by living organisms to treat disease ;  this includes both naturally occurring and synthetic products .
cell therapy is therapy in which cellular material is injected into a patient .
a therapy or action designed to prevent disease or ailment .
a broad subcategory of medical signs or objective indications of medical state which can be measured accurately and reproducibly .
a behavioral modification or implementation of a behavior designed to prevent disease or ailment .
an approach that improves the quality of life of patients and their families facing the problems associated with life - threatening illness ,  through the prevention and relief of suffering by means of early identification and impeccable assessment and treatment of pain and other problems ,  physical ,  psychosocial ,  and spiritual .
a service delivery system that provides palliative care / medicine when life expectancy is 6 months or less and when curative or life - prolonging therapy is no longer indicated .
care for patients with a progressive life - limiting disease with a prognosis of months or less .
any medical procedure used to sustain the life of a patient in critical condition .
a clinical recommendation to avoid preventable diseases by vaccination or otherwise lowering risk for certain diseases .
avoidance of an illness or infection that can be spread from person to person ,  animal to person ,  animal to animal or person to animal by taking precautionary measures ,  such as good hygiene practices or vaccines .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid dehydration .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid hypertension .
a medical recommendation to avoid obesity .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid skin inflammation .
a clinical recommendation to avoid or refrain from certain environmental exposures in order to maintain health or ameliorate symptoms .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
use of a drug to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
use of a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a medical recommendation of sustained exercise that places an increased oxygen demand on the cardiovascular system and promotes an increased efficiency of the body's use of oxygen .
the administration of oxygen to an individual ,  usually to aid in respiration .
transference of a tissue or organ within an individual ,  between individuals of the same species ,  or between individuals of different species .
the surgical transfer of a healthy liver to a patient .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the human body .
a procedure to measure pancreatic secretion to discriminate between pancreatic and nonpancreatic causes of malabsorption .
the quantitative measurement of liver enzymes in the blood ,  which is useful in assessing the functional state of a patient's liver .
the act of receiving professional guidance in resolving personal conflicts and emotional problems .
counseling designed to guide and support an individual to overcome alcohol dependence .
the process whereby an expert in hereditary disorders provides information about risk and clinical burden of a disorder or disorders to patients or relatives in families with genetic disorders as an aid to making informed and responsible decisions about marriage ,  children ,  early diagnosis ,  and handling disability .
a wide range of techniques and psychotherapies aimed at controlling a person's level of stress .
a process by which a health professional provides education ,  recommendations ,  or interventions to help clients stop using tobacco products .
the practice of piercing specific points on the body with very thin sterile needles in order to relieve pain or induce regional anesthesia .
continuous and profound contemplation or musing on a subject or series of subjects of a deep or abstruse nature ;  contemplation of spiritual matters .
an ancient system of practices used to balance the mind and body through exercise ,  meditation  ( focusing thoughts )  ,  and control of breathing and emotions .
an alternative medical system that focuses on the relationship between bodily structure  ( primarily that of the spine )  and function ,  and how that relationship affects the preservation and restoration of health .
a therapeutic method of manipulation ,  methodical pressure ,  friction ,  and kneading of the body .
any alteration or treatment in an individual's diet with a planned goal ,  usually designed to improve the individual's overall health .
the restriction of energy  ( calorie )  intake below the amount required for weight maintenance .
delivery of enteral nutrition via a tube placed into the stomach ,  duodenum ,  or jejunum .
abstinence from all or some kinds of food or drink ,  particularly for religious observance ,  medical nutrition therapy ,  or prior to a medical procedure .
the addition of one or more elements and / or chemical compounds that are either absent or deficient in an individual's daily diet .
a dietary supplement containing all or most of the vitamins that may not be readily available in the diet .
oral iron supplementation is an effective and wellstudied option to replenish iron stores .
treatment with antioxidants in order to protect cells against damage caused by oxygen - free radicals .
administration of nutritional support by means of a tube passed into the stomach .
total parenteral nutrition formulated for intravenous administration in patients who cannot eat or cannot get enough nutrients from the foods they eat .
any action taken for the purpose of improving or maintaining an individual's memory .
a behavioral modification or implementation of a behavior designed to prevent smoking .
the prevention of conception or impregnation by the use of devices or drugs or surgery .
immunization is the process whereby a person is made immune or resistant to an infectious disease ,  typically by the administration of a vaccine .
active immunity refers to the process of exposing the body to an antigen to generate an adaptive immune response: the response takes days / weeks to develop but may be long lastingeven lifelong .
passive immunity refers to the process of providing igg antibodies to protect against infection ;  it gives immediate ,  but short - lived protection .
the use of any device ,  marker ,  or other means for the purpose of detecting the presence of disease ,  usually in asymptomatic individuals .
testing conducted utilizing a manual or microprocessor audiometer to test for hearing loss .
the use of any device ,  marker ,  or other means for the purpose of detecting the presence of a tumor ,  usually before there are any symptoms .
the process of isolating and testing the dna of an embryo or a person to detect the presence of genetic alterations or defects that may predispose to the future development of a disease or disorder .
any test performed during pregnancy to assess fetal health and to detect for genetic abnormalities and various disorders .
an examination of tissue removed from the body to assess the presence ,  cause ,  or extent of a disease .
a diagnostic or therapeutic procedure in which an endoscope is inserted in a tubular organ to examine the structural architecture and / or remove abnormal tissues .
an endoscopic technique that allows deep intubation of the small intestine while using a standard endoscope .
endoscopy that employs the use of tissue stains to increase tissue contrast ,  and enhance the ability to identify various tissue dysplasia and other abnormalities .
a low - cost ,  high - resolution imaging tool consisting of a 1 - mm diameter fiber - optic bundle that produces subcellular imaging at 1 , 000x magnification and 4 micrometer resolution ,  allowing for minimally invasive bioimaging .
a technique for measuring the gamma radiation produced by collisions of electrons and positrons  ( anti - electrons )  within living tissue .
ultrasound imaging following the administration of a microbubble contrast agent .
a postmortem examination of the body that includes an examination of the internal organs and structures after dissection to determine the cause of death and the nature of pathological changes .
a  procedure to examine and define cellular anatomy or function .
the collecting of secretions and superficial cells of the body of uterus ,  cervix ,  and ovaries ;  examined with a microscope to detect any abnormal cells .
examination under a microscope of cells found in sputum  ( mucus and other matter brought up from the lungs by coughing )  .
examination of the cells in urine .
technique or procedure used for the study of the microanatomy of tissues and their cellular structure for the diagnosis or treatment of a disease .
a procedure to determine the number of cells in a clinical sample .
a lprocedure to measure hematopoietic components and investigate hematologic disorders in a blood sample .
the determination of the maximum amount of oxygen that can be combined chemically with hemoglobin in a volume of blood .
a measure of the volume of red blood cells expressed as a percentage of the total blood volume .
a medical recommendation to avoid a particular therapy ,  intervention ,  medication ,  or procedure .
administration of intravenous infusions of alpha - 1 proteinase inhibitor at regular schedules is a specific therapy for individuals with alpha - 1 antitrypsin deficiency  ( aatd )  with pulmonary involvement .
treatment with a drug used in the treatment of parkinson's disease .
use of a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
a therapy capable of relieving pain without the loss of consciousness or without producing anaesthesia .
treatment with a mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
use of a substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors .
treatment with a drug that alleviate anxiety ,  tension ,  and anxiety disorders ,  promote sedation ,  and have a calming effect without affecting clarity of consciousness or neurologic conditions .
therapy using an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function
treatment with an agent that control agitated psychotic behaviour ,  alleviate acute psychotic states ,  reduce psychotic symptoms ,  and exert a quieting effect .
treatment with a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
treatment with a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of virus diseases .
use of a compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a therapy utilizing a substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
treatment with medications to improve cognition and function for patients with dementia .
treatment with a drug used to prevent nausea or vomiting .
use of a drug to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
use of a drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
treatment with a drug that promotes coagulation .
use of an agent that prevents blood clotting .
use of a drug which antagonizes or impairs any mechanism leading to blood platelet aggregation ,  whether during the phases of activation and shape change or following the dense - granule release reaction and stimulation of the prostaglandin - thromboxane system .
use of a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
treatment with a drug that acts on an alpha - adrenergic receptor .
treatment with an agent that selectively binds to and activates alpha - adrenergic receptors .
treatment with an agent that binds to but does not activate alpha - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous alpha - adrenergic agonists .
treatment with a drug for prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
treatment with a drug that acts on beta - adrenergic receptors .
an agent that binds to but does not activate beta - adrenergic receptors thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous beta - adrenergic agonists .
treatment with renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system  ( raas )  inhibitors ,  a group of drugs that act by inhibiting the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system and include angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  inhibitors ,  angiotensin - receptor blockers  ( arbs )  ,  and direct renin inhibitors
a therapy using a drug to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
use of a drug that has principally analgesic ,  antipyretic and anti - inflammatory actions .
use of a narcotic or opioid substance ,  synthetic or semisynthetic agent producing profound analgesia ,  drowsiness ,  and changes in mood .
treatment with any member of a group of drugs that reversibly inhibit the propagation of signals along nerves .
an antibacterial substance with aminoglycoside structure .
use of a class of beta - lactam antibiotics differing from the penicillins in having a 6 - membered ,  rather than a 5 - membered ,  side ring .
use of an antibacterial substance with penicillin structure .
use of a drug with a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
use of an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related skeleton .
use of a class of sulfonamides whose members generally have bacteriostatic antibiotic properties .
treatment with a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the streptomyces genus of actinobacteria .
treatment with a drug that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
treatment with a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
use of a drug that inhibits sodium influx through cell membranes .
they are a group of drugs that block the normal breakdown of acetylcholine  ( ach )  into acetate and choline and thereby increase both the levels and duration of actions of acetylcholine found in the central and peripheral nervous system .
a drug that acts as an inhibitor that interferes with the action of monoamine oxidase  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .4 )  .
treatment with a medication that increases the extracellular level of the neurotransmitter serotonin  ( 5 - ht )  and norepinephrine by inhibiting their reuptake into the presynaptic cell .
treatment with mood - stimulating agents which contain a tricyclic structure and are used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
treatment with a therapeutic substance used to counteract the toxic action ( s )  of a specified xenobiotic .
medication given to prevent or deter a patient from using a substance .
treatment with a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
treatment with an anti - inflammatory drug that is not a steroid .
treatment with medications to alleviate symptoms and occurance of migraine headaches .
use of medication to treat migraine headache symptoms acutely .
use of medication to decrease the occurence of migraine headaches .
medication given by mouth or by injection to treat myasthenia gravis .
treatment with a drug to activate the parasympathetic nervous system  ( psns )  .
use of a treat or prevent infections caused by mycobacteria ,  a genus of actinobacteria .
use of a substance that kills or slows the growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis and is used in the treatment of tuberculosis .
use of a substance that suppresses mycobacterium leprae ,  ameliorates the clinical manifestations of leprosy ,  and / or reduces the incidence and severity of leprous reactions .
an antineoplastic agent that replaces hydrogen atom ( s )  in nucleophilic moieties with alky radical ( s )  ,  hindering proper function .
use of an agent or endogenous substance that inhibits the formation of capillaries from existing blood vessels .
treatment of cancer that utilizes antimetabolite substances to disrupt dna ,  rna ,  or protein synthesis .
treatment with an ec 1 .14 .14 .
use of any of a group of agents that includes retinol  ( vitamin a )  and related compounds with potential antineoplastic and / or chemopreventive activities .
substance intended to kill parasitic worms  ( helminths )  .
treatment with an antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
an agent used to as a treament of ectoparasitic infestations .
treatment with an antiviral drug used for treatment of cytomegalovirus infection .
treatment with a drug which can have different modes of action but which tend to be less likely than first generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements .
treatment with a drug which can have different modes of action but which tend to be more likely than second generation antipsychotics to cause extrapyramidal motor control disabilities such as body rigidity or parkinson's disease - type movements ;  such body movements can become permanent even after treatment has ceased .
use of a drug for the treatment and prophylaxis of infection with hepatitis virus ( es )  .
use of any drug that counters herpes .
treatment with an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the human immunodeficiency virus .
treatment with a drug which interferes with the binding ,  fusion and entry of an hiv virion to a human cell .
treatment with a substance structurally unlike a nucleoside molecule that is capable of inhibiting the function of a reverse transcriptase .
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors  ( nrtis )  block reverse transcriptase  ( an hiv enzyme )  .
use of an inhibitor of hiv protease ,  an enzyme required for production of proteins needed for viral assembly .
treatment with a drug used for the treatment and prophylaxis of infection with influenza viruses .
treatment with an antimanic drugs are agents used to treat bipolar disorders or mania associated with other affective disorders .
a synthetic or animal - derived form of insulin used in the treatment of diabetes mellitus .
treatment with drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
treatment with a class of central nervous system stimulants based on the structure of the parent amphetamine 1 - phenylpropan - 2 - amine .
use of non - stimulant  ( non - amphetamine )  medication for treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  ( adhd )  .
use of a drug to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
use of a drug for its effects on the gastrointestinal system ,  e .g .
h2 - receptor antagonists are the drugs that selectively bind to but do not activate histamine h2 receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of endogenous histamine .
any one of the substituted benzimidazole compounds with anti - ulcer activity .
use of a drug which are used to treat conditions of the reproductive organs and excretory system or urinary tract .
use of any agent that can alter hormone levels or modulate hormone effects .
use of a compound which stimulates anabolism and inhibits catabolism .
a drug which acts to modulates estrogenic activity in the body ,  either by modulating the amount of estrogen or by modulating the activity of whatever estrogen is present .
use of a drug to treat hyperparathyroidism by reducing the excessive production of parathyroid hormones .
use of a compound which inhibits or antagonises the biosynthesis or actions of androgens .
use of a drug to treat hyperthyroidism by reducing the excessive production of thyroid hormones .
use of a drug that induces ,  enhances ,  restores or suppresses the host's immune system ,  or an agent that utilizes or is derived from a component of the immune system .
use of a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
use of an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
the drug treatment of inflammatory bowel disease  ( ibd )  ,  which may include the use of anti - inflammatory agents and \ nagents that reduce the symptoms associated with ibd .
the salts or esters of salicylic acids ,  or salicylate esters of an organic acid .
use of a drug to treat eye conditions or eye diseases .
use of a drug which can be used to prevent or alleviate glaucoma ,  a disease in which the optic nerve is damaged ,  resulting in progressive ,  irreversible loss of vision .
treatment with a substance intended for administration either on the outer ear or into the auditory canal .
use of an agent that exerts a physiologic effect on any anatomic entity that is part of the respiratory tract and airways .
use of drugs that bind to but do not activate histamine receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of histamine or histamine agonists .
use of a drug designed to prevent leukotriene synthesis or activity by blocking binding at the receptor level .
use of an agent that causes an increase in the expansion of a bronchus or bronchial tubes .
treatment with a central nervous system depressant used to induce drowsiness or sleep or to reduce psychological excitement or anxiety .
use of a drug used to produce muscle relaxation  ( excepting neuromuscular blocking agents )  .
use of a substance for the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
removal of tissue from the head .
removal of tissue from the abdomen .
removal of tissue from the adipose tissue .
removal of tissue from the adrenal cortex .
removal of tissue from the adrenal gland .
removal of tissue from the anal canal .
removal of tissue from the anus .
removal of tissue from the aorta .
removal of tissue from the body of uterus .
removal of tissue from the bone element .
removal of tissue from the bone marrow .
removal of tissue from the bone tissue .
removal of tissue from the brain .
removal of tissue from the brainstem .
removal of tissue from the breast .
removal of tissue from the bronchus .
removal of tissue from the caecum .
removal of tissue from the cardiac ventricle .
removal of tissue from the cerebellum .
removal of tissue from the cerebral cortex .
removal of tissue from the chest wall .
removal of tissue from the chordate pharynx .
removal of tissue from the choroid plexus .
removal of tissue from the cochlea .
removal of tissue from the colon .
removal of tissue from the colorectum .
removal of tissue from the dermis .
removal of tissue from the diaphragm .
removal of tissue from the dorsal plus ventral thalamus .
removal of tissue from the duodenum .
removal of tissue from the endocardium .
removal of tissue from the endocrine pancreas .
removal of tissue from the endometrium .
removal of tissue from the esophagus .
removal of tissue from the eye .
removal of tissue from the fallopian tube .
removal of tissue from the frontal lobe .
removal of tissue from the gall bladder .
removal of tissue from the genitourinary system .
removal of tissue from the gonad .
removal of tissue from the heart .
removal of tissue from the hypopharynx .
removal of tissue from the hypothalamus .
removal of tissue from the intestine .
removal of tissue from the jaw skeleton .
removal of tissue from the lacrimal apparatus .
removal of tissue from the large intestine .
removal of tissue from the larynx .
removal of tissue from the limb .
removal of tissue from the lip .
removal of tissue from the liver .
removal of tissue from the lower respiratory tract .
removal of tissue from the lower urinary tract .
removal of tissue from the lumbar region of vertebral column .
removal of tissue from the lung .
removal of tissue from the lymph node .
removal of tissue from the lymphatic part of lymphoid system .
removal of tissue from the mammalian vulva .
removal of tissue from the medulla oblongata .
removal of tissue from the mouth .
removal of tissue from the muscle organ .
removal of tissue from the muscle tissue .
removal of tissue from the nasolacrimal duct .
removal of tissue from the nasopharynx .
removal of tissue from the neck .
removal of tissue from the ovary .
removal of tissue from the pancreas .
removal of tissue from the penis .
removal of tissue from the perianal skin .
removal of tissue from the peritoneum .
removal of tissue from the pituitary gland .
removal of tissue from the pleura .
removal of tissue from the rectum .
removal of tissue from the retina .
removal of tissue from the saliva - secreting gland .
removal of tissue from the scrotum .
removal of tissue from the sebaceous gland .
removal of tissue from the small intestine .
removal of tissue from the spinal cord .
removal of tissue from the spleen .
removal of tissue from the stomach .
removal of tissue from the subglottis .
removal of tissue from the submandibular gland .
removal of tissue from the testis .
removal of tissue from the thymus .
removal of tissue from the thyroid gland .
removal of tissue from the tongue .
removal of tissue from the tonsil .
removal of tissue from the trachea .
removal of tissue from the upper digestive tract .
removal of tissue from the upper respiratory tract .
removal of tissue from the ureter .
removal of tissue from the urethra .
removal of tissue from the urinary bladder .
removal of tissue from the uterine cervix .
removal of tissue from the vagina .
removal of tissue from the vermiform appendix .
removal of tissue from the zone of skin .
imaging that uses radiofrequency waves and a strong magnetic field rather than x - rays to provide amazingly clear and detailed pictures of internal organs and tissues .
a medical examination performed using of magnetic resonance imaging to image the head .
a medical examination performed using of magnetic resonance imaging to image the abdomen .
a medical examination performed using of magnetic resonance imaging to image the brain .
a medical examination performed using of magnetic resonance imaging to image the chest .
radiation therapy in which high - energy beams are delivered to the tumor from outside of the body .
a type of radiation therapy in which radioactive material is placed inside the body ,  into a tumor or body cavity .
a medical examination performed using of magnetic resonance imaging to image the breast .
use of an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic that contains a beta - lactam ring .
treatment with a pharmaceutical agent that inhibits the movement of calcium across through calcium channels in the cell membrane ,  preventing or decreasing the amount of calcium able to enter the cell .
treatment with  a drug that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
use of medication for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  ( adhd )  .
use of stimulant medication  ( usually amphetamines )  for treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  ( adhd )  .
treatment with a medication that increases the extracellular level of the neurotransmitter serotonin  ( 5 - ht )  by inhibiting its reuptake into the presynaptic cell .
treatment with colony - stimulating factors  ( csf )  can help the blood - forming tissue recover from the effects of chemotherapy and radiation therapy .
use of a recombinant therapeutic agent which is chemically identical to or similar to the endogenous glycoprotein erythropoietin  ( epo )  .
use of a drug that inhibits erythropoietin ,  a glycoprotein hormone that controls erythropoiesis  ( red blood cell production )  .
a drug that prevent fibrinolysis or lysis of a blood clot or thrombus .
a synthetic analogue of vasopressin in which 3 - mercaptopropionic acid replaces the cysteine residue at position 1 and d - arginine replaces the residue at position 8 .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of a structure or organ .
surgical removal  ( cutting out or off )  without replacement of all of a body part or structure .
taking or cutting out solid matter from a body part .
a surgical procedure by which tissue or an organ  ( usually containing a tumor )  is removed without rupture from a specific anatomic site .
a surgical procedure that places something in the human body .
the removal of material from the surface of an object by vaporization ,  chipping ,  or other erosive process .
removal ,  separation ,  detachment ,  extirpation ,  or eradication of a body part ,  pathway ,  or function by light amplification by stimulated emission of radiation .
removal ,  separation ,  detachment ,  extirpation ,  or eradication of a body part ,  pathway ,  or function by chemical means .
the use of extreme cold to damage or destroy a body part ,  pathway ,  or function .
thermal ablation refers to the destruction of tissue by extreme hyperthermia or hypothermia .
hydrotherapy is the external or internal use of water in any of its forms  ( water ,  ice ,  steam )  for health promotion or treatment of various diseases with various temperatures ,  pressure ,  duration ,  and site .
thermal hydrotherapy uses external or internal use of water in any of its forms  ( water ,  ice ,  steam )  at temperatures above or below room temperature for health promotion or treatment of various diseases with various temperatures ,  pressure ,  duration ,  and site .
washing out a hollow organ by flushing with a fluid .
therapy where a substantial part of the body is immersed in warm water to produce a variety of therapeutic effects .
therapy where a substantial part of the body is immersed in cold water to produce a variety of therapeutic effects .
a form of treatment where a limb or significant portion of the body is immersed in hot water immediately followed by the immersion into cold water .
a minimally - invasive procedure that permits sampling of breast ductal fluids for cytopathologic analysis .
washing out the bronchi and alveoli by flushing with a fluid .
a minimally invasive procedure that permits sampling of peritoneal fluid for cytopathologic analysis .
the process in which the nasal cavity is washed to flush out mucus and debrise from the nose and sinuses with water or saline .
avoid the administration or use of therapeutic procedure .
avoid the administration or use of diagnostic procedure .
avoid the administration or use of preventative therapeutics .
the implantation of a piece of mechanical or electronic equipment that is useful for prevention ,  diagnosis ,  monitoring ,  or treatment of disease or other conditions .
implantation of a battery - powered device that is placed under the skin  ( typically in the left upper chest )  with electrode wires that lead into the heart  ( typically lodging in the apex or septum of the right ventricle )  .
the resection or complete surgical removal of a nerve .
left cardiac sympathetic denervation  ( lcsd )  is a surgical antiadrenergic intervention with a strong antiarrhythmic effect .
evaluation with a surgeon who focuses on the preservation ,  investigation and restoration of the form and function of the extremities ,  spine and associated structures by medical ,  surgical and physical means .
a surgical procedure to treat and correct deformities ,  diseases ,  and injuries to the skeletal system ,  its articulations ,  and associated structures .
orthotic services provide prescription insoles ,  braces ,  splints ,  callipers ,  footwear ,  spinal jackets and helmets which help people recover from or avoid injury ,  or live with lifelong conditions .
the recommendation of the use of an orthosis or multiple orthoses ,  which are externally applied device used to modify the structural and functional characteristics of the neuromuscular and skeletal system .
a procedure where a healthcare provider reviews a patient's medical history ,  examines the patient ,  and makes recommendations as to care and treatment .
increase in the longest dimension of a bone to correct anatomical deficiencies ,  congenital ,  traumatic ,  or as a result of disease .
a bone fixation technique using an external fixator for lengthening limbs ,  correcting pseudarthroses and other deformities ,  and assisting the healing of otherwise hopeless traumatic or pathological fractures and infections ,  such as chronic osteomyelitis .
bone lengthening by gradual mechanical distraction .
a measurement performed in a clinical setting using clinician's observations and instrument data to inform patient care and research .
an assessment of body temperature .
the act of assessing an individual's current temperature ,  heart rate ,  respiratory rate ,  pulse oxygenation ,  and blood pressure .
an assessment of the number of heartbeats per unit time ,  usually expressed as beats per minute .
assessment and recording of arterial pulses in any of a number of locations .
the rate of breathing  ( inhalation and exhalation )  measured within in a unit time ,  usually expressed as breaths per minute .
procedure to evaluate the structure and / or function of the cardiovascular system .
measurement of the pressure on the walls of the vessels as blood moves around the body .
monitoring blood pressure with a sphygmomanometer and a stethoscope to hear blood flow .
a method for monitoring blood pressure without requiring instruments introduced into the body .
an intra - arterial method of monitoring blood pressure .
any form of treatment that acts to improve or assist with respiratory function .
a set of maneuvers or medical procedures performed to prevent and relieve airway obstruction .
removal of an endotracheal tube from the patient .
a procedure involving placement of a tube into the trachea through the mouth or nose in order to provide a patient with oxygen and anesthesia .
any method of artificial breathing that employs mechanical or non - mechanical means to force the air into and out of the lungs .
surgical formation of an opening into the trachea through the neck ,  or the opening so created .
a manual method for maintaining oxygenation using a mask .
techniques for administering artificial respiration without the need for intratracheal intubation .
ventilatory support system using frequencies from 60 - 900 cycles / min or more .
a technique of mechanical ventilation in which the lungs are insufflated with an oxygenated perfluorochemical liquid rather than an oxygen - containing gas mixture .
a method of mechanical ventilation in which pressure is maintained to increase the volume of gas remaining in the lungs at the end of expiration ,  thus reducing the shunting of blood through the lungs and improving gas exchange .
assisted ventilation by applying intermittent subatmospheric pressure around the thorax ,  abdomen ,  or airway and periodically expand the chest wall and inflate the lungs .
a form of non - invasive mechanical pressure support ventilation that uses a time - cycled change of the applied positive airway pressure level to support spontaneous breathing activity .
a form of non - invasive mechanical pressure support ventilation that uses a continuous positive airway pressure level to support spontaneous breathing activity .
a rehabilitation therapy for removal of copious mucus secretion from the lung of patients with diseases .
a respiratory support system used to remove mucus and clear airway by oscillating pressure on the chest .
application of a life support system that circulates the blood through an oxygenating system ,  which may consist of a pump ,  a membrane oxygenator ,  and a heat exchanger .
chest physical therapy  ( cpt or chest pt )  is an airway clearance technique  ( act )  to drain the lungs ,  and may include percussion  ( clapping )  ,  vibration ,  deep breathing ,  and huffing or coughing .
the insertion of a cannula or tube into a hollow body organ .
the removal of a previously inserted tube from a hollow organ or passageway ,  often from the airway .
use of medical ultrasonography in pregnancy where sound waves are used to create a real - time visual image of the developing fetus in the uterus .
a clinical recommendation to avoid or refrain from certain behaviors in order to maintain health or ameliorate symptoms .
an appraisal or evaluation of a patient's condition by a clinician that is based on a physical exam ,  medical history ,  and the patient's account of symptoms .
a systemic evaluation of the body and its functions using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  percussion and auscultation .
a test or diagnostic examination to assess the health status and well being of the fetus .
testing of fetal dna during pregnancy to determine if the fetus has chromosomal aberrations ,  fetal aneuploidy ,  or other detectable genetic disorders .
a genetic test to whether a healthy person harbors a recessive mutation in one of their copies of a gene or genes .
a test that analyzes small fragments of dna that are circulating in a pregnant womans blood to determine the risk that the fetus will be born with genetic abnormalities .
a diverse set of techniques used to identify the molecular basis of genetic disease prenatally .
a diverse set of techniques used to identify the molecular basis of genetic disease .
a prenatal diagnostic procedure in which a small sample of amniotic fluid is removed from the uterus by a needle inserted into the abdomen .
procedure using suction ,  usually with a thin needle and syringe ,  to remove bodily fluid or tissue .
a prenatal test in which a sample of chorionic villi is removed from the placenta for testing .
a procedure conducted during pregnancy for the presence of gardnerella vaginalis ,  ureaplasma urealyticum ,  mycoplasma hominis ,  mobiluncus ,  prevotella and anaerobic bacteria .
a test for the presence of fetal fibronectin in the cervico - vaginal area that is used to predict preterm birth .
screening with a swab from the vaginal and rectal areas in late pregnancy to test for the presence of group b streptococcal infection .
an ultrasonic examination of the fetus in the late first trimester to measure the clear space at the back of the fetal neck to assess risk of genetic or cardiac abnormalities .
a screening measurement in which the maternal blood levels of alpha - fetoprotein ,  unconjugated estriol ,  human chorionic gonadotrophin and inhibin a are calculated .
the determination of the number of eosinophils in a blood sample .
the determination of the amount of granulocytes present in a sample .
the determination of the absolute number of basophils in a blood sample .
the determination of the number of lymphocytes in a blood sample .
a procedure by which biological material is obtained from a subject for testing ,  diagnostic ,  treatment ,  or research purposes .
measuring a person's own body temperature usually at home using any of a number of types of thermometers .
a characteristic that can be objectively measured and serves as an indicator for the inflammatory response .
assay based assessment of a serum sample for detection and concentration  ( mg / l )  c - reactive protein .
detection of circultating interleukin - 6 ,  which stimulates the inflammatory and auto - immune processes in many diseases .
a chemokine that can be objectively measured and serves as an indicator for the inflammatory response .
detection of interleukin - 1 beta levels ,  an il - 1 cytokine family protein ,  secreted by macrophages and a mediator of inflammatory response .
detection of interleukin - 1 alpha ,  a mediator of the inflammatory response .
detection of interleukin - 2 ,  a mediator of inflammatory response .
detection of interleukin - 8 levels ,  a mediator of inflammatory response .
detection of interleukin - 12 levels ,  an inflammatory cytokine .
detection of interferon - gamma ,  a cytokine that indicates an inflammatory response .
detection of interleukin - 4 ,  a cytokine identified as a inflammation suppressant .
detection of interleukin - 5 ,  a cytokine identified as a inflammation suppressant .
detection of interleukin - 10 ,  a cytokine identified as a inflammation suppressant .
detection of itumor necrosis factor - beta  ( tnf - beta )  ,  a cytokine identified as a inflammation suppressant .
detection of serum levels of amyloid a  ( saa )  in response to inflamation .
a clinical laboratory procedure designed for the quantification of an organic or inorganic chemical within a biological specimen required for diagnostics or monitoring of treatments .
a quantitative measurement for assessing the amount of glucose present in a blood sample .
glucose plasma concentration  ( gpc )  measurement is an essential diagnostic modality for different types of carbohydrate metabolism derangements including diabetes mellitus .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of glucose present in a sample of blood ,  obtained from a source that has abstained from nutrition ,  typically at least 8 hours prior to the sample collection time .
a technique to collect sputum by inhaling hypertonic saline through an oxygen mask in order to induce sputum .
a method of examining structures within the body by scanning them with x rays and using a computer to construct a series of cross - sectional scans along a single axis .
use of a drug that lower the level of glucose in the blood .
treatment of retroviral infections with medications that target the virus directly ,  limiting the ability of infected cells to produce new virus particles .
the process of gathering information regarding a person's medical history .
determination if a patient's background or demographic characteristics makes the patient susceptible to disease .
determination if patient's travel history may impact current health .
a questionaire designed to determine if patient's travel history may impact current health .
determination if the patient may have been exposed to something which would impact the health of the patient .
a test  that measures the amount of oxygen and carbon dioxide in the blood .
the determination of the unmeasured anions  ( those other than the chloride and bicarbonate anions )  present in a sample .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of calcium present in a sample ,  usually serum or urine .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of an electrolyte present in urine or serum .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of an electrolyte present in serum .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of an electrolyte present in urine .
any laboratory procedure for growing microorganisms .
a type of mechanical ventilation using endotracheal intubation .
a time - triggered ,  pressure - limited ,  inverse - ratio mode of ventilation that provides continuous distending airway pressure with intermittent release phases
a technique that detects a particular nucleic acid sequence in order to identify a pathogen  ( organism or virus )  in blood ,  tissue ,  urine ,  or other bodily fluids .
a  tecnique that uses an amplification of nucleic acids  to detect a pathogen .
a type of nucleic acid amplification test in which sample dna is exposed to a single temperature in the presence of multiple sets of primers and a polymerase with replication and high strand displacement activity .
a technique that detects a particular dna sequence in order to identify a pathogen  ( organism or virus )  in blood ,  tissue ,  urine ,  or other bodily fluids .
a technique that detects a particular rna sequence in order to identify a pathogen  ( organism or virus )  in blood ,  tissue ,  urine ,  or other bodily fluids .
a clinical assay that amplifies and quantifies a specific dna molecule based on in tissue ,  blood ,  sputum ,  urine ,  or any other bodily fluid to detect the presence of a pathogen .
a method to measure very small amounts of rna transcripts as cdna targets from tissue ,  blood ,  sputum or other body fluids .
a procedure producing an image on a radiosensitive surface by x - ray radiation that has penetrated and passed through a structure in order to diagnose or treat a patient .
the process of taking a thorough history and physical exam to determine if a patient has been exposed to an infectious disease .
the administration of oxygen to an individual ,  usually to aid in respiration by means of a mask .
the administration of oxygen to an individual ,  usually to aid in respiration by means of a nasal cannula .
therapy using a substance used in the treatment of hypotension .
treatments that substitute for the blood - filtering function of the kidneys .
a procedure to remove toxic substances from the blood that is used in patients with end - stage chronic kidney disease or acute kidney failure .
a therapeutic procedure used in patients with kidney failure .
a form of dialysis that uses the peritoneum as a membrane across which the infused diasylate exchanges nutrients for waste products that are removed when the fluid is exchanged .
a laboratory procedure that tests the function of an endocrine organ and measures the amount of a hormone present in a sample .
a term that refers to a chemistry test measuring a specific protein or enzyme in the peripheral blood or body fluid .
the determination of the amount of the procalcitonin in a sample .
a quantification of a fibrin degradation product in blood used in the diagnosis of thrombosis .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of phosphate present in a sample of serum .
testing blood serum for the presence of specifc antibody or antibodies to a specific antigen .
a highly sensitive technique for detecting and measuring antigens or antibodies in a solution ;  the solution is run over a surface to which immobilized antibodies specific to the substance have been attached ,  and if the substance is present ,  it will bind to the antibody layer ,  and its presence is verified and visualized with an application of antibodies that have been tagged in some way .
a type of lateral flow assay that qualitatively detecst igg and igm antibodies of an infectious disease within human serum ,  plasma or whole blood in vitro .
a procedure using a paper - based platform for the detection and quantification of analytes in complex mixtures ,  where the sample is placed on a test device for clinical use .
any of several immunoassay methods that use an enzyme covalently linked to an antigen or antibody as a label and are typically used for diagnostics or disease progression .
a technique for analyzing or identifying proteins immobilized on a filter by complementary reaction with specific antibodies .
the measurement of the ratio of oxygenated hemoglobin to total hemoglobin in the blood .
a non - invasive method that provides estimates of arterial oxyhemoglobin saturation by utilizing selected wavelengths of light to determine the saturation of oxyhemoglobin .
a therapy of replenishing bodily fluid throughseating ,  bleeding ,  fluid shifts or other pathological processes ,  such as sepsis .
prone positioning improves ventilation - perfusion matching  ( transferring delivered oxygen into the bloodstream more efficiently )  and keeps alveolar units open and evenly distributed at end - expiration  ( improving gas exchange and preventing ventilator - induced lung injury )  .
a procedure of surgical placement of a catheter ,  which lumen is usually occupied by a trocar ,  into the central vein  ( internal jugular ,  subclavian ,  and femoral often used )  or veins ,  to provide vascular access for measurement of hemodynamic variables that cannot be measured accurately by noninvasive means .
a thin catheter inserted into an artery to monitor blood pressure directly and obtain blood samples .
allows delivery of positive - pressure ventilation with a tight - fitting nasal or facial mask that is attached to a continuous positive airway pressure  ( cpap )  or a bilevel positive airway pressure  ( bipap )  machine .
nutrition intervention for nutrition counseling is a supportive process ,  characterized by a collaborative counselorpatient / client relationship to establish food ,  nutrition and physical activity priorities ,  goals ,  and individualized action plans that acknowledge and foster responsibility for self - care to treat an existing condition and promote health .
an in - depth evaluation of an individual's food and nutrient intake ,  lifestyle ,  and medical history designed to help the individual either maintain their health status or attain a healthier status .
a therapy utilizing an inhaled substance that produces loss of consciousness .
a therapy utilizing an intravenous substance that produces loss of consciousness .
a superficial loss of sensation in conjunctiva ,  mucous membranes ,  or skin ,  produced by direct application of local anesthetic solutions ,  ointments ,  gels or sprays .
use of an agent that modulates the physiologic angiogenesis process .
use of an agent that induces or stimulates the physiologic angiogenesis process .
use of a compound that promotes the growth of new blood vessels from pre - existing vessels .
a therapy used to neutralise stomach acidity .
a therapy used to treat or ameliorate peptic ulcer or irritation of the gastrointestinal tract .
treatment of allergic reactions with medications .
usage of a drug to treat asthma .
treatment with a drug which acts to reduce estrogenic activity in the body ,  either by reducing the amount of estrogen or by reducing the activity of whatever estrogen is present .
use of a compound which can be used to treat or alleviate the symptoms of dyskinesia .
treatment with an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the herpes simplex virus .
treatment with an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the herpes simplex virus - 1 .
treatment with an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the herpes simplex virus - 2 .
use of a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland as a type of anti - inflammatory treatment .
treatment to induce vomiting and nausea usually administered in emergency situations after ingestion of a toxin .
treatment with a drug to alleviate rheumatiod arthritis and its symptoms .
use of an inhibitor that interferes with the action of enzyme acetylcholinesterase ,  which helps breaking down of acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid
treatment that uses drugs to stop the growth of cancer cells ,  either by killing the cells or by stopping them from dividing .
the use of synthetic or naturally - occurring chemicals for the treatment of diseases .
a therapy using a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
use of a drug which increases blood glucose level .
treatment with a cardiovascular drug that prevents atherogenesis ,  the accumulation of lipid - containing plaques on the innermost layers of the arteries .
treatment with a cardiovascular drug that prevents atherosclerosis , a disease in which the inside of an artery narrows due to the build up of plaque .
use of a drug that inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii .
treatment with a class of agents that act by selectively inhibiting angiotensin ii receptor activation in the renin - angiotensin - aldosterone system .
use of a drug that inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  1 ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii .
use of a drug that inhibits angiotensin - converting enzyme  ( ace )  2 ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin i to angiotensin ii .
use of a drug that selectively binds to and inhibits metabotropic glutamate receptors .
use of a drug that modulates the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
use of a drug that selectively binds to and regulates metabotropic glutamate receptors  ( mglur )  .
use of a drug that activates the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
use of a drug that selectively binds to and activates ampa receptors .
use of a drug that selectively binds to and inhibits ampa receptors .
an evaluation by healthcare provider who is a specialist in a particular medical area .
an  evaluation by an allergist - immunologist who diagnoses and manages disorders involving immune system conditions such as asthma ,  anaphylaxis ,  rhinitis and eczema as well as adverse reactions to drugs ,  foods and insect stings .
an evaluation by a physician who provides anesthesia for patients undergoing surgical ,  obstetric ,  diagnostic or therapeutic procedures while monitoring the patient's condition and supporting vital organ functions .
an evaluation by an anesthesiologist who specializes in pediatric anesthesiology .
an evaluation by a colon and rectal surgeon who diagnoses and treats various diseases of the small intestine ,  colon ,  rectum ,  anal canal and perianal area including the organs and tissues related with primary intestinal diseases  ( liver ,  urinary and female reproductive system )  .
an evaluation by a physician with training and expertise in the diagnosis and medical / surgical management of diseases of the skin ,  hair and nails ,  and mucous membranes .
an evaulation by a physician who specializes in immediate decision making and action necessary to prevent death or any further disability both in the pre - hospital setting by directing emergency medical technicians and in the emergency department .
an evaluation by a physician who provides front - line health care that is accessible ,  high quality ,  comprehensive and continuous over time for people of all ages ,  life stages ,  backgrounds and conditions .
an evaluation by a physician with special knowledge of the aging process and special skills in the diagnostic ,  therapeutic ,  preventive and rehabilitative aspects of illness in the elderly .
an evaluation by a physician who specializes in hospice and palliative medicine who provides care to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life - limiting illnesses .
an evaluation by a physician who diagnoses and treats patients experiencing problems with acute or chronic pain ,  or pain related to cancer ,  in both hospital and outpatient settings and coordinates care needs with other specialists .
an evaluation a specialist focuses on preventing ,  diagnosing ,  and treating injuries related to participating in sports and / or exercise .
an evaluation with a specialist who has expertise in the diagnosis and management of clinical conditions that occur during sleep ,  that disturb sleep ,  or that are affected by disturbances in the wake - sleep cycle .
an evalutation by a personal physician who provides long - term ,  comprehensive care in the office and in the hospital ,  managing both common and complex illnesses of adolescents ,  adults and the elderly .
an evaluation with a multidisciplinary health care specialist trained in the unique physical ,  psychological and social characteristics of adolescents ,  their health care problems and needs .
an evaluation by a internist who specializes in diseases of the heart and blood vessels and manages complex cardiac conditions ,  such as heart attacks and life - threatening ,  abnormal heartbeat rhythms .
an evaluation by a specialist with who specializes in intricate technical procedures to evaluate heart rhythms and determine appropriate treatment .
an evaluation with an internist who specializes in the diagnosis and management of disorders of hormones and their actions ,  metabolic disorders ,  and neoplasia of the endocrine glands .
an evaluation with an internist who specializes in diagnosis and treatment of diseases of the digestive organs including the stomach ,  bowels ,  liver and gallbladder .
an evaluation by an internist with additional training who specializes in diseases of the blood ,  spleen and lymph .
an evaluation by an internist who deals with infectious diseases of all types and in all organ systems .
an evaluation by an internist who specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of all types of cancer and other benign and malignant tumors .
an evaluation by an internist who treats disorders of the kidney ,  high blood pressure ,  fluid and mineral balance ,  and dialysis of body wastes when the kidneys do not function .
an evaluation by an internist who treats diseases of the lungs and airways .
an evaulation by an internist who treats diseases of joints ,  muscle ,  bones and tendons .
an evaluation with a specialist who directs and interprets a wide range of specialized ,  laboratory biochemical genetic analyses relevant to the diagnosis and management of inherited metabolic disorders .
an evaluation with a specialist who provides comprehensive diagnostic ,  management ,  therapeutic ,  and counseling services for individuals and families at risk for clinical disorders with a genetic basis .
an evaluation or consultation by a diplomate certified in laboratory genetics and genomics who directs and interprets both clinical cytogenetic and molecular genetic analyses relevant to the diagnosis and management of human genetic disease .
evaluation by this specialist provides care for adult and pediatric patients in the treatment of pain or pathological processes that may modify the function or activity of the central nervous system  ( e .g . ,  brain ,  hypophysis ,  and spinal cord )  ,  the peripheral nervous system  ( e .g . ,  cranial ,  spinal ,  and peripheral nerves )  ,  the autonomic nervous system ,  the supporting structures of these systems  ( e .g . ,  meninges ,  skull & skull base ,  and vertebral column )  ,  and their vascular supply  ( e .g . ,  intracranial ,  extracranial ,  and spinal vasculature )  .
an evaluation by a specialist that uses molecular tracers  ( usually labeled with radioactive atoms )  for diagnosis and therapy .
an evaluation with a specialist who focuses on the health of women before ,  during and after childbearing years ,  diagnosing and treating conditions of the reproductive system and associated disorders .
an evaluation by a specialist focused on the medical and surgical care of the eyes .
an evaluation by a specialist who has expertise in the surgical and medical care for all structures of the musculoskeletal system directly affected by participation in sporting activity .
an evaluation by a specialist with expertise in the surgical ,  medical and rehabilitative care of patients with diseases ,  injuries ,  and disorders affecting the hand ,  wrist and forearm .
an evaluation by a specialist who provides medical and / or surgical therapy or prevention of diseases ,  allergies ,  neoplasms ,  deformities ,  disorders and / or injuries of the ears ,  nose ,  sinuses ,  throat ,  respiratory and upper alimentary systems ,  face ,  jaws and the other head and neck systems .
an evaluation by a specialist concerned with the physical ,  emotional ,  and social health of children from birth to young adulthood .
an evaluation with a specialist who possesses special skills ,  training and experience to foster understanding and promotion of optimal development of children and families through research ,  education ,  clinical care and advocacy efforts .
an evaluation by a specialist who provides expert care to infants ,  children and adolescents who have diseases that result from an abnormality in the endocrine glands  ( glands which secrete hormones )  .
evaluation by a specialist who provides comprehensive care to patients with cardiovascular problems .
evaluation by a specialist who treats patients with disorders or disabilities in the muscles ,  bones ,  and nervous system ,  including neck or back pain ,  sports and work injuries ,  stroke ,  brain injury ,  spinal cord injury ,  spasticity ,  and any other disability or disorder that affects function .
an evaluation with a specialist who focuses on the repair ,  reconstruction or replacement of physical defects of form or function involving the skin ,  musculoskeletal system ,  craniomaxillofacial structures ,  hand ,  extremities ,  breast and trunk and external genitalia or cosmetic enhancement of these areas of the body .
evaluation by a physician who specializes in the evaluation and treatment of mental ,  addictive and emotional disorders .
evaluation by a physician who specializes in the evaluation and treatment of mental ,  addictive and emotional disorders in children and adolescence .
an evaluation a specialist who treats all types of disease or impaired function of the brain ,  spinal cord ,  peripheral nerves ,  muscles and autonomic nervous system ,  as well as the blood vessels that relate to these structures .
evaluation with a specialist who diagnose and treat all types of disease or impaired function of the brain ,  spinal cord ,  peripheral nerves ,  muscles and autonomic nervous system ,  as well as the blood vessels that relate to these structures in infants ,  children ,  and adolescents .
evaluation by a specialist who uses imaging methodologies to diagnose and manage patients and provide therapeutic options .
evaluation by an expert in the diagnosis and care of patients with diseases and disorders affecting the abdomen ,  digestive tract ,  endocrine system ,  breast ,  skin and blood vessels .
an evaluation by a specialist who performs preoperative ,  operative ,  and postoperative management of patients with disorders of the arterial ,  venous and lymphatic systems ,  excluding vessels of the brain and the heart .
evaluation by a specialist who focuses on the operative ,  perioperative ,  and surgical critical care of patients with acquired and congenital pathologic conditions within the chest .
an evaluation by a specialist that focuses on diagnosing and treating disorders of the urinary tracts of males and females ,  and on the reproductive system of males .
assessment by a specialist who has expertise in the diagnosis and preoperative ,  operative ,  and postoperative management of patient care .
a procedure ,  also known as sonohysterography or saline infusion sonography ,  using a minimally invasive ultrasound technique to view the inside of the uterus .
an invasive procedure in which sound waves  ( called ultrasound )  are bounced off of vascular tissues from within the vessel and the echoes produce a picture  ( sonogram )  .
a technique in which sound waves are sent out by an ultrasound probe that has been inserted in the vagina and a computer uses the ultrasound echoes to create an image of the female genital tract .
a procedure that uses sound waves to create a video image of the pelvic organs and tissues .
an evaluation or treatment by a professional who provides a range of diagnostic ,  technical ,  therapeutic ,  and support services in connection with health care .
an evaluation or assessment by a health professional trained to help people who are ill or disabled learn to manage their daily activities .
an assessment by a professional who works to prevent ,  assess ,  diagnose ,  and treat speech ,  language ,  social communication ,  congnitive - communication ,  and swallowing disorders .
an assessment by a trained non - medical health professional who specializes in the identification ,  testing ,  habilitation and rehabilitation of hearing loss and other auditory and balance disorders .
a therapy derived from fibric acid that lowers serum ldl cholesterol levels by activating peroxisome proliferator activated receptor alpha  ( ppara )  .
therapy using a highly charged polymeric agent to bind bile acids in the gastrointestinal tract and prevent their reabsorption from the gut .
treatment with an agent that works through ,  or mimics ,  the action of niacin .
treatment with a diuretic agent that produces diuresis without increasing potassium excretion .
treatment with a benzothiadiazide derivative or other thiazide - like agent with diuretic and anti - hypertensive activity .
treatment with sulfonamide urea derivatives with antihyperglycemic activity .
treatment with estrogens or estrogen / progesterone after menopause or ovariectomy to prevent pathological effects of decreased estrogen production .
techniques for analysis of chromosomal and subchromosomal properties and structures ,  such as those to diagnose ,  classify ,  screen for ,  or manage genetic diseases and abnormalities .
a test to detect chromosomal breakage or aberrations  ( breaks ,  gaps ,  rearrangements ,  radials ,  exchanges ,  endoreduplications )  in peripheral blood cells after culture with a t - cell mitogen and a dna clastogenic  ( cross - linking )  agent ,  such as diepoxybutane  ( deb )  or mitomycin c  ( mmc )  .
transfer of multipotent hematopoietic stem cells ,  usually derived from bone marrow ,  peripheral blood ,  or umbilical cord blood into the body .
the transplantation of fecal bacteria ,  via enema ,  colonoscopy ,  or other method ,  from a healthy individual to a recipient .
the removal of t - cells from the donor's hematopoietic stem cell specimen prior to its transfusion into the recipient .
administration of high doses of chemotherapy or radiation therapy ,  as well as immunosuppressive therapy ,  to a transplant recipient prior to a bone marrow or hematopoietic stem cell transplant .
the systematic collection ,  analysis ,  and interpretation of health data on an ongoing basis .
removal of a small amount of liquid bone marrow through a needle .
the pathologic analysis of samples of bone marrow obtained by bone marrow biopsy and bone marrow aspiration .
the determination of the amount of degree ,  quality or condition of cells present in a sample .
the sampling and analysis of non - solid biological tissue often through rapid and non - invasive methods ,  which allows the assessment in real - time of the evolving landscape of cancer .
the injection of whole blood or a blood component directly into the bloodstream .
any form of treatment that is introduced into the body via a blood vessel ,  a muscle ,  or the spinal cord .
avoid sexual intercourse without the use of precautions to prevent conception or the transmission of sexually transmitted diseases .
vaccination against human papillomavirus infection .
a type of mri that takes a series of images of an organ in quick succession and statistically analyzes the differences between the images .
gene therapy involves the use of nucleic acids  ( dna or rna )  for the treatment ,  cure or prevention of human disorders .
the goal of immunotherapy is to induce anti - disease  ( usually tumor )  responses by reprogramming and augmenting immune surveillance ,  and reducing immune suppression .
an agent that binds to but does not activate an opioid receptor thereby blocking the actions of endogenous or exogenous opioid receptor agonists .
the determination of the number of red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets in a blood sample .
the determination of the number of erythrocytes in a blood sample .
the determination of the number of platelets in a blood sample ,  usually expressed as platelets per cubic millimeter  ( cmm )  of whole blood .
a test to determine the number of leukocytes in a sample of blood .
avoid the administration or use of aerobic exercise therapy .
inoculating an individual with either killed or live agents to prevent contraction of a disease .
nutrition intake is the process of taking in of nutrients ,  especially by eating or drinking ,  considered in relation to the bodys dietary needs .
a vitamin enriched supplement containing higher doses for specific nutrients such as folic acid ,  intended for women before ,  during and after pregnancy and also during their lactating phase .
a therapy utilizing a substance that produces loss of consciousness .
use of a drug or therapy to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
treatment with a traditional grouping of drugs said to have a soothing or calming effect on mood ,  thought or behaviour .
therapy using any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects adrenergic signal transduction .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of pharyngeal tonsil .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of adrenal gland .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of tooth root .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of vermiform appendix .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of skeletal joint .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of ear .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of synovial bursa .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of cardia of stomach .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of head .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of uterine cervix .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of gall bladder .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of optic choroid .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of clitoris .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of colon .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of cranium .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of urinary bladder .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of bony vertebral centrum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of intervertebral disk .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of digestive tract diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of thyroid diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of hepatic diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of duodenum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of sympathetic nerve trunk .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of esophagus .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of stomach .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of tongue .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of gonad .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of liver .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of pituitary gland .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of uterus .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of iris .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of cornea .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of vertebra .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of larynx .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of lymph node .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of breast .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of kidney .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of nerve .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of ovary .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of testis .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of bone tissue .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of pancreas .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of panniculus adiposus .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of parathyroid gland .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of pineal body .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of lung .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of skin of prepuce of penis .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of fallopian tube .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of spleen .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of synovial membrane of synovial joint .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of thymus .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of thyroid gland .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of palatine tonsil .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of eye trabecular meshwork .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of vagina .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of vas deferens .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of vitreous humor .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of mammalian vulva .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of penis .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of pulmonary bulla .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of hallux valgus .
surgical removal of an abnormal pouch of the lining of the small intestine  ( bowel )  .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of cardiac diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of esophageal diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of gastric diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of renal diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of bladder diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of urethral diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of fibrous cardiac diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of muscular cardiac diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of spinal meningeal diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of coronary sinus diverticulum .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of thromboembolism .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of pulmonary embolism .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of arterial calcification .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of neoplasm of the breast .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of uterine leiomyoma .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of abnormal thrombosis .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of neoplasm .
the surgical removal  ( cutting out )  of part or all of gland .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid abnormal phenotypes .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid ketosis .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid diabetes .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid a febrile state .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid seizures .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid hypotension .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid hyperglycemia .
a medical requirement or recommendation to avoid weight loss
removal of tissue from the kidney .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the kidney .
addition of potassium atom to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
avoid the administration or use of blood transfusion .
avoid the administration or use of radiograph imaging procedure .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding cannabis consumption .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding tobacco consumption .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding smoking behavior .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding consumption of an addictive substance .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding agitation behavior .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding fear / anxiety related behavior .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding sexual activity .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding copulation .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding stress related behavior .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of gluten .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of liquid .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of protein extract ,  concentrate or isolate .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of fat or oil .
addition of amino - acid betaine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of folates to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of carnitine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of methionine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of creatine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of arginine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of biotins to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of chenodeoxycholic acid to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of coenzyme q10 to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of glycine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of n - acetyl - l - cysteine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of ornithine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of riboflavin to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of vitamin b6 to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of citrulline to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of thiamine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of amino acid to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of l - serine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of uridine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of medium - chain fatty acid to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of essential fatty acid to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of cholesterol to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of elemental zinc to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of hydroxocobalamin to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of cyanocob ( iii ) alamin to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of methylcobalamin to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
the surgical transfer of a healthy bone marrow to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy bone tissue to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy heart to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy umbilical cord blood to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy cornea to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy dura mater to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy intestine to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy small intestine to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy lung to a patient .
the transfer of an organ ,  or organ subpart ,  from one body to another .
the surgical transfer of a healthy ovary to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy zone of skin to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy thymus to a patient .
the surgical transfer of a healthy kidney to a patient .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of alcoholic beverage .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of broad bean  ( whole )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of meat food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of nut food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of saffron food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of seafood product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of mussel food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of clove food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of dark chocolate .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of pumpkin seed  ( shell off )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of sesame seed .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of sunflower seed  ( whole kernel ,  raw )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of liver  ( whole ,  raw )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of egg or egg component .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of kidney  ( whole ,  raw )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of peas  ( whole ,  rehydrated ,  canned )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of bean food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of peanut  ( whole )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of soybean refined food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of 010  brassica  ( cole or cabbage )  vegetables ,  head cabbage ,  flowerhead brassicas  ( vb )   ( ccpr )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of brussels sprout vegetable food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of broccoli vegetable food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of cabbage vegetable food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of cauliflower vegetable food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of rapeseed food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of rapeseed oil .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of rapeseed meal .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of cephalopod .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of crustacean .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of beer .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of corn syrup  ( high fructose )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of sorbitol syrup .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of human milk based food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of cow milk based food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of fruit  ( whole ,  raw )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of hen egg  ( whole ,  shell off ,  raw )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of fruit juice food product .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of sugar cane juice  ( pure )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of organ meat .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of isoleucine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of arginine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of lysine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of methionine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of glycine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of phenylalanine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of tyrosine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of sodium atom .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of galactose .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of cholesterol .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of cholesterol .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of iron atom .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of ascorbic acid .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of branched - chain amino acid .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of trimethylamine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of choline .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of trimethylamine n - oxide .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of lecithin .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of sterol .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of purine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of fructose .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of lactose .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of leucine .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of oxalate .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of phosphate .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of saturated fatty acid .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of calcium atom .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of sucrose .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of triglyceride .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of riboflavin .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of phytanic acid .
a method of ultrasound imaging in which the ultrasound probe is pressed against the skin of the abdomen in order to create an image of the abdominal organs .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the body of uterus .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the breast .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the heart .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the liver .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the lung .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the lymph node .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the musculoskeletal system .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the neck .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the pancreas .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the rectum .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the scrotum .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the spleen .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the stomach .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the thyroid gland .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the urinary bladder .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the vagina .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the kidney .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the carotid artery segment .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the pelvic region of trunk .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the prostate gland .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the venous blood vessel .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the brain .
collection biological material from within the rectum with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the vagina with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the buccal mucosa with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the nasal turbinal with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the nasopharynx with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the nasal vestibule with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the zone of skin with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the oropharynx with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the external naris with a cotton swab .
collection biological material from within the throat with a cotton swab .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the abdomen .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the head .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the liver .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the lung .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the neck .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the brain .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the chest .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the skull .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the blood vasculature .
the use of computed tomography to produce images of structures of the pulmonary vascular system .
avoid the administration or use of computed tomography procedure .
avoid the administration or use of ketogenic diet intake .
use of an imaging test that uses small amounts of radiation to produce pictures of abdomen .
use of an imaging test that uses small amounts of radiation to produce pictures of head .
use of an imaging test that uses small amounts of radiation to produce pictures of liver .
use of an imaging test that uses small amounts of radiation to produce pictures of lung .
use of an imaging test that uses small amounts of radiation to produce pictures of neck .
use of an imaging test that uses small amounts of radiation to produce pictures of chest .
the x - ray examination of the lower limbs of the body .
the x - ray examination of the blood vessels or chambers of the heart .
an x - ray imaging technique that involves visualization of the pulmonary vasculature after fluoroscopy - guided catheter placement and injection of an iodinated contrast medium into the pulmonary circulation .
the radiographic examination of the tracheobronchial tree following the injection of a radiopaque material .
the radiographic examination of the bile ducts after a contrast medium has been injected .
a radiographic procedure to obtain an image of the urinary bladder by filling the bladder with contrast medium .
a type of radiography used specifically to examine breast tissue .
the radiographic examination of the spinal cord and nerve roots following the injection of a contrast medium into the spinal subarachnoid space .
a radiologic test that involves the examination of the entire body in a single procedure .
a radiographic examination of the vagina using the intravaginal injection of contrast medium .
the ketogenic diet is a high - fat ,  low - carbohydrate ,  adequate - protein diet that mimics a fasting state ,  resulting in the substitution of ketone bodies as a source of energy .
texture - modified foods and thickened drinks used to reduce the risks of choking and aspiration for individuals with oropharyngeal incoordination or dysphagia .
dietary approaches avoid excessive phenylalanine consumption ,  including stringent dietary restriction of natural protein intake ,  and supplementation of amino acids other than phenylalanine by a chemically manufactured protein substitute .
supplementation of uncooked cornstarch intended to prevent hepatomegaly and hypoglycemia ,  typically for individuals with irregular hepatic glycogen storage .
pathological structure or process
phenotypic observation of the presence or absence of a pathological entity .
lesions leading to or consequent on failure of ,  or atypical movement of ,  blood throughout the body .
abnormal release of whole blood or the cellular component from the circulation .
a pathological process of loss or degradation of function ,  or structural integrity ,  of a tissue ,  organ or cell .
the process ,  normal or abnormal ,  of damage repair or wound closure .
replacement of connective tissue by fibro - fatty deposits and scar tissue .
any pathological thickening or hardening of a tissue .
degenerative process characteristic of a particular tissue .
abnormal accumulation of air in the interstitial connective tissue of a structure .
developmental and structural abnormalities occurring during embryonic development or during adult life .
structural ,  physical or other general defect of prenatal development of the embryo and the placenta ,  or such as are acquired in the adult .
the organic response of tissues to external insult ,  injury or underlying genetic or epigenetic lesion .
processes occurring during cell and tissue damage of either intrinsic or extrinsic etiology .
anatomically located instance of pathological response or entity .
physical entity or structure associated with normal or abnormal tissue healing or repair following extrinsic or intrinsic damage .
a circumscribed collection of purulent exudate frequently associated with swelling and other signs of inflammation .
formation of an epithelium bounded cavity not associated with neoplasia .
a blind ended outpouching through the wall of a tubular organ or bounded cavity .
 \ "behavior related to the complex psychophysiological experience of an individual's state of mind as interacting with biochemical  ( internal )  and environmental  ( external )  influences . \ "  [ wikipedia:emotions ] 
behavior directly related to the production of offspring  [ nbo:ac ] 
 \ "emotional behavior related to fear or anxiety . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "behaviour related to the activity which primary purpose is the sexual reproduction . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
male's insertion of sperm - transfer organ into the body of the female  [ nbo:smac ] 
 \ "emotional behavior related to excitement or restlessness . \ "  [ nbo:gvg ] 
 \ "the action ,  reaction ,  or performance of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:go \  \ :0007610 ] 
 \ "behavior related to how the body reacts to a stressor  (  a stimulus that causes stress )  ,  real or imagined . \ "  [ wikipedia:stress_ ( biological )  ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ go:0050795 ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of substances . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "behavior related to the intake of addictive substances . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption of an addictive substance ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
 \ "any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sexual activity ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli . \ "  [ nboc:gvg ] 
consumption behavior that involves inhaling a material  ( such as finely ground tobacco leaves )  through the nose .
any habitual use of the tobacco plant leaf and its products .
the zucchini or courgette is a summer squash which can reach nearly a meter in length ,  but which is usually harvested at half that size or less .
kale or borecole is a form of cabbage  ( *brassica oleracea* acephala group )  ,  green or purple ,  in which the central leaves do not form a head .
the soybean or soya bean  ( glycine max )  is a species of legume native to east asia ,  widely grown for its edible bean ,  which has numerous uses .
a process that realizes a plan which is the concretization of a plan specification .
a regulatory role involved with making and / or enforcing relevant legislation and governmental orders
a role which inheres in material entities and is realized in the processes of making ,  enforcing or being defined by legislation or orders issued by a governmental body .
a role realized through the process of supplying materials such as animal subjects ,  reagents or other materials used in an investigation .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class prediction data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned class labels .
is a material entity that is created or changed during material processing .
a role that inheres in a material entity that is realized in an assay in which data is generated about the bearer of the evaluant role
a planned process with the objective to produce information about the material entity that is the evaluant ,  by physically examining it or its proxies .
a role inhering in a biological or chemical entity that is intended to be applied in a scientific technique to participate  ( or have molecular components that participate )  in a chemical reaction that facilitates the generation of data about some entity distinct from the bearer ,  or the generation of some specified material output distinct from the bearer .
a planned process which results in physical changes in a specified input material
a role borne by a material entity that is gained during a specimen collection process and that can be realized by use of the specimen in an investigation
an entity that can bear roles ,  has members ,  and has a set of organization rules .
an assay objective to determine the presence or concentration of an analyte in the evaluant
an objective specification to determine a specified type of information about an evaluated entity  ( the material entity bearing evaluant role ) 
an assay with the objective to capture information about the presence ,  concentration ,  or amount of an analyte in an evaluant .
a regulatory agency is a organization that has responsibility over or for  the legislation  ( acts and regulations )  for a given sector of the government .
an objective specifiction that creates an specific output object from input materials .
manufacturing is a process with the intent to produce a processed material which will have a function for future use .
is the objective to manufacture a material of a certain function  ( device ) 
manufacturer role is a role which inheres in a person or organization and which is realized by a manufacturing process .
a data set that is produced as the output of a class discovery data transformation and consists of a data set with assigned discovered class labels .
a planned process with the objective of collecting a specimen .
an analyte assay where binding of an enzyme linked antibody to a material entity that is immobilized on solid support is detected utilizing a chemiluminescent reaction .
a class prediction data transformation  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class prediction .
a objective specification to obtain a material entity for potential use as an input during an investigation .
a support vector machine is a data transformation with a class prediction objective based on the construction of a separating hyperplane that maximizes the margin between two data sets of vectors in n - dimensional space .
a decision tree induction objective is a data transformation objective in which a tree - like graph of edges and nodes is created and from which the selection of each branch requires that some type of logical decision is made .
a decision tree building data transformation is a data transformation that has objective decision tree induction .
a software that provides access to more than 100 tools for gene expression analysis ,  proteomics ,  snp analysis and common data processing tasks .
peak matching is a data transformation performed on a dataset of a graph of ordered data points  ( e .g .
a k - nearest neighbors is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  in which an input data object with vector y is assigned to a class label based upon the k closest training data set points to y ;  where k is the largest value that class label is assigned .
a cart  ( classification and regression trees )  is a data transformation method for producing a classification or regression model with a tree - based structure .
a data transformation which assesses how the results of a statistical analysis will generalize to an independent data set .
a person or organization that has a manufacturer role
is a role which inheres in a person or organization and is realized in in a planned process which provides access to training ,  materials or execution of protocols for an organization or person
a specimen that has been intentionally physically modified .
a label that is part of a categorical datum and that indicates the value of the data item on the categorical scale .
a document with a set of printed or written questions with a choice of answers ,  devised for the purposes of a survey or statistical study .
a value specification that is specifies one category out of a fixed number of nominal categories
an information content entity that specifies a value within a classification scheme or on a quantitative scale .
a material entity that has two or more specimens as its parts .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  7th edition grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a tumor slide specimen according to the fuhrman nuclear grading system .
a categorical value specification that is a histologic grade assigned to a ovarian tumor .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a two - tier histological classification of tumors .
a histologic grade for ovarian tumor that is from a histological classification by the world health organization  ( who )  .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  version 7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of the primary tumor .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colorectal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to staging of regional lymph nodes .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of colon cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of lung cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of renal cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is a  pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the tnm ajcc v7 classification system as they pertain to distant metastases .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a cancer according to the american joint committee on cancer  ( ajcc )  v7 staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of the stage of a gynecologic cancer according to the international federation of gynecology and obstetrics  ( figo )  staging systems .
a categorical value specification that is a pathologic finding about one or more characteristics of ovarian cancer following the rules of the figo classification system .
a categorical value specification that is an assessment of a participant's performance status  ( general well - being and activities of daily life )  .
a performance status value specification designed by the eastern cooperative oncology group to assess disease progression and its affect on the daily living abilities of the patient .
a performance status value specification designed for classifying patients 16 years of age or older by their functional impairment .
a specimen that is stored on a swab as the output of a collecting specimen with swab process .
a specimen collection process that uses a swab as the collection device .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a breast .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a nasopharynx .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the inside surface of a mouth .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a oropharynx .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a rectum .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a tongue .
a specimen that is collected with a swab from the surface of a vagina .
a material entity that is an individual living system ,  such as animal ,  plant ,  bacteria or virus ,  that is capable of replicating or reproducing ,  growth and maintenance in the right environment .
a material entity that has the specimen role .
a planned process that produces output data from input data .
is a data transformation :  leave - one - out cross - validation  ( loocv )  involves using a single observation from the original sample as the validation data ,  and the remaining observations as the training data .
a k - means clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery or partitioning objective ,  which takes as input a collection of objects  ( represented as points in multidimensional space )  and which partitions them into a specified number k of clusters .
a hierarchical clustering is a data transformation which achieves a class discovery objective ,  which takes as input data item and builds a hierarchy of clusters .
a dimensionality reduction is data partitioning which transforms each input m - dimensional vector  ( x_1 ,  x_2 ,   . . . ,  x_m )  into an output n - dimensional vector  ( y_1 ,  y_2 ,   . . . ,  y_n )  ,  where n is smaller than m .
a principal components analysis dimensionality reduction is a dimensionality reduction achieved by applying principal components analysis and by keeping low - order principal components and excluding higher - order ones .
an planned process that creates images ,  diagrams or animations from the input data .
an objective specification to transformation input data into output data
a partitioning data transformation is a data transformation that has objective partitioning .
a partitioning objective is a data transformation objective where the aim is to generate a collection of disjoint non - empty subsets whose union equals a non - empty input set .
a class discovery data transformation  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation that has objective class discovery .
a class discovery objective  ( sometimes called unsupervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to organize input data   ( typically vectors of attributes )  into classes ,  where the number of classes and their specifications are not known a priori .
a class prediction objective  ( sometimes called supervised classification )  is a data transformation objective where the aim is to create a predictor from training data through a machine learning technique .
a cross validation objective is a data transformation objective in which the aim is to partition a sample of data into subsets such that the analysis is initially performed on a single subset ,  while the other subset ( s )  are retained for subsequent use in confirming and validating the initial analysis .
a data visualization which has input of a clustered data set and produces an output of a report graph which is capable of rendering data of this type .
is a receptor produced by cells of the adaptive immune system with the purpose of binding epitopes .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting repetition of placement of its parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical dimension of extension .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer that has mass near a gravitational body .
a morphological quality pertaining to the degree to which an object contains an opening ,  aperture ,  orifice or vent .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial location relative to other objects in the vicinity .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a mobility quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a groove or fissure .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a height which is relatively low .
a height which is relatively high .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
a weight which is relatively high .
a weight which is relatively low .
an increased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting enlargement of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced size of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording not completed blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording unobstructed passage or view .
a spatial pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being confined or restricted to a particular location .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting an alteration in size ,  shape or organization of its constituent cells .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced number of cells within an organ or tissue .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted during formation .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence is exerted by the bearer's mass per unit size .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's rate of change of momentum .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to resist to a stimulus .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting density .
a resistance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to a stimulus .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located more centrally than another entity .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's being encrusted or impregnated with calcium carbonate  ( chebi:3311 )  .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in two copies .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a quality of a single physical entity that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a functionality quality which is held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform additional or different function ( s )  .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a pressure which is relatively low .
a pressure which is relatively high .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted in form .
an 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the length of the closed curve of a circle .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively high .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively low .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
an 1 - d extent quality inhering in two - dimensional bearer by virtue of being equal to the distance around it .
a perimeter which is relatively high .
a perimeter which is relatively low .
a density which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a density which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increasing over time .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having slow progressive course of indefinite duration .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormal and having a destructive effect on living tissue .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three angles .
a circumference which is relatively high .
a circumference which is relatively low .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
having extra or fewer parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing the form of a thin plate sheet or layer .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards another entity .
a deviation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards the side .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a behavioral quality inhering ina bearer by virtue of the bearer's unequal distribution of fine motor skill between its left and right hands or feet .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the left hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism preferentially uses the right hand or foot for tasks requiring the use of a single hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
handedness where the organism exhibits no overall dominance in the use of right or left hand or foot in the performance of tasks that require one hand or foot or a dominant hand or foot .
a force which relative high .
a force which is relative low .
a mobility which is relative high .
a mobility which is relative low .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
a plant structure  ( po:0005679 )  which is a whole organism .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a gynoecium  ( po:0009062 )  ,  or a single carpel  ( po:0009030 )  ,  and at maturity may have as parts one or more seeds  ( po:0009010 )  .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that develops from a plant ovule  ( po:0020003 )  and has as parts a plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  enclosed in a seed coat  ( po:0009088 )  .
a plant anatomical entity  ( po:0025131 )  that is ,  or was ,  part of a plant ,  or was derived from a part of a plant .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that has as parts two or more portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single structural unit demarcated by primarily bona - fide boundaries from other structural units of different types .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna ,  and any derivatives thereof .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
orifice of the olfactory system .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
the clusters of hormone - producing cells that are scattered throughout the pancreas
the pituitary gland is an endocrine gland that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands  [ go ]  .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
the parasympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system .
part of peripheral nervous system that includes the somatic parts of the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the endocrine system and is made up of islet cells ,  which produce insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the exocrine system and which produces and store zymogens of digestive enzymes ,  such as chymotrypsinogen and trypsinogen in the acinar cells  [ go ]  .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
anatomical projection that protrudes from the skin .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone [ vsao ]  .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
an eye with one concave chamber .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
the second stage of the kidney .
in mammals ,  the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus ,  which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord .
a mesonephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an epithelial swelling on the wolffian duct that elongates to invade the adjacent metanephric mesenchyme [ mp ] 
a spherical embryonic mass of blastomeres formed before the blastula and resulting from cleavage of the fertilized ovum .
a glycoprotein membrane surrounding the plasma membrane of an oocyte .
a mass of cells that develop into the body of the embryo and some extraembryonic tissues
the mesectodermal cell layer arising from the trophectoderm that erodes the uterine mucosa and contributes to the formation of the placenta
a flattened ,  almost circular bilaminar plate of cells formed when the inner cell mass  ( aka embryoblast )  forms two epithelial layers ,  each of a distinct lineage ,  separated by an extracellular basement membrane: the external  ( dorsal )  layer is called the epiblast and the internal  ( ventral )  layer is called the hypoblast  ( aka primitive endoderm )  ;  together ,  they compose the bilaminar embryonic disc .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
portion of neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
nucleus that receives projections from or contains neurons that send projections through one of the cranial nerves
the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression
the terminal part of the large intestine ,  continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a section dividing a colon along a proximal - distal axis .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
dorsal part  ( roof region )  of the telencephalon [ go ]  .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
a layer of membrane around a tendon .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the external portion of an animal body derived from ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
the upper ventral region of the torso of an organism .
a mucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the space between the arachnoid and pia mater .
a substance produced by the cervix and endocervical glands [ bto ]  .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
a mucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an embryo that is at the late embryonic stage ;  this stage covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the branched tubular glands found in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach which contain parietal cells that secrete hydrochloric acid and zymogenic cells that produce pepsin .
pancreatic juice is slightly alkaline and contains numerous enzymes and inactive enzyme precursors including alpha - amylase ,  chymotrypsinogen ,  lipase ,  procarboxypeptidase ,  proelastase ,  prophospholipase a2 ,  ribonuclease ,  and trypsinogen .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a mucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
bone marrow in which the fat cells predominate in the meshes of the reticular network .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
in anatomy ,  the throat is the anterior part of the neck ,  in front of the vertebral column .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the orbit and its contents ,  the nasal cavity and the skin of the nose and forehead .
a set of midline structures surrounding the brainstem of the mammalian brain ,  originally described anatomically ,  e .g . ,  hippocampal formation ,  amygdala ,  hypothalamus ,  cingulate cortex .
functional part of an organ in the body .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types ,  the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm [ go ]  .
the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids
the motor and sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the auricle ,  the external acoustic meatus ,  tympanic membrane ,  temporal region ,  the cheek ,  the skin overlying the mandible ,  the anterior portion of the tongue ,  the floor of the mouth ,  lower teeth and gingiva and transmits motor information from the muscles of mastication ,  the mylohyoid muscle and digastric muscle and the muscles tensor tympani and tensor veli palatini .
the part of the hindlimb between pelvis and the knee ,  corresponding to the femur .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the palate ,  upper teeth and gingiva ,  the skin between the palpebral fissure and the mouth ,  and from the nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses .
the muscular portion of the tongue .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
pia mater or arachnoid mater .
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the nasal vestibule is the most anterior part of the nasal cavity .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the prostate epithelium .
the arachnoid trabeculae are delicate strands of connective tissue that loosely connect the two innermost layers of the meninges  -  -  the arachnoid mater and the pia mater .
a small ,  often microscopic ,  tissue element in the form of a small beam ,  strut or rod ,  generally having a mechanical function ,  and usually but not necessarily composed of dense collagenous tissue .
a vein that drains the left pampiniform plexus and empties into the left renal vein .
a vein that drains the right pampiniform plexus and empties into the inferior vena cava .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
any of several small branches of the internal carotid artery that supply the trigeminal ganglion and the walls of the cavernous and petrosal sinuses .
the region of the opening of the uterine cervix into the uterine cavity .
an anatomical wall that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
a gonad of a male animal .
the organs and associated structures associated with bearing offspring in a female animal .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
interstitial fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of a solution which bathes and surrounds the cells of multicellular animals .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the thin layer of gray matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon .
middle part of an organ ,  surrounded by the cortex .
the cervical nerves are the spinal nerves from the cervical vertebrae .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
paired endochondral long bone that extends between the pectoral girdle and the skeletal parts of the forelimb .
the invaginated serous membrane that surrounds the lungs  ( the visceral portion )  and lines the walls of the pleural cavity  ( parietal portion )  .
the portion of the hindlimb that contains both the stylopod and zeugopod .
endochondral longbone connecting the pelvic girdle with posterior zeugopodium skeleton .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
a metapodium region that is part of a pes .
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
a intromittent organ in certain biologically male organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
a tube or collection of tubes in an animal from the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles [ wp ]  .
external genital organs of the female mammal [ wp ]  .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract posterolateral to the urinary bladder and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
the ejaculatory ducts  ( ductus ejaculatorii )  are paired structures in male anatomy ,  about 2 cm in length .
a secretory duct that transports sperm from the testis .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
a nerve that transmits from sensory receptors on the surface of the body to the central nervous system .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
a filament ,  mostly protein ,  that grows from follicles found in the dermis [ wp ]  .
a sac - like expansion of the ventral wall of the intestine ,  narrowed into a yolk stalk near the body [ hyman's ]  .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ] 
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
bottom part of the pharynx that connects to the esophagus .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a duct joining the pancreas to the common bile duct to supply pancreatic juices which aid in digestion provided by the exocrine pancreas .
a pad of fibrocartilage between the articular surfaces of two successive vertebral centra which has nucleus pulposus at its core .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
a point along the course of the gastrointestinal tract where the small intestine  ( ileum )  ends as it opens into the cecal portion of the large intestine ;  occurs usually within the iliac fossa ,  demarcated internally as the ileocecal orifice
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
ossified form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
the transverse or costal processes of a vertebra ,  two in number ,  project one at either side from the point where the lamina joins the pedicle ,  between the superior and inferior articular processes .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
skeletal element within the mouth  ( or in some species ,  upper part of the digestive tract )  that is composed of dentine and is used in procuring or masticating food .
any vertebral bone that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities .
traditional gross anatomy divided the liver into four lobes based on surface features .
the right lobe is much larger than the left ;  the proportion between them being as six to one .
the left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right .
a lobe of tissue that is part of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the right side of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the left side of a thyroid gland .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all the vertebra and associated skeletal elements and joints in the body [ modified from vsao ]  .
a foramen within a vertebral element through which the spinal cord runs .
the parathyroid gland is an endocrine gland for secretion of parathyroid hormone ,  usually found as a pair ,  embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
in anatomy ,  the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  is a blood vessel that drains blood from the small intestine .
either of the pair of major vessels which arise from the renal hilus and return blood from the kidneys ,  suprarenal gland and the ureter to the inferior vena cava .
a renal vein that drains the right kidney
a renal vein that drains the left kidney
vein that carries blood away from the liver [ zfa ]  .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from a single male gonad .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from its corresponding ovary to inferior vena cava or one of its tributaries .
a vein that drains the adrenal gland .
the tubular structure that conducts gall bladder contents from the gall bladder to the common bile duct
a pouch in the digestive tract that connects the ileum with the ascending colon of the large intestine .
a blind - ended tube connected to the cecum ,  from which it develops embryologically [ wp ]  .
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
section of colon which is distal to the cecum and proximal to the transversecolon .
the proximal - distal subdivision of colon that runs transversely across the upper part of the abdomen ,  from the right to the left colic flexure .
the portion of the colon between the left colic flexure and the sigmoid colon at the pelvic brim ;  the portion of the descending colon lying in the left iliac fossa is sometimes called the iliac colon .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
the body of stomach is the part of the stomach that lies between the fundus above and the pyloric antrum below ;  its boundaries are poorly defined [ go ]  .
the part of the stomach attached to the esophagus .
the area at the bottom of the stomach on the caudal side of the pyloric canal that contains gastrin - producing g cells ,  which stimulate acid production ,  and the luminal ph - sensitive population of somatostatin - producing d cells
the stomach tissue region surrounding and controlling the distal outlet of the stomach ,  which opens into the duodenum
the layered structure that makes up the stomach ,  typiclly consists of a serous coat ,  a muscular coat ,  a mucous membrane ,  and other tissue layers in between
an anatomical wall that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the peritoneum responsible for connecting the jejunum and ileum  ( parts of the small intestine )  to the back wall of the abdomen .
the triangular region on the periphery of the liver lobules that contain a bile duct and a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel .
the functional unit of the liver ,  consisting of a mass of hepatocytes from adjacent liver lobules aligned around the hepatic arterioles and portal venules just as they anastomose into sinusoids .
a complex network of conduits that begins with the canals of hering  ( intralobar bile duct )  and progressively merges into a system of interlobular ,  septal ,  and major ducts which then coalesce to form the extrahepatic bile ducts ,  which finally deliver bile to the intestine ,  and in some species to the gallbladder .
the part of the biliary tree formed by the union of the cystic duct and the common hepatic duct
predominantly extrahepatic bile duct which is formed by the junction of the right and left hepatic ducts ,  which are predominantly intrahepatic ,  and ,  in turn ,  joins the cystic duct to form the common bile duct [ gaid ]  .
the duct that drains bile from the right half of the liver and joins the left hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the duct that drains bile from the left half of the liver and joins the right hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the inner layer of peritoneum that is wrapped around organs located inside the intraperitoneal space .
anatomical cavity bounded by visceral and parietal peritoneum
mesenteric artery that supplies the large intestine from the left colic  ( or splenic )  flexure to the upper part of the rectum ,  which includes the descending colon ,  the sigmoid colon ,  and part of the rectum .
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
renal artery that supplies the right kidney
renal artery that supplies the left kidney
one of a pair of arteries that is a branch of the abdominal aorta that supplies blood to a male gonad .
a testicular artery that supplies a right testicle .
a testicular artery that supplies a left testicle .
an artery that supplies an ovary .
the common iliac arteries are two large arteries ,  about 4cm long in adults but more than a centimetre in diameter ,  that originate from the aortic bifurcation .
an artery that supplies the liver .
an artery that supplies the spleen .
the mucosal layer that lines the stomach .
the fibrous connective tissue layer beneath the stomach mucosa
the outermost layer of the stomach wall ,  consisting of layers of connective tissue continuous with the peritoneum
a strong ring of smooth muscle at the end of the pyloric canal which lets food pass from the stomach to the duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
submucosal tissue in the small intestines .
a serous membrane that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a compound tubular submucosal gland found in that portion of the duodenum which is above the hepatopancreatic sphincter  ( sphincter of oddi )  .
the tiny hair - like projections that protrude from the inside of the small intestine that contain blood vessels that capture digested nutrients that are absorbed through the intestinal wall ;  the villi increase the absorptive surface area of the small intestine by approximately 30 - fold
a blood vessel that drains blood from the large intestine that usually terminates when reaching the splenic vein ,  which goes on to form the portal vein with the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  .
the veins that drain blood from the ileum into the superior mesenteric vein .
the middle colic vein drains the transverse colon .
an ureter that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ureter that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
outer cortical portion of the kidney ,  between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron ,  the functional part of the kidney .
the collecting duct is a portion of the nephron through which water flows ,  moving passively down its concentration gradient
an adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
an adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that produces and secretes steroid hormones such as corticosterone ,  estrone and aldosterone
the inner portion of the adrenal gland that consists mainly of chromaffin cells which produce ,  store and secrete neurotransmitters such as epinephrine and norepinephrine
lamina propria that is part_of the small intestine .
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a serous membrane that is part of a wall of intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
the canals that carry bile in the liver between the intralobular ducts and the biliary ductules ;  interlobular bile ducts are part of the interlobular portal triad .
a ligament that attaches the liver to the anterior body wall .
an adventitia that is part of a ureter .
a lamina propria that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an anatomical wall that lines the insider of a urinary bladder .
the constricted portion of the urinary bladder ,  formed by the meeting of its inferolateral surfaces proximal to the opening of the urethra [ mp ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
a serous membrane that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the secretory units of the exocrine pancreas ,  where fluid containing digestive enzymes is produced ;  consists of a group of secretory cells surrounding a luminal space that connects to the pancreatic duct .
an endoderm derived structure that produces precursors of digestive enzymes and blood glucose regulating enzymes [ go ]  .
a trabecula that is part of a spleen .
transudate contained in the peritoneal cavity .
the acetabulum is a concave surface of the pelvis .
the organism subdivision that includes the pelvic girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a fused bone consisting of the ilium ,  ischium and and pubis .
paired endochondral bone that is the dorsal - most of the pelvic bones ,  offering attachment areas for gluteal muscles on its main surface  [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
the epithelial layer of the stomach  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a multi - organ - part structure that consists of three vessels of the portal lobule including the bile duct ,  a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel
the functional units of the liver including the lobules .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
the tubules located between the bile canaliculi and interlobular bile ducts near the outer edge of a classic liver lobule
the basic functional unit of the kidney .
the glandular mucous membrane lining of the uterine cavity that is hormonally responsive during the estrous / menstrual cycle and during pregnancy
outer serosa layer of the uterus .
the conic expansion of the corpus spongiosum that forms the head of the penis
the external sac of skin that encloses the testes .
the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testis that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testis and vas deferens
a fallopian tube that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a fallopian tube that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of simple cuboidal cells covering surface of ovary [ wp ]  .
a capsule that surrounds a female gonad .
the external iliac artery is a large artery in the pelvic region that carries blood to the lower limb .
the umbilical artery is a paired artery  ( with one for each half of the body )  that is found in the abdominal and pelvic regions .
an artery that supplies blood to the upper urinary bladder .
a vein that begins near the upper part of the greater sciatic foramen ,  passes upward behind and slightly medial to the hypogastric artery and ,  at the brim of the pelvis ,  joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein .
one the veins that drains the vaginal venous plexus ,  into the hypogastric veins .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
a portion of a prostate that forms a lobe .
the pampiniform plexus is a network of many small veins found in the male spermatic cord .
a zone of skin that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus when the penis is not erect .
a urethra that is part of a male reproductive system .
a urethra that is part of a female reproductive system .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the male or female urethra that help protect the epithelium from the corrosive urine
the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
the epithelial layer of the vagina .
the upper dilated end of the nasolacrimal duct that is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lacrimal bone and frontal process of the maxilla ;  it connects the lacrimal canaliculi ,  which drain tears from the eye's surface ,  and the nasolacrimal duct ,  which conveys this fluid into the nasal cavity ;  like the nasolacrimal duct ,  the sac is lined by stratified columnar epithelium with mucus - secreting goblet cells ,  and is surrounded by connective tissue .
a tube running from the outer ear to the middle ear .
the anus and surrounding regions .
the profunda femoris artery  ( also known as the deep femoral artery ,  or the deep artery of the thigh )  is a branch of the femoral artery that ,  as its name suggests ,  travels more deeply  ( posteriorly )  than the rest of the femoral artery .
the medial circumflex femoral artery  ( internal circumflex artery ,  medial femoral circumflex artery )  is an artery in the upper thigh that helps supply blood to the neck of the femur .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
the outer layer of peritoneum that is attached to the abdominal and pelvic walls .
a muscle that is part of the region of the hindlimb between the pelvis and ankle .
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a face  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a bone that is part of the carpal skeleton .
a phalanx that is part of a forelimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the head of a long bone that articulates with a neighboring skeletal element and is separated from the shaft by the epiphyseal plate until bone growth stops .
zone of long bone that is between the epiphysis and diaphysis .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free forelimb region .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb region .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a manus ,  which is the distal section of the anterior forelimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the neck by the plane of the superior thoracic aperture and from the abdomen internally by the inferior surface of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin and associated with the thoracic vertebral column and ribcage and from the back of the thorax by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ;  together with the abdomen and the perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper [ fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a pes ,  which is the distal section of the posterior hindlimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
a bone that is part of the tarsal skeleton .
the metatarsus or metatarsal bones are a group of five long bones in the pes located between the tarsal bones of the hind -  and mid - pes and the phalanges of the toes .
a phalanx that is part of a hindlimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the forelimb extending from the shoulder to the autopod [ cjm ]  .
the elbow is the region surrounding the elbow - joint - the ginglymus or hinge joint in the middle of the arm .
1st  ( preaxial )  digit of the manus [ wikipedia ]  .
the hip region is located lateral to the gluteal region  ( i .e .
a digit that is part of a pes  ( foot )  .
a subdivision of the pectoral complex consisting of the structures in the region of the shoulder joint  ( which connects the humerus ,  scapula and clavicle )  .
the joint between adjacent vertebral bodies .
the glenohumeral joint ,  commonly known as the shoulder joint ,  is a multiaxial synovial ball and socket joint and involves articulation between the glenoid fossa of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  and the head of the humerus  ( upper arm bone )  .
the loose fold of skin that covers the penis
the vaginal plexuses are placed at the sides of the vagina ;  they communicate with the uterine ,  vesical ,  and hemorrhoidal plexuses ,  and are drained by the vaginal veins ,  one on either side ,  into the hypogastric veins .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph ,  that originates as an interfibrillar or intercellular cleft or space in a tissue or organ ,  and that if small has no distinct walls or walls composed only of endothelial cells and if large resembles a vein in structure [ bto ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
a carpal bone that proximally_connected_to a forelimb zeugopod skeleton .
any muscle organ that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a shoulder region .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
a synovial joint that connects the femur to the acetbulum of the innominate bone .
a skeletal joint that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the hindlimb autopod and zeugopod skeletons .
a skeletal joint that is part of a manus  ( hand )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the forelimb zeugopod and stylopod skeletons [ obol ]  .
a joint connecting the forelimb zeugopod skeleton with the carpal skeleton .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries [ go ]  .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
the rightmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from in the neck from the brachiocephalic trunk .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to the brain and eyes [ mp ] 
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the pectoral appendages ,  usually branching from the dorsal aorta
the subclavian artery that supplies the right pectoral appendage
the leftmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from the aortic arch in the thorax .
the dorsal metatarsal veins are veins which drain the metatarsus of the foot .
a zone of skin that is part of a hip region .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
a fleshy subdivision of one side of the face bounded by an eye ,  ear and the nose .
the muscles associated with the larynx .
either of a pair of lingual muscles with origin in the mandible ,  with insertion to the lingual fascia below the mucous membrane and epiglottis ,  with nerve supply from the hypoglossal nerve ,  and whose action depresses and protrudes the tongue .
a muscle that attaches to the hyopid bone and to the tongue and is innervated by cranial nerve xii
a muscle organ that attaches the tongue to some other structure .
the intrinsic tongue muscles are an integral part of the tongue and completely contained within the tongue that are innervated by cranial nerve xii .
a muscle innervated by a facial nerve .
the subclavian artery that supplies the left pectoral appendage
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
a vein that drains blood from the thymus .
the bronchial veins are small vessels that return blood from the larger bronchi and structures at the roots of the lungs .
a congregation of multiple veins .
the muscle that stabilizes the stapes bone .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the iris .
a smooth muscle of the eye ,  running radially in the iris that functions as a dilator .
the lingual artery arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial artery [ wp ]  .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
the ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid artery which supplies branches to supply the eye and other structures in the orbit .
the lacrimal artery arises close to the optic foramen ,  and is one of the largest branches derived from the ophthalmic artery: not infrequently it is given off before the artery enters the orbit .
one of a pair of right - sided and left - sided blood vessels in the circle of willis .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
the first major branch of the abdominal aorta .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the supraorbital  ( supplying the skin of the eye region and the lateral line organs here )  ,  the palatine  ( to the roof of the buccal cavity )  ,  and the hyomandibular  ( dividing into the jugular and mental branches )  .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
cranial nerve that innervates the muscles of the tongue .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
the cerebral veins are divisible into external and internal groups according to the outer surfaces or the inner parts of the hemispheres they drain into .
a vein that drains the cerebellum .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull
the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous
a horseshoe shaped bone situated in the anterior midline of the neck between the chin and the thyroid cartilage .
one of 3 small bones contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid - filled labyrinth .
the stapes or stirrup is the stirrup - shaped small bone or ossicle in the middle ear which is attached to the incus laterally and to the fenestra ovalis ,  the 'oval window' medially .
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
part of the ear external to the tympanum  ( eardrum )  .
the petrous portion of the temporal bone or pyramid is pyramidal and is wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve ) 
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
subdivision of skeletal system that surrounds and protects the brain .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
a muscular organ in the floor of the mouth .
the cartilaginous joints of the skull ;  these include sphenoethmoidal synchondrosis ,  sphenooccipital synchondrosis ,  sphenopetrosal synchondrosis ,  petrooccipital synchondrosis ,  anterior intraoccipital synchondrosis and posterior intraoccipital synchondrosis .
a specialized receptor organ that is a collection of cells spanning the gustatory epithelium .
the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate
the portion of the pharynx that lies between the soft palate and the upper edge of the epiglottis
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
the lymph tissue in the roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx
the circular lymphoid tissue formed by the lingual ,  pharyngeal ,  and facial tonsils
either of the paired compound tubuloalveolar  ( aka tubuloacinar )  major salivary glands composed of both serous and mucous secretory cells and situated beneath the mandible .
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
a ligament that is part of a larynx and connexts the cartilages of the larynx
portion of connective tissue with various types of white blood cells enmeshed in it ,  most numerous being the lymphocytes [ wp ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a thyroid follicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense and irregular connective tissue capsule surrounding a parathyroid gland .
a parenchyma that is part of a parathyroid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a network of orbital structures of the eye that secrete and drain tears from the surface of the eyeball into the nasal cavity ;  these parts include the lacrimal glands ,  lacrimal lake ,  lacrimal ducts ,  lacrimal canals ,  lacrimal sacs ,  nasolacrimal ducts ,  and lacrimal puncta .
collagen - rich odontogenic tissue characteristic of teeth and tooth - like skeletal elements  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  ;  mature dentine is mineralized and develops from predentine tissue ;  often  ( but not always )  tubular and acellular .
the middle ear is the air - filled cavity within the skull of vertebrates that lies between the outer ear and the inner ear .
the part of the ear that projects from the head ,  connecting to the external acoustic meatus .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
the small curved bones that extends horizontally along the lateral wall of the nasal passage
a condensation of odontoblasts that forms the part of a tooth germ that gives rise to dentin and pulp in the mature tooth .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
the lamellated connective tissue of the cornea between the bowman and descemet membranes
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
the delicate vascular connective tissue that lies between the anterior surface of the iris and the pars iridica retinae .
the any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment [ mp , modified ] 
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
cranial nerves are nerves that emerge directly from the brain ,  in contrast to spinal nerves ,  which emerge from segments of the spinal cord .
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
a transparent ,  semigelatinous substance that fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina
gelatinous mucoid tissue that is composed of vitreous humor and fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina [ mp , modified ] 
the chamber in the eyeball enclosing the vitreous humor ,  bounded anteriorly by the lens and ciliary body and posteriorly by the posterior wall of the eyeball [ bto , modified ]  .
the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons and non - neuronal supporting cells .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
ganglion that has dendrites that form a junction between autonomic nerves originating from the central nervous system and autonomic nerves innervating their target organs in the periphery .
a ganglion of the sympathetic nervous system .
ganglion containing neurons that receive innervation from parasympathetic neurons in the central nervous system and subserves parasympathetic functions through innervation of smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands .
the lacrimal glands are paired almond - shaped glands ,  located in or near the orbital region ,  that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film .
any of the coil glands of the skin that secrete sweat
a holocrine gland that secretes sebum into the hair follicles ,  or in hairless areas into ducts .
one of the cartilage structures in the nose that provide form and support [ wp ]  .
the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
aqueous substance secreted by the lacrimal gland .
one of the three largest glands of the oral cavity that secrete most of the saliva ,  including the parotid ,  submandibular ,  and sublingual glands .
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
the duct of a salivary gland .
a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
cartilage of the pinna and much of the external ear canal .
a collection of channels that connects the conjunctival sac with the nasal cavity ,  encompassing the lacrimal ducts ,  the lacrimal sac and the naso - lacrimal duct .
outermost layer of an organ [ wp ]  .
fatty lubricant matter secreted by sebaceous glands ,  and made of made of triglyceride oils ,  wax ,  squalene ,  and metabolytes of fat - producing cells [ bto , wp ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
anterior portion of the neocortex ,  lying anterior to the central sulcus in humans .
lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere .
upper central part of the cerebral hemisphere .
a nerve that arises from the caudal cervical nerves and is primarily the motor nerve of the diaphragm but also sends sensory fibers to the pericardium .
a network formed by blood vessels and the tela choroidea which secretes csf into the ventricular spaces .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres .
the division of the forebrain that develops from the foremost primary cerebral vesicle .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons  ( where present )  and the cerebellum [ wp , modified ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
subcortical brain region consisting of paired gray matter bodies in the dorsal diencephalon and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle of the brain .
a specialized brain region of the ventral diencephalon arising near the end of the segmentation period ;  the embryonic hypothalamic region will give rise to the posterior pituitary gland as well as a number of brain nuclei .
most dorsal part of the thalamus ,  comprising the pineal gland and habenular nuclei in most vertebrates .
the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells
an epithelium that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a midline ,  cone like structure located in the dorso - caudal roof of the 3rd ventricle ,  attached by peduncles to the habenular and posterior commissures .
a specialized accessory gland of the skin of mammals that secretes milk .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
an area of cerebral cortex defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture that have six layers .
an epithelium that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the hyaline cartilaginous structures that support the bronchi ,  present as irregular rings in the larger bronchi  ( and not as regular as in the trachea )  ,  and as small plates and islands in the smaller bronchi ;  as the branching continues through the bronchial tree ,  the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles [ mp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines a terminal bronchiole .
diffuse system of small concentrations of lymphoid tissue found in various sites of the body such as the gastrointestinal tract ,  thyroid ,  breast ,  lung ,  salivary glands ,  eye ,  and skin [ wp ]  .
mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue in digestive tract .
a diffuse collection of lymphpoid cells that participate in airway immune responses
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
a submucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer that lines the luminal space of the esophagus
the portion of blood plasma that excludes clotting factors .
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
cartilage tissue that is flexible and contains abundant elastic fibers .
any joint that connects a rib to another structure  ( or another rib )  .
peripheral portion of the lymph node ,  underneath the capsule [ wp ]  .
the mdeullary portion of the lymph node ,  which contains large blood vessels ,  sinuses and medullary cords that contain antibody - secreting plasma cells .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
the tough fibrous layer surrounding the kidney which is covered in a thick layer of perirenal adipose tissue that functions to provide some protection from trauma and damage
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a vein that conducts blood from the digestive organs ,  spleen ,  pancreas ,  and gallbladder to the liver [ bto ]  .
soft tissue that lines the non - cartilaginous surfaces within joints with cavities  ( synovial joints )  .
a cranial nerve that originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
the simple columnar epithelial lining of the gall bladder .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a tiny smooth muscle that connects the hair follicle with the dermis .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa behind the brain stem .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
an endothelium that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a two - lobed endocrine gland found in all vertebrates ,  located in front of and on either side of the trachea in humans ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin [ bto ]  .
the pontine raphe nucleus is one of the raphe nuclei .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick capsule of dense irregular connective tissue that surrounds each adrenal gland and contains scattered elastic fibers ;  the capsule contains a rich plexus of blood vessels  ( mainly small arteries )  and numerous nerve fibers ;  some blood vessels and nerves enter the substance of the gland in the trabeculae that extend inward from the capsule and then leave the trabeculae to enter the cortex .
each renal artery gives off some small inferior suprarenal branches to the suprarenal gland ,  the ureter ,  and the surrounding cellular tissue and muscles .
an artery that supplies the diaphragm
the ganglion associated with the lingual nerve that provides postsynaptic fibers to the submandibular and sublingual glands
the femoral artery is a large artery in the muscles of the thigh .
the truncus arteriosus and bulbus cordis are divided by the aorticopulmonary septum .
the endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves [ go ]  .
the sinus venosus is a large cardiac chamber at the inflow tract that receives venous blood from systemic circulation .
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
a tube - like opening in the epidermis where the hair shaft develops and into which the sebaceous glands open [ go ]  .
the main part of the hair which is composed of trichocytes and is divided into the cortex and medulla .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
a cortex that is part of a hair  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the outer of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity ;  consists of two layers including the periosteal layer and the meningeal layer .
a dura mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
anatomical organ component composed of a double layer of serous membrane that suspends a viscus from the body wall or connects adjacent viscera and in doing so conveys blood vessels ,  lymphatics and nerves to and from the viscera .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
a paired appendage that is evolved from a paired fin .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pectoral girdle .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pelvic girdle region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
subdivision of digestive tract that connects the stomach to the large intestine and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place  ( with the exception of ruminants )  .
pair of nostrils .
an organ that aids digestion and stores bile produced by the liver [ wp ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
the first part of the small intestine .
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon
an ovary that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ovary that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
the fibrous connective tissue surrounding the thymus .
the outer part of a thymus lobule that surrounds the medulla and is composed of closely packed lymphocytes
medullary portion of thymus .the reticulum is coarser than in the cortex ,  the lymphoid cells are relatively fewer in number ,  and there are found peculiar nest - like bodies ,  the concentric corpuscles of hassall .
a lobule that is part of a thymus .
a a collection of brainstem nuclei that functions in multiple aspects of hearing and is an important component of the ascending and descending auditory pathways of the auditory system .
the superficial gray matter of the cerebellum .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
nucleus containing parasympathetic neurons giving rise to the parasympathetic division of the facial nerve ,  innervating the salivary glands  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 703 )  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
the conducting airway of the lungs found terminal to the bronchi ;  these structures contain neither cartilage nor mucous - secreting glands ;  the epithelium of the bronchioles becomes thinner with each branching
the last conducting structure of non - respiratory bronchioles ;  after this point ,  the airways have alveoli in their walls
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
capsule surrounding lymph node composed of connective tissue with some plain muscle fibers .
membranous process coming from capsule of lymph node [ wp ]  .
the glandular ,  anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
the posterior part of the pituitary gland that secretes hormones involved in blood pressure regulation such as oxytocin and antidiuretic hormon .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a trachea .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by hyaline cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by fibrocartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
anatomical structure that is a membranous gap between bones of the skull [ tao ]  .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
an intersegmental rod - shaped bone that forms in the peritoneal membrane and attach to the vertebral parapophyses .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
endoskeletal elements that encase the brain ,  nose ,  inner ear [ cjm ]  .
the jelly - like substance in the middle of the spinal disc which is a remnant of the notochord
an organ that houses olfactory neurons and is responsible for the sense of smell .
a composite substructure of the brainstem that consists of the midbrain reticular formation ,  the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
a brain ventricle that is part of a telencephalon .
choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle
organ system subdivision that consists of the organs and ducts that are involved in the production and transportation of bile .
the mesentery that originates from the dorsal side of the peritoneal cavity [ zfa ]  .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
one of the layers of the neocortex .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
part of choroid plexus contained in the lateral ventricle
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
any muscle organ that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the urethra is a renal system organ that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body .
a lamina propria that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the connecting cord from the developing embryo to the placenta .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
the duct of the submadibular gland that opens at the sublingual papilla near the frenulum of the tongue
the layer of connective tissue comprised of the endometrial lining of the uterus which fluctuates in thickness throughout the menstrual cycle .
a lamina propria that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
set of all muscles in abdomen .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
membrane organ that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord .
the innermost layer of the leptomeninges ,  consisting of a delicate membrane closely covering the surface of the brain and spinal cord , and lying under the arachnoid membrane .
a think avascular meningeal layer ,  between the pia mater and the dural mater .
thick ,  fibrous meningeal covering surrounding the brain and spinal cord .
a thin membrane that separates the external ear from the middle ear ,  consisting of two epithelia  ( one part of the the external accoustic meatus epithelium ,  the other part of the tympanic cavity epithelium )  with a fibrous layer between them .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
the prostate gland is a partly muscular ,  partly glandular body that is situated near the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
either of a pair of complex endocrine organs near the anterior medial border of the kidney consisting of a mesodermal cortex that produces glucocorticoid ,  mineralocorticoid ,  and androgenic hormones and an ectodermal medulla that produces epinephrine and norepinephrine [ bto ]  .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
the soft tissue that fills the cavities of bones
either of the two small almond - shaped masses of lymph tissue found on either side of the oropharynx
tonsils on the left and right sides at the back of the throat .
a bone that is part of the metacarpal skeleton .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
any muscle that is part of the cervical  ( neck )  region .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
the middle limb segment of the pectoral free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
distal portion of the hind limb ,  including tarsal region ,  metatarsal region and digits .
a digit that is part of a manus  ( hand )  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
lymph is the fluid that is formed when interstitial fluid enters the conduits of the lymphatic system through lymph capillaries [ wp ]  .
the paired channels leading from the lacrimal sacs to the inferior meatus of the nose ,  through which tears are conducted through the nasal cavity
any of the ducts that form the biliary tree ,  carrying bile from the liver to the small intestine .
distal segment of the fore limb ,  including carpal region ,  metacarpal region and digits .
the outer serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the inner serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the fluid - filled cavity that lies between the visceral and parietal pleurae .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
the autonomic nervous system is composed of neurons that are not under conscious control ,  and is comprised of two antagonistic components ,  the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems .
the small ,  erectile body located at the anterior end of the vulva
the ossified form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a vertebra that is located in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
large vertebra of the movable part of the vertebral column ,  characterized by the absence of the foramen transversarium within the transverse process ,  and by the absence of facets on the sides of the body .
an external caudal extension of the body .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
part of the ventricular system of the brain ,  forming a single large irregularly shaped cavity located on the midline of the rhombencephalon ,  between the medulla ,  pons and the isthmus ventrally and the cerebellum dorsally .
the part of the digestive system that contains the liver and the biliary system
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cervical lymph nodes are lymph nodes found in the neck .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous secreting gland associated with the mucuous membrane lining the uterus .
an artery that supplies the anterior chest wall and the breasts .
the small branching sprouts of the dorsal aorta that grow across the medial surface of the somite ,  turn right angles to grow over that surface and then fuse with other sprouts and form the vertebral arteries adjacent to the neural tube ;  the intersomitic arteries supply the body wall and persist in the adult as the posterior intercostal ,  subcostal and the lumbar arteries
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
a tributary of the iliac vein that drains the urinary bladder .
the lymphatic system in vertebrates is a network of conduits that carry a clear fluid called lymph .
clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls .
a mucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
terminal segment of free limb ,  immediately distal to the zeugopod region .
the middle free limb segment ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
the proximal free limb segment .
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
the minute canals that pass the prostatic secretions to the urethra .
long bone is a limb bone that is subcylindrical and has a shaft with periosteum separating the ends of the bones .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lymph nodes located in the mesentery ,  of which there are 3 classes: ileocolic ,  juxtaintestinal mesenteric ,  and central superior group .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
the base of skull is the most inferior area of the skull ,  composed of the endocranium and lower parts of the skull roof .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
a lymph node that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a major subdivision of a mature or developing limb ,  including both skeletal elements  ( or the mesenchyme that gives rise to the skeletal elements )  and associated tissues ,  such as muscle ,  connective tissue ,  integument .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
a subdivision of the autopod that has as part a series of phalanges together with associated vasculature ,  musculature ,  integument and nerves .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
the cavity that is enclosed by the central nervous system .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a cervical region .
a regional part of brain that is part of a cerebellar cortex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
parietal lobe of the left hemisphere of the brain
parietal lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain
a temporal lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the left side of a brain .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the right side of a brain .
nucleus forming a longitudinal cell column in the medulla ,  close beneath the floor of the 4th ventricle ,  containing motor neurons that innervate the muscles of the tongue  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 453 ) 
the deep groove which separates the two hemispheres of the vertebrate brain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a trigeminal nuclear complex .
a sensory epithelium that is part of a gustatory system .
dorsal portion of the pons ,  containing cranial nervee nuclei ,  ascending and descending tracts and reticular nuclei .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the thoracic nerves are the spinal nerves emerging from the thoracic vertebrae .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
an epithelial sac of invaginated ectoderm formed from the otic placode that gives rise to the structures of the inner ear [ mp ] 
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
in mammals ,  the pronephric duct is the predecessor of the wolffian duct [ wp ]  .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
the second pharyngeal arch will form the hyoid apparatus .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
paired organ that connects the primitive kidney wolffian body  ( or mesonephros )  to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the tail .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
the initial thyroid precursor ,  the thyroid primordium ,  starts as a simple midline thickening and develops to form the thyroid diverticulum .
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue consisting of loosely organized undifferentiated mesodermal cells that give rise to such structures as connective tissues ,  blood ,  lymphatics ,  bone ,  and cartilage [ xao ]  .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the cranium and provides structural support for the olfactory organ .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton [ zfa , modified ]  .
the third branchial arch contributes to the development of the hyoid bone ,  stylopharyngeus muscle ,  inferior parathyroid gland ,  and thymus .
contributes to development of the cartilage of the larynx ,  laryngeal ,  pharyngeal ,  and soft palate muscles ,  superior parathyroid gland ,  and c - cells of the thymus
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the second pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the third pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the outermost extraembryonic membrane
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an organ involved in reproduction
a female organ involved in reproduction
a male organ involved in reproduction
any sense organ that functions in  ( some )  detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 )  .
septum that divides the ovary ,  the basal portion of a carpel or group of fused carpels ,  that encloses the ovule ( s )  [ go ]  .
one of the two embryological structures that give rise to the kidney  ( the other is the ureteric bud )  .
endochondral bones that are often elongate and arranged in rows of articulating elements ,  and form the visible part of the digits .
an epithelium that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a footplate .
an epithelium that is part of a otic placode  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs in an organism connected to the sternum and the vertebrae .
the neck of the rib is the flattened portion which extends lateralward from the head ;  it is about 2 .5 cm .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from endoderm and lines the yolk sac .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a thyroid primordium .
a mesenchyme that is part of a chorion .
a calcareous tooth that is part of the lower jaw region .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
an endothelium that is part of a trachea .
the portion of the primitive mesentery that encloses the stomach ;  from its dorsal sheet ,  the greater omentum develops ,  and from its ventral sheet ,  the lesser omentum .
a mesentery that surrounds the heart .
a mesentery that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
any gland that is part of the diencephalon .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing testis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing ovary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from mesoderm and consists of mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the carpal skeleton .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pinna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a footplate .
a submucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
a submucosa that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
a ganglion that is part of a central nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a submandibular gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pelvic appendage bud .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pectoral appendage bud .
an ectoderm that is part of a footplate .
a extraembryonic structure that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a chorion .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a diaphragm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pleural cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a urinary system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the mucous ,  serous ,  or mixed glands that empty their secretions onto the surface of the tongue .
a gland that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing submandibular gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gelatinous substance within the umbilical cord ,  largely made up of mucopolysaccharides  ( hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate )  .
a lymph node that is located in a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any nerve that innervates the iris .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a nerve that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is located in a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the region of the forelimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is connected via a shoulder joint  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb region .
a bone that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ureteral branches of renal artery are small branches which supply the ureter .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that supplies blood to the cerebellum .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
one of the arteries supplying a meninix [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of lymphoid tissue that is part of a thymus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a camera - type eye .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a holocrine gland of the dermis that secretes sebum into hair follicles .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an lymphatic vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve trunk that is part of a vagus nerve .
a bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the innermost of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity that is firmly attached to the glial capsule .
a pia mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a forebrain .
a dura mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trachea .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hand  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ring - shaped cartilaginous structures that support the trachea
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
5th digit of the manus .
1st digit of the hind autopod .
5th digit of the hind autopod .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a bone that is part of a mesopodial skeleton .
any joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that attaches to a tail vertebra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a small fluid - filled sac lined by synovial membrane with an inner capillary layer of slimy fluid .
a collection of teeth arranged in some pattern in the mouth or other part of the body .
the part of a tooth that is implanted in the gum ;  the root is normally located below the neck of the tooth ,  covered by cementum rather than enamel ,  and attached by the periodontal ligament to the alveolar bone
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments  ( scant amount of collagenous dense connective tissue )  .
in anatomy ,  in the occipital bone ,  the foramen magnum is one of the several oval or circular apertures in the base of the skull ,  through which the medulla oblongata  ( an extension of the spinal cord )  enters and exits the skull vault .
the outermost part of the spinal canal .
the metacarpophalangeal joints  ( mcp )  are of the condyloid kind ,  formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones into shallow cavities on the proximal ends of the first phalanges ,  with the exception of that of the thumb ,  which presents more of the characters of a ginglymoid joint .
the metatarsophalangeal articulations are the joints between the metatarsal bones of the foot and the proximal bones of the toes  .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
passages external to the liver for the conveyance of bile .
passages within the liver for the conveyance of bile .
a circle of arteries that supply blood to the brain .
the left and right brachiocephalic veins in the upper chest are formed by the union of each corresponding internal jugular vein and subclavian vein .
a vein arising from the splenic trabecular vein in the hilum of the spleen that drains into the portal vein .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
the major nerves supplying sympathetic innervation to the abdomen ,  including the greater ,  lesser ,  and lowest  ( or smallest )  splanchnic nerves that are formed by preganglionic fibers from the spinal cord which pass through the paravertebral ganglia and then to the celiac ganglia and plexuses and the lumbar splanchnic nerves carry fibers which pass through the lumbar paravertebral ganglia to the mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia .
a branch of the vagus nerve that supplies motor function and sensation to the larynx  ( voice box )  .
the lingual nerve is a branch of the mandibular nerve  ( cn v3 )  ,  itself a branch of the trigeminal nerve ,  which supplies sensory innervation to the tongue .
the twelve spinal nerves on each side of the thorax .
the intercostal nerves are the anterior divisions  ( rami anteriores ;  ventral divisions )  of the thoracic spinal nerves from t1 to t11 .
the central part of the thoracic cavity enclosed by the left and right pleurae .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a region of the fetal urogenital sinus epithelium destined to become the prostate [ go ]  .
a bone of the metapodial skeleton
the part of the forelimb between pectoral region and the elbow ,  corresponding to the humerus .
the middle limb segment of the pelvic free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle tissue that is part of the urethra .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin of body that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of an autopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
epithelium that is part of a developing tooth or dental organ .
an epithelium that is part of a thymus ,  forming a supporting framework [ mp , modified ]  .
a artery that supplies a thyroid gland .
in medicine ,  gonadal vein refers to the blood vessel that carrying blood away from the gonad  ( testis ,  ovary )  toward the heart .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a telencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a diencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme enclosed by a dental organ that gives rise to an odontogenic papilla .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a ganglion .
a mesentery that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
initial section of the oviduct through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus
paired ducts of the embryo that run down the lateral sides of the urogenital ridge and terminate at the mullerian eminence in the primitive urogenital sinus .
connective ,  non - functional supportive framework of a biological cell ,  tissue ,  or organ .
a cover or envelope partly or wholly surrounding a structure .
a small endodermal thickening in the foregut adjacent to the transverse septum .
one of the skeletal muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue in the trunk .
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
small blood vessel similar to a capillary but with a fenestrated endothelium .
the epithelial component of the choroid plexus .
hard bony ,  calcareous ,  or chitinous organ found in the mouth or pharynx of an animal and used in procuring or masticating food .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
kidney mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the kidney [ go ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
embryonic structure that develops into pancreatic bud .
the embryonic pancreas develops from two separate anlagen in the foregut epithelium ,  one dorsal and two ventral pancreatic buds [ pmid ]  .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the accessory pancreatic duct .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the major pancreatic duct .
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
a cartilage element that is part of the cranial skeleton .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
the sensory system for the sense of touch and pain .
the brain ventricles or their associated choroid plexuses
the posterior concave interior of the eye ,  consisting of the retina ,  the choroid ,  the posterior segment of the sclera ,  the optic disk ,  and blood vessels ,  visible by an ophthalmoscope
the anterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the posterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the structures associated with drainage of the aqueous humor from the eye ,  that include the trabecular meshwork ,  schlemm's canal ,  the uveoscleral network ,  and the aqueous veins
an anastomosing network of delicate tubules located in the hilum of the testicle  ( mediastinum testis )  that carries sperm from the seminiferous tubules to the vasa efferentia [ wp ]  .
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the internal feminine genital organs ,  including the ovaries ,  uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  uterine cervix ,  and vagina .
one of a set of deep furrows which divide the lobules of the cerebellum .
a conical pouch formed from the upper and left angle of the right ventricle in the chordate heart ,  from which the pulmonary artery arises [ wp ]  .
the funnel - like expansion of the abdominal extremity of the uterine tube [ mp ] 
the dense region demarcating the thymus medulla from the surrounding cortex that is characterized by numerous blood vessels  ( predominantly arterioles )  with some perivascular connective tissue ,  mature and immature t lymphocytes ,  dendritic cells ,  variable numbers of perivascular b - lymphocytes and plasma cells ;  site of entry of bone marrow stem cells and exit of mature ,  functional t cells
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
that portion of the chorionic wall in the region of its uterine attachment ,  which gives rise to chorionic villi ;  it consists of the mesoderm that lines the chorionic vesicle and ,  on the maternal side ,  of the trophoblast that lines the intervillous spaces ;  in the last half of gestation ,  the mesodermal connective tissue is largely replaced by fibrinoid material ,  and the amnionic membrane is adherent to the fetal side of the plate .
the transient outer neural tube region that contains the first generated post - mitotic neurons that receive synaptic input from thalamic axons and in turn project axons to the developing cortical plate
the region of the developing mammalian cortex that extends between the ventricular zone and the cortical plate  ( cp )  ;  normally ,  the iz is a region of tangential migration of cells ,  and at midgestation ,  the lower part of the iz develops into the subventricular zone
the external masculine genital organs ,  including the penis and scrotum
the internal masculine genital organs ,  including the testes ,  epididymides ,  deferent ducts ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  ejaculatory ducts ,  and bulbourethral glands
one of the fine terminal elements of the bile duct system ,  leaving the portal canal ,  and pursuing a course at the periphery of a lobule of the liver [ bto ]  .
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
the unpaired embryonic prominence that is formed by the tissues surrounding the forebrain vesicle and develops into the forehead and bridge of the nose / snout .
the lateral area of the two branches of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it separates the olfactory pit from the developing eye and the ala of the nose / snout develops from it
one of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord ,  that like it are derived from the medullary canal of the embryo ,  that are lined with an epithelial ependyma ,  and that contain a serous fluid
any of the veins that carries deoxygenated blood from a part of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
the middle of the face including the nose and its associated bony structures [ mw ]  .
joint cavity shared by all the joints of the elbow .
the collecting duct system of the kidney consists of a series of tubules and ducts that connect the nephrons to the ureter .
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a muscle of the tympanic cavity that attaches to an auditory ossicle .
small cavity surrounding the bones of the middle ear .
a blood vessel that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an internal pocketing of pharyngeal endoderm that contacts a region of ectoderm  ( a pharyngeal cleft )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions with the pharyngeal arches .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
any of the layers of the myocardium .
the layer of the myocardium composed of projections of contractile myocytes .
a myocardium trabecular layer that is part of a cardiac ventricle .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
a cortical cell layer of the cerebellum .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
the internal genitalia are the internal sex organs such as the uterine tube ,  the uterus and the vagina in female mammals ,  and the testis ,  seminal vesicle ,  ejaculatory duct and prostate in male mammals
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
the prostate gland stroma is made up of the mesenchymal or fibroblast cells of the prostate gland
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
kidney pyramids are the conical arrangements of tubules that constitute the renal medulla in a multi - lobed mammalian kidney ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts .
the cortical collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex
nephrogenic mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the nephron
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells .
the nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the urothelium of the kidney pelvis
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a spleen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the dorsal region of an animal .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb zeugopod  ( lower arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb stylopod  ( upper arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod  ( lower leg )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cranial suture that is part of a cartilaginous joint  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a lateral ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a fourth ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a nerve that is part of a parasympathetic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve trunk that is part of a sympathetic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
distal - most phalanx within a digit .
a phalanx located between proximal and distal phalanges .
proximal - most phalanx within a digit .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
upper part of skull ,  consisting of parietals ,  frontals ,  post - parietals ,  and in some species the squamosal and a portion of the alisphenoid
a membranous sac that develops from the posterior part of the alimentary canal in the embryos of mammals ,  birds ,  and reptiles ,  and it is important in the formation of the umbilical cord and placenta in mammals [ vhog ]  .
the primitive streak is a structure that forms during the early stages of avian ,  reptilian and mammalian embryonic development [ wp ]  .
outermost layer of cells in the blastodermic vesicle ,  which will develop into the trophoblast layer and then contact the endometrium and take part in establishing the embryo's means of nutrition
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
multilayered ectodermal region at the distal tip of a limb or fin bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme [ mp , modified ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb or paired fin .
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
blood vessel that is connected to the yolk sac .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer found between the substantia propria and the endothelial layer of the cornea [ mp ]  .
a continuous cartilaginous formation in mesenchyme of the second pharyngeal arch in the embryo .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
vascular network that is connected to the yolk sac .
a bone that is part of an appendage  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metaphysis that is in the distal side of a diaphysis .
a metaphysis that is in the proximal side of a diaphysis .
an epiphysis that is on the distal side of the bone .
an epiphysis that is on the proximal side of the bone .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb .
an epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a distal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a proximal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper extremity of the humerus  ( proximal humerus )  consists of a large rounded head joined to the body by a constricted portion called the neck ,  and two eminences ,  the greater and lesser tubercles .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 1 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 5 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of three main pairs of arteries and their branches ,  which irrigate the cerebrum of the brain .
a vertebra in the trunk or cervical region .
a mesopodium that is part of a manus .
a metapodium region that is part of a manus .
mesopodial segment of the pes ,  including the tarsal skeleton and associated tissues .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg  /  thigh )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower leg or upper leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the hip skeleton .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the shoulder skeleton .
the collection of muscles that are part of the larynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a diaphragm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is attached to a vertebra of the vertebral column .
a portion of striated muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body or organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone tissue .
a testis that is in the left side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a testis that is in the right side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a network of blunt ended vessels lacking direct connection to the blood vascular system .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
a kidney that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a kidney that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the layer of secretory cells which lines the epididymis
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick circular layer of smooth gastric musculature encircling the gastroesophageal junction that functions to reduce backflow into the esophagus from the stomach
an artery that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
a structure ,  usually a circular muscle ,  that normally maintains constriction of a natural body passage or orifice and which relaxes as required by normal physiological functioning .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
the connective tissue that surrounds the spleen
the polygonal structure of the liver that consists of hepatocytes radiating outward from a hepatic vein
a keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
the body or shaft of the humerus is almost cylindrical in the upper half of its extent ,  prismatic and flattened below ,  and has three borders and three surfaces .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
a muscular coat that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the membranous portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
one of: the 4th ventricle median or lateral apertures .
the sensory system for the sense of balance .
the raphe nuclei are thin plates of cells in and immediately adjacent to the sagittal plane .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
an epithelium that is part of an external naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vena cava  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a depression or hollow in a bone [ wp ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
a stage that follows the blastula ,  gastrula and neurula stages .
an appendage that is part of an appendage girdle complex .
paired appendage that consists of the posterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pelvic girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
paired appendage that consists of the anterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pectoral girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
a collecting duct of renal tubule that is part of a metanephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dentary is a dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw in fishes and amphibians ,  extending to the whole lower jaw in mammals [ vhog , modified ]  .
skeletal element that consists of the scapula and the coracoid [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
a gland that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive cartilagionous skeletal structure of the fetal skull that grows to envelop the rapidly growing embyonic brain .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between the two epiphyses ,  excluding the metaphyses [ fma , modified ]  .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
opening / conduit between the nasal cavity and the nasopharynx [ aao ]  the choanae are separated by the vomer [ wp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a lamina propria that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a mucous gland that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
the thymic connective tissue which extends into the parenchyma
a secretion that is part of a endocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a exocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bodily secretion that is produced by the prostate gland .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oviduct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a salivary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the renal tubule luminar surfaces
an epithelium that is part of an endometrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a prepuce of penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the stratified epithelial lining of the seminiferous tubules ,  consisting of the developing spermatozoa and the supporting sertoli cells ,  which are tall ,  columnar type cells that line the tubule
an epithelium that is part of a upper respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lacrimal gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the kidney luminar surfaces
any epithelium that lines one of the bile ducts .
an epithelium that is part of a extrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a intrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a medulla that is part of a thyroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle tissue in all or part of a hepatic duct .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a epididymis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a lymph node  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a mesentery that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a connective tissue that surrounds a skeletal muscle tissue .
a gland that is part of a eye .
a sympathetic nerve trunk that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a part of the epithalamus present in some animal species .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the future body wall  -  underlies the ectoderm [ wp ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the urogenital ridge which is the source of much of the urinary system [ wp ]  .
one of of the pair of folds derived from the cloacal folds which give rise to a portion of the external genitalia ;  in male embryos they close over the urethral plate and fuse to form the spongy  ( penile )  urethra and ventral aspect of the penis ,  not including the glans ;  failure of fusion of the urethral folds leads to hypospadias ;  in female embryos they fuse only anterior to the anus and form the labia minora [ mp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the mouth cavity through pharynx esophagus stomach and duodenum .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
an epithelium surrounding a testis .
an epithelium surrounding an ovary .
a dilation of the duodenal papilla that is the opening of the juncture of the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct .
one of the two small elevations on the mucosa of the duodenum ,  the major at the entrance of the conjoined pancreatic and common bile ducts and the minor at the entrance of the accessory pancreatic duct .
muscular valve that controls the flow of digestive juices  ( bile and pancreatic juice )  through the ampulla of vater into the second part of the duodenum .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a anal region .
a sphincter muscle surrounding the urethra .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a submucosa that is part of a hypopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cecum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an appendix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a transverse colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cardia of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a submucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ejaculatory duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a hypopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an appendix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an ascending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a transverse colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cardia of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a renal pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a male urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a female urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lacrimal sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oropharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a middle ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of the tympanic cavity epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
a mucosa that is part of a nasolacrimal duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mediastinum testis is a network of fibrous connective tissue that extends from the upper to near the lower extremity of the testis ,  and is wider above than below .
an organ part that is part of a long bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external genitalia that is part of a female reproductive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organ that is part of a immune system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a forebrain and adjacent_to a midbrain .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
a product of the somatic follicle cell epithelium and a structure that supports the egg in a hostile environment ,  minimizing water loss whilst allowing gas exchanges essential for embryonic respiration [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud tube that contributes to the morphogenesis of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud that contributes to the morphogenesis of the ureter .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
a bud - like thickening in the epidermis consisting of elongated keratinocytes ,  which at the distal end are in touch with numerous aggregated specialized dermal fibroblasts ,  the dermal condensate .
an tooth placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the tooth bud [ go ]  .
a sebaceous gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sebaceous gland bud [ go ]  .
an sweat gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sweat gland bud [ go ]  .
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a mesonephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metanephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
an epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure [ go ]  .
any smooth muscle tissue that is part of a metanephros .
a metanephric nephron is the functional unit of the metanephros [ go ]  .
metanephric pyramids are the conical masses that constitute the renal medulla in a metanephros ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts [ go ]  .
the metanephric cortical collecting duct is the portion of the metanephric collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex [ go ]  .
the metanephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the metanephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
a metanephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephric nephron ,  the functional part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the metanephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
a cord of epithelial cells without a lumen and usually several cells thick .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
the functional tissue of the central nervous system consisting of neurons and glial cells .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
any portion of the ducts that carry bile from the liver to the common bile duct .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that is part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a circumscribed mass of ectodermal cells which bud off from the dental lamina ;  it becomes cup - shaped and develops on its internal face the ameloblast layer of cells that produces the enamel cap of a developing tooth .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ or element that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
innermost layer of the hair shaft .
the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal medulla
an artery in males that provides blood to the vas deferens .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a larynx submucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
stromal matrix surrounding blood vessels within the choroid plexus .
a capsule that is part of a tonsil  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a valve that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a right lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a left lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a renal pelvis that is part of a metanephros .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a yolk sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that supplies the renal cortex .
artery that receives blood from the renal cortex [ mp ,  modified ] 
a set of structures containing cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a structure found in the walls of the ventricles of the brain ,  consisting of part of the meninges  ( pia mater in mammals )  plus ependyma [ cjm ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the fourth ventricle [ zfa ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the telencephalic ventricle .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the elevation of thickened mesothelium and underlying mesenchyme found on the ventromedial border of the embryonic mesonephros in which the primordial germ cells become embedded ,  establishing it as the primordium of the testis or ovary
cordlike masses of epithelial tissue that invaginate from germinal epithelium of the gonad and give rise to seminiferous tubules and rete testes in the male ,  and primary ovarian follicles and rete ovarii in the female .
structures that develop from sex cords in the female .
the testis cords are precursors to the rete testis .
a zone of skin that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the clitoral glans .
a pronephric nephron is the functional unit of the pronephros [ go ]  .
the pronephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the pronephric nephron and connects the filtration unit  ( glomerulus or glomus )  of the pronephros to the pronephric duct [ go ]  .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
the collecting duct is the final common path through which urine flows before entering the ureter and then emptying into the bladder [ go ]  .
a nephron that is part of a mesonephros .
mesonephric mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the mesonephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
the outer neural tube region in which post - mitotic neuroblasts migrate along radial glia to form the adult cortical layers [ mp ]  .
the cord - like structure in males comprising the vas deferens and associated tissue that runs from the abdomen down to each testis [ mp ]  .
a layer in the central nervous system that lines system of communicating cavities in the brain and spinal cord .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve
an epithelium that lines the nasal cavity .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
an arachnoid mater that surrounds a brain .
a sex gland that is part of a female reproductive system .
a sex gland that is part of a male reproductive system .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a telencephalon .
a gray matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
any of any of the secretory or sensory organs located in the brain region around or in relation to the ventricular system that are characterized by extensive vasculature and a lack of a normal blood brain barrier  ( bbb )  and allow for the linkage between the central nervous system and peripheral blood flow .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb or pectoral fin .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb or pelvic fin .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives [ zfa ]  .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
the short trunk that recieves most of the cardiac veins carrying the blood from the myocardium and delivers it to the right atrium ,  with the sinoatrial connection occurring between the inferior vena cava and the atrioventricular orifice
a segment of autopod that is part of a pes .
a segment of autopod that is part of a manus .
the jugular foramen is a large aperture in the base of the skull .
a thymus lobe that is in the left side of a thymus .
a vitelline vein that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
an axial muscle that originates in the cervical vertebraae inserts on the scapula .
subdivision of abdominal segment of trunk which in humans is demarcated from the front of the abdomen by the posterior surface of the anterior layer of the thoracolumbar fascia and the anterior surface of the lumbar vertebral column ;  together with the front of the abdomen ,  it constitutes the abdomen [ modified from fma ]  .
a space between the capsule and the cortex which allows the free movement of lymphatic fluid and so contains a sparsity of lymphocytes .
a thymus lobe that is in the right side of a thymus .
a vitelline vein that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
trunk part of spinal nerve ,  where dorsal and ventral roots meet to form the spinal nerve ,  before branching off to dorsal and ventral rami .
a longitudinal groove in the neural tube wall that divides the neural tube into dorsal  ( alar )  and ventral  ( basal )  halves  ( dorsal receives input from sensory neurons ,  ventral effects motor functions )  ;  stretches from the mesencephalon caudad [ tmd ]  .
either of the two lateral lobes that constitute the thymus .
the paired veins that carry blood from the yolk sac back to the embryo
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production [ zfa ]  .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
somite located in the head region ,  caudal to the otic vesicle
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
the portion of mesentery attached to the greater curvature of the stomach is named the dorsal mesentery  ( or dorsal mesogastrium ,  when referring to the portion at the stomach )  ,  and the part which suspends the colon is termed the mesocolon .
any of the arteries that arise from a bifurcation of the aorta supplying the pelvic or abdomen .
any of the three veins including the common ,  external and internal iliac veins .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
artery that supplies blood to the adrenal glands .
the cavity formed by the tubotympanic recess epithelium .
portion of ventral mesentery closest to the stomach .
a vascular network formed by frequent anastomoses between the blood vessels  ( arteries or veins )  of a part .
intrinsic membrane that arises from embryonic germ layers and grow to surround the developing embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a caecum .
an epithelium that is part of a pylorus .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 5 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
a mesothelium that is part of a peritoneal cavity .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
a mesentery that is part of a caecum .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a midgut .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a caecum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 5 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 5 .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a foregut .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a midgut .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a footplate .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb or paired fin [ gilbert , modified ]  .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
the metanephros develops from the most caudal part of the nephrogenic cord that is itself derived from the intermediate plate mesoderm .
the initial renal anlage that develops from the most rostral part of the nephrogenic cord is termed the pronephros .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
nephric tubules  ( nephrons )  form embryonically along the nephric ridge .
any portion of the aorta including the ascending and descending aorta ,  and aortic arch or a portion of the aortic orifice of the left ventricle .
the dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body .
in the circulatory system of animals ,  a portal venous system occurs when a capillary bed drains into another capillary bed through veins ,  without first going through the heart .
a bone tissue that is part of a long bone .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a caudal region .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
the paired dorsal prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo that unite with the ipsilateral medial nasal process to form the upper jaw
an indentation of the olfactory placode which ends when the pits hollows out to form the nasopharynx [ go ]  .
a groove that is situated between the 1st and 2nd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal arch .
the embryonic anlage of the external genitalia ,  which emerges as paired swellings ventral to the cloacal membrane ,  is proposed to be derived from all three germ layers ,  and gives rise to the penis ,  clitoris ,  scrotum ,  labia ,  and foreskin
an external pocketing of pharyngeal ectoderm that contacts a region of endoderm  ( a pharyngeal pouch )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions by the pharyngeal arches .
a subdivision of the autopod that corresponds to one or more bones arranged in series branching from the main limb axis .
a subdivision of skeleton that supports pharyngeal arch 2 .
the epithelial lining of the surface of the coelom .
a bone that is part of the region of the hindlimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is part of the manus skeleton .
a bone that is part of the pes skeleton
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles .
each seminal vesicle consists of a single tube ,  coiled upon itself ,  and giving off several irregular cecal diverticula ;  the separate coils ,  as well as the diverticula ,  are connected together by fibrous tissue .
any of the ducts that are part of a male reproductive system .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
a naris that provides one of the small external openings of the head that give passage to air for breathing .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
a pore - like structure surrounding the entire circumference of the anterior chamber of the eye through which aqueous humor circulates [ mp ]  .
a sheet of somatopleure that grows upward over the embryo and eventually meets in the midline enclosing the embryo ,  eventually giving rise to the amnion and chorion [ kardong ]  .
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
the supporting bundles of muscular fibers lining the walls of the atrial myocardium
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
the paired arteries that carry blood to the yolk sac from the dorsal aorta
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
a digit that is part of a digit 1 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 5 plus metapodial segment .
a collection of two or more connected limb segments .
a process projection from a part of the vertebra such as centrum or arches .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod .
a bone that is part of a post - anal tail .
subdivision of an organism along anterior - posterior axis that is the posteriormost region ,  extending past the anus  ( or cloaca ,  if present )  ,  consisting of a tail in some fully formed chordates  ( or a tail bud in embryos )  .
that portion of the spine comprising the cervical vertebrae .
that part of the spine comprising the thoracic vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the lumbar subdivision of the body ,  containing the lumbar vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the caudal subdivision of the body ,  containing the caudal vertebrae .
a collection of all skeletal elements in some subdivision of the vertebral column .
the mesonephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the mesonephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
acute angle occurring between the iris and the cornea at the periphery of the anterior chamber of the eye [ mp ]  .
the spiral septum that separates the truncus arteriosus into a ventral pulmonary trunk and the dorsal aorta [ mp ]  .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 that develop into the folds of the pinna and gradually shift upwards and backwards to their final position on the head .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
the posterior section of the developing metencephalon recognized transiently within the vertebrate embryo ;  the rhombic lip extends posteriorly from the roof of the fourth ventricle to dorsal neuroepithelial cell and can be divided into eight structural units based on rhombomeres 1 - 8  ( r1 - r8 )  ,  recognized at early stages of hindbrain development ;  producing granule cells and five brainstem nuclei ,  the rhombic lip plays an important role in developing a complex cerebellar neural system
the membrane that covers the embryonic cloaca ,  formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm ;  the urorectal septum joins the cloacal membrane and divides it into an anal membrane and a urogenital membrane ;  the point where the urorectal septum intersects the cloacal membrane is the future site of the perineal body ;  proliferation of mesoderm and ectoderm around the cloacal membrane produces primordial tissues of the external genitalia in both sexes: the genital tubercle ,  genital folds ,  and genital swellings .
the foremost region of the future forebrain that develops into the diencephalon .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a female reproductive system .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the foregut and midgut .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
a tendon that has the potential to develop into a central tendon .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain .
a sac - like cavity ventral to the liver ,  lying in the sub - mesodermal space and closed by a thin sheet of ectodermal cells ,  from which the future gall bladder develops .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a male reproductive system .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
groove between maxillary prominence and lateral nasal process .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
the pair of depressions of thickened otic placode epithelium ,  that further develops into the otic vesicles
each of the canals that links the peritoneal cavity and the caudal part of a pleural cavity .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
future brain vesicle that gives rise to telencephalic ventricle / lateral ventricles and 3rd ventricle
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a dense syncitial - like mesenchymal thickening in the dorsal mesogastrium [ isbn ]  .
a stapes endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a submandibular gland .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a brainstem .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a lateral ventricle .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a fourth ventricle .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
the unique bone located in the glans penis of most mammals except humans ;  it is used for copulation and varies in size and shape by species
the ossified region of endochondral and membranous bone located in the clitoris of most mammals except humans ;  it is homologous to the penile bone  ( aka as baculum ,  penis bone or os penis )  in male mammals
a substance formed from the secretion of one or more glands of the male genital tract in which sperm cells are suspended .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a male reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a female reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
a vasculature that is part of a kidney .
a tube in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
an organ system subdivision that is a network of vessels capable of removing accumulating protein and fluid from the interstitial space and returning it to the vascular space .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
a urethral meatus that is part of a female urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a hypothalamus .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a diencephalon .
the pectinate line  ( anocutaneous line ,  dentate line ,  anorectal junction )  is a line which divides the upper 2 / 3rds and lower 1 / 3rd of the anal canal .
an organ that is part of a vestibular system .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
a cartilaginous joint that connects left and right mandibles / dentary bones .
exoskeleton or shell ,  including those of mollusks ,  turtles ,  insects and crustaceans .
an external ear that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
an external ear that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
an artery with its origin in the lateral terminal branch of the internal thoracic artery ,  with distribution to the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles ,  and with anastomoses to the branches of the pericardiacophrenic and inferior phrenic .
a muscle layer that is part of a fallopian tube .
an adventitia that is part of a epididymis .
a muscle layer that is part of a epididymis .
an adventitia that is part of a vas deferens .
an adventitia that is part of a seminal vesicle .
erectile tissue at the end of the clitoris ,  which is continuous with the intermediate part of the vestibulovaginal bulbs [ bto ]  .
anatomical cavity for the proximal articular surface of the proximal limb or fin element with the scapulocoracoid or equivalent structure .
a joint that connects one phalanx to another along a proximodistal axis .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
on the interior surface of the temporal bone ,  behind the rough surface of the apex ,  is the large circular aperture of the carotid canal ,  which ascends at first vertically ,  and then ,  making a bend ,  runs horizontally forward and medialward .
the three - lobed cloverleaf - shaped aponeurosis situated at the center of the diaphragm ;  the central tendon is fused with the fibrous pericardium that provides attachment for the muscle fibers
a valve that is part of a vein .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the hypoglossal canal is a bony canal in the occipital bone of the skull .
a vein that is part of a vertebral column .
a conduit enclosed within the vertebral foramen of the vertebrae through which the spinal cord passes .
a vasculature that is part of a cerebellum .
the third segment of the limb ,  including either the wrist segment  ( carpus )  or the ankle segment  ( tarsus ) 
the collection of all skeletal elements in an autopodium region .
during the third week of embryological development there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
during the third week there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
the hemispheric articular surface at the upper extremity of the thigh bone [ stedman ,  26th ed ]  .
an epithelium that is composed primarily of secretory cells .
structural framework that provides support to the nasal sacs and ducts .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a trachea .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
endochondral bone that is dorsoventrally compressed and provides attachment site for muscles of the pectoral appendage .
a muscular coat that is part of a ureter .
this gland can either be a discrete structure located bilaterally above each kidney ,  or a cluster of cells in the head kidney that perform the functions of the adrenal gland .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between two metaphyses .
a diaphysis that is part of a femur [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a distal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a metaphysis that is part of a femur .
the distalmost portion of the digestive tract ,  derived from the hindgut ,  and terminating with the anus .
a gland that secretes a seminal fluid .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the pes  ( foot ) 
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a handplate .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the manus  ( hand ) 
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a vasculature that is part of a liver .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
the lateral surface parts of the external nose ,  inferiorly ,  surrounding the naris [ eom ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of squamous cells only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
a non - keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a esophagus .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a stomach .
the squamous epithelium of the cervical portio is similar to that of the vagina ,  except that it is generally smooth and lacks rete pegs .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a vagina .
a glandular epithelium that lines the stomach .
any gland that is part of the digestive system .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
stomach mucosa that is lined with glandular epithelium and part of a stomach glandular region .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
the epithelial cells lining the capsule and trabeculae of the thymus
the epithelial cell layer containing the sensory hair cells and their associated sensory nerve terminals
an epithelium that is part of a pinna .
the efferent ducts  ( or efferent ductules or ductuli efferentes )  connect the rete testis with the initial section of the epididymis .
a duct or series of ducts that transports sperm from the gonad .
an epithelium that is part of a efferent duct .
the ejaculatory duct epithelium is composed of cuboidal to columnar cells between or through which project the terminal parts of the ducts of the unicellular prostate glands .
an epithelium that is part of a uterus .
the inner lining of the cheeks and lips .
an epithelium that is part of a submandibular gland primordium .
the stroma of the ovary is a peculiar soft tissue ,  abundantly supplied with blood vessels ,  consisting for the most part of spindle - shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
a multicellular organism that is at the juvenile stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
one of the minute vascular projections of the fetal chorion that combines with maternal uterine tissue to form the placenta .
the femur neck or neck of the femur is a flattened pyramidal process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft ,  and forming with the latter a wide angle opening medialward .
a pharyngeal pouch that is between pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 .
a pharyngeal puch that is between the pharyngeal arches 2 and 3 .
a pharyngeal pouch that between pharyngeal arches 3 and 4 .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a left common carotid artery plus branches .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a right common carotid artery plus branches .
an embryonic structure that will either develop into a post - anal tail or recede into a vestigial remnant of the tail .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a midgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a hindgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a anal canal .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a colon .
the medial border of the scapula  ( vertebral border ,  medial margin )  is the longest of the three borders ,  and extends from the medial to the inferior angle .
a lamina propria that is part of a colonic mucosa .
a serous membrane that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a muscle layer that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
the stroma of the bone marrow is all tissue not directly involved in the primary function of hematopoiesis .
the structure from the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and bronchioles that forms the airways that supply air to the lungs .
multicellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
the vasculature consisting of brachiocephalic arteries and veins .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a trunk neural crest .
an embryo stage that covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
any of the nuclei that comprise the superior olivary complex  ( superior olive )  .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a cervical region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a thoracic region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a lumbar region of vertebral column .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a trachea .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
skeletal subdivision consisting of the anterior appendicular limb skeleton ,  excluding the pectoral girdle .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic appendage region .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain - midbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a blood vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
a dense accumulation of exocrine glands in the pancreas often surrounding islets of langerhans .
a duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas to the intestine .
an anatomical surface that is part of a tongue .
the upper  ( superior )  side of the tongue .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
the yellow spheroidal mass of stored food that forms the inner portion of the egg of a bird or reptile and is surrounded by the white .
the hard - shelled reproductive body produced by a bird and especially by the common domestic chicken ;  also: its contents used as food .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a paired limb or fin .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a nucleus of brain that spans a midbrain tegmentum .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a collection of connected epithelial tubes with a single portal .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
a ring of smooth muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchyme whose cells are embedded in obvious amounts of extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
a ciliated columnar epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
a cuboidal epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
stratified columnar epithelia is a rare type of epithelial tissue composed of column shaped cells arranged in multiple layers .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
a synovial cavity of joint that is part of a hip joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
a neural nucleus that is part of a medulla oblongata .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
a lymph node that is part of a thorax .
a developing mesenchymal capsule that covers the developing brain and spinal cord and is the precursor of the meningeal cluster .
the innermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  primarily of neural crest origin .
the outermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  of mixed paraxial mesoderm and neural crest origin .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
a sphincter that is part of an esophagus .
functional unit of the kidney that forms urine ,  consisting of two parts ,  the nephron and the collecting tubule .
region of the embryo into the area in which the kidney rudiment will develop .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
endodermal bud derived from the endodermal epithelium of the embryonic pharyngeal floor [ mp ]  .
the minute opening of a taste bud on the surface of the oral mucosa through which the gustatory hairs of the specialised neuroepithelial gustatory cells project .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a thalamus .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
the interphalangeal articulations of the foot  ( articulations of the phalanges )  are ginglymoid joints ,  and each has a plantar and two collateral ligaments .
the interphalangeal articulations of hand are hinge - joints of the phalanges of the hand .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 1 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 5 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any portion of sweat that is produced by a sweat gland of the scrotum .
any sweat gland that is part of a scrotum .
an endothelium that is part of a umbilical artery .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
a bridge of mesoderm connecting the caudal end of the young embryo with the trophoblastic tissues ;  the precursor of the umbilical cord .
a vasculature that is part of a connecting stalk .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
a tail that extends from the posterior tip of the organism to the anus ,  contains muscle and skeleton .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
mesentery that is located in the peritoneum .
external part of the nose containing the external nares .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a bone element or fused bone that is part of pelvic girdle .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
skeletal subdivision consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb zeugopodium and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb and caudal musculature .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
the irregular bones are bones which ,  from their peculiar form ,  cannot be grouped as long bone ,  short bone ,  flat bone or sesamoid bone .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a anatomical surface that is part of a cartilage element .
a bone that is hollow or contains many air cells ,  such as the mastoid process of the temporal bone [ tmd ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the pelvis .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
subdivision of thorax ,  which in humans is the posterior part of the thorax and is demarcated from the chest by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage and the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column ;  together with the chest ,  it constitutes the thorax .
a muscle of back that is part of a lower back .
a muscle of back that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
a knoblike tooth primordium that develops into the mature tooth and consists of enamel organ ,  dental papilla ,  and dental sac enclosing them .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a nasopharynx .
with numerous vascular spaces that may become engorged with blood
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a clitoris .
an intestinal villus in the duodenum .
an intestinal villus in the ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a duodenum .
an epithelium that is part of a breast .
epithelium pertaining to the trachea and bronchi .
an epithelium that is part of a buccal mucosa .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
intertarsal articulations are the joints of the tarsus .
any muscle organ that is part of an nose .
a muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
an embryonic structure that is derived from the inner cell mass and lies above the hypoblast and gives rise to the three primary germ layers
the dorsal venous arch of the foot is a superficial vein that connects the small saphenous vein and the great saphenous vein .
a limb segment that is part of a hindlimb .
a limb segment that is part of a forelimb .
any of the three large depressions in the posterior ,  middle ,  and anterior aspects of the floor of the cranial cavity
a zone of skin that is part of a cheek .
an external organ of a male organism that is specialized to deliver sperm during copulation .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
an endoderm that is part of a thymus primordium .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
any duct branching of of the main epididymis duct .
an out - pocket of thickened ventral foregut epithelium adjacent to the developing heart .
a ligament that does not connect two skeletal elements .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements [ vsao , modified ]  .
the smooth muscle layer of the stomach wall that functions to churn and mix food and gastric secretions as well as to move food along the digestive tract to the intestines
the short narrow part of the stomach extending from the pyloric antrum to the pyloric sphincter
a gastric gland in the cardiac region of the stomach ;  cardiac glands are fewer in number than in the fundus and body ,  and secrete mucin which coats the stomach and protects it [ mp ] 
the gastric glands in the pyloric region of the stomach ;  the pyloric glands secrete mucin ,  which coats the stomach and protects it ,  and hormones such as gastrin and enkephalin [ mp ]  .
any skeletal muscle organ in the hypodermis  /  superficial fascia
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
the hemorrhoidal plexus  ( or rectal venous plexus )  surrounds the rectum ,  and communicates in front with the vesical venous plexus in the male ,  and the uterovaginal plexus in the female .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
a pharyngeal arch that is posterior to the hyoid arch .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm [ vsao ]  .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
albumen is the clear liquid contained within an egg and consists of water and proteins ,  among which are ovomucin and ovomucoid .
a parenchyma that is part of a lung .
a bone that is part of a forelimb region .
the functional tissue of the kidney ,  consisting of the nephrons .
one of the racemose glands in the walls of the esophagus that in humans are small and serve principally to lubricate the food but in some birds secrete a milky fluid on which the young are fed .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
any portion of tissue that surrounds a urethra .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower back .
a zone of skin that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
an artery that supplies blood to the urinary bladder .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
the prostatic veins form a well - marked prostatic plexus which lies partly in the fascial sheath of the prostate and partly between the sheath and the prostatic capsule .
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
the uterus in pregnancy
a mature thymus that is entirely part of the cervical region .
a mature thymus that is entirely part of thoracic region .
a gonad prior to differentiating into a definitive testis or ovary .
the adenohypophyseal placode forms the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and gives rise to the endocrine secretory cells of the pituitary
rostralmost epibranchial placode .associated with 1st branchial cleft .
epibranchial placode between geniculate and nodose .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
a fold of tissue which extends into the peritoneal cavity of the developing embryo and participates in the separation of the pleural and peritoneal cavities .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
any suture between cranial and / or facial bones .
any suture between facial bones .
the limb epidermis is the outer epithelial layer of the limb ,  it is a complex stratified squamous epithelium .
a nephric duct is a tube that drains a primitive kidney [ go ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
an ectoderm that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
a thin fold of ectoderm and endoderm that separates the pharyngeal pouches from the pharyngeal clefts in a developing embryo .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the first pharyngeal cleft from the first pharyngeal pouch .
cartilaginous form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
the superior surface of the tongue divided by the sulcus terminalis into an anterior two - thirds ,  the presulcal part  ( pars presulcalis )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a otic placode .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
mesenchyme that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a mesentery that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
an epithelium that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
anatomical region that surrounds the otic vesicle .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the frontonasal region of the head
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trachea .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing middle ear .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
an epithelium that is part of a lateral lingual swelling .
mesenchyme that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a maxillary prominence .
a vascular plexus that is part of a left lung .
a vascular plexus that is part of a right lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a submandibular gland primordium .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a segment of a digit containing the distal phalanx ,  and overlapping the distal interphalangeal joint [ cjm ]  .
a segment of the manual digit containing the distal phalanx
a segment of the pedal digit containing the distal phalanx .
a skeletal joint that connects a mesopodium bone and connects a proximal phalanx .
a submucosa that is part of a intestine .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the trunk of the body ,  containing the trunk / presacral vertebrae .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future spinal cord .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future medulla oblongata .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future metencephalon .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future myelencephalon .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a future forebrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
bilateral mesenchymal mesoderm parallel and immediately adjacent to the neural tube / notochord ;  it generates a subset of extra - ocular ,  and other head ,  muscles .
a somite that is part of a tail .
the lumbar nerves are the five spinal nerves emerging from the lumbar vertebrae .
a sympathetic nerve trunk that is part of a lower back .
one of the two epithelia which make up the tympanic membrane  ( along with the fibrous layer ) 
a basement membrane that is part of a nephron tubule .
a basement membrane that is part of a bronchus .
a basement membrane that is part of a trachea .
an artery that supplies oxygenated blood to the ear .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a telencephalon .
ventral mesentery is the part of the peritoneum closest to the navel .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a embryonic cloaca .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a rectum .
the nasal fin is an epithelial seam that develops by fusion between the epithelial linings of the medial and lateral nasal swellings .
the oronasal membrane separates the oral cavity and nasal cavity .
anatomical cluster consisting of adjacent teeth constituting a row .
a tooth row that is part of a skeleton of lower jaw .
a epithelium that is part of a hypopharynx .
a epithelium that is part of a vermiform appendix .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the channels in the lymph node medulla that separate the medullary cords and are crossed by a reticulum of cells and fibers and bounded by littoral cells ;  lymph flows through the medullary sinus from the cortical sinuses and into the efferent lymphatic vessels
the dense rope - like structures of lymphatic tissue located between the medullary sinuses in the medulla of a lymph node
the primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing limbs ,  autopods and digits ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to limb connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with myotome cells .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing pancreas
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a proximal phalanx to either a medial or distal phalanx .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a distal phalanx to either a medial or proximal phalanx .
a renal tubule is a tube that filters ,  re - absorbs and secretes substances to rid an organism of waste and to play a role in fluid homeostasis .
a serous sac that has the pleura and the pleural cavity as parts .
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
a solid cord of prostate epithelium .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a primitive urogenital sinus .
mesenchyme that surrounds primitive urogenital sinus .
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
a specific region of the urogenital sinus epithelium into the area in which the prostate gland will develop .
the part of the uterus above the isthmus and below the orifices of the uterine tubes .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a division of the stomach .
outer portion of the renal cortex .
intermediate segment of the autopod ,  between the mesopodial region and and acropodial region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a mesopodium .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of endochondral elements distal to the zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the posterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of the endochondral elements distal to the anterior limb / fin zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the anterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
a renal ,  cortical lobule ,  consisting of the ascending or descending limbs of the loop of henle or of the collecting tubules ;  medullary rays are regions where parallel arrays of straight tubules travel perpendicular to the capsule and extend from the cortex to the medulla .
an artery that supplies a renal lobe .
the interlobar veins are veins of the renal circulation which drain the renal lobes .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
a portion of an organ ,  such as the liver ,  lung ,  breast ,  or brain .
the portion of a kidney consisting of a renal medullary pyramid and the renal cortex above it [ mp ]  .
the portion of a renal lobe consisting of nephrons grouped around a single medullary ray and draining into a single collecting duct ;  human kidneys have multilobular ,  multipapillary architecture while mice and rats have unilobular ,  unipapillary kidneys
an anatomical wall that is part of a ureter .
the region demarcating the renal medulla from the surrounding cortex ;  end - stage renal failure may be associated with loss of the normal corticomedullary boundary
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the epithelium of the ureter
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urinary bladder .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a oropharynx .
an epithelium that is part of a pancreatic duct .
the junction between the ureter and the renal pelvis of the kidney
the valve - like structure found at the site of entry of the ureter into the urinary bladder ,  normally displays an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux of urine up the ureters and the kidney
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
the dorsal portion of the embryonic first endodermal pharyngeal pouch ;  it develops into the middle ear cavity .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
the portion of the tongue in front of the terminal sulcus .
an organ of the digestive tract that is capable of retaining and storing food
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch maxillary component .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
a mucosa that is part of a dorsum of tongue .
a stapes endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a compound organ that has the potential to develop into a tongue .
an anatomical space with at least one opening to another space or the exterior .
a portion of the external acoustic meatus epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
the intermediate fibrous layer of the tympanic membrane .
organ system subdivision that consists primarily of chromaffin cells and their supporting structures .
one of the 5 distinct and partially overlapping functional domains of the premigratory neural crest .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
an extrahepatic bile duct that has the potential to develop into a common hepatic duct .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a structure that will develop into a diaphragm .
a multi - tissue structure that has the potential to develop into a meninx of hindbrain .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a metencephalon .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a facial nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a superior salivatory nucleus .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the autopod  ( e .g .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli
a circumventricular organ that is capable of secreting substances into the cerebrospinal fluid .
a circumventricular organ that is capable of monitoring the levels of substances to the cerebrospinal fluid .
a sex cord that is part of a indifferent gonad .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a seminal vesicle .
any gland ,  other than the gonad ,  associated with the genital tract ,  such as the ampulla of the ductus deferens and the bulbourethral ,  prostate and vesicular glands of the male .
a mucous secretion that is produced by glands in the epidermis .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a lymphatic vessel .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
the distal end of the tail
an anatomical cluster that composed_primarily_of a strand of hair .
a collection of hairs that is part of a face .
a strand of hair that is part of a face .
a trabecula that is part of a liver
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the penile urethra
an urethral gland that is part of a female urethra .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
the paired arterial structures of the embryo that supplies each developing somite via efferent segmental arteries ;  the dorsal aortae articulate with the umbilical arteries ,  which return mixed blood to the villi of the chorion for reoxygenation
one of the laterally paired arteries that supply the gonads .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
a vasculature that is part of a post - anal tail .
apparatus located between the lungs and the buccal cavity .
a nuclear complex which in mammals consists of four parts ,  the hypothalamus ,  epithalamus ,  ventral thalamus ,  and dorsal thalamus [ wp , modified ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
the connective tissue that supports the lobules and follicles of the thyroid gland .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
one of the three blood vessels ,  usually one large umbilical vein and two small umbilical arteries ,  buried within wharton's jelly ,  that transport blood to and from the placenta ,  where exchange between the mother and fetus takes place ;  the umbilical vein carries oxygenated ,  nutrient - rich blood from the placenta to the fetus ,  and the umbilical arteries carry deoxygenated ,  nutrient - depleted blood from the fetus to the placenta .
a group of bones comprised of hyoid body and two pairs of cornua  ( i .e .
a zone of bone organ that is part of a hyoid bone .
any anatomical space that is part of a vertebral column .
a minute orifice on the summit of the papillae lacrimales ,  which is the commencement point of the lacrimal canaliculi .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
a stroma that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesizes but does not accumulate keratin .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb / fin bud .
an epithelium that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a extraembryonic membrane .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
the first step in ossification of the cartilage is that the cartilage cells ,  at the point where ossification is commencing and which is termed a ossification center ,  enlarge and arrange themselves in rows .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
the smallest anatomical unit of the lung ,  measuring 0 .50 to 2 .00 cm in diameter .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a hypopharynx .
the segment of the rib that connects to a vertebra [ mp ]  .
an organ cavity that is part of a urethra .
one of the branches of the splenic artery [ mp ] 
one of the veins that feed the splenic vein
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
an orifice that is part of a lower urinary tract .
a naris that is located inside the nasal cavity and connects to the pharynx .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a bone that is shaped as a broad flat plate and composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue ,  which is the location of red bone marrow .
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
an organ cavity that surrounded_by a bone .
an epithelial tube that is fated to become a nephron .
the metanephric cortex is the outer region of the metanephros [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster which give rise to mature mesonephric nephrons .
a primitive nephron that is part of a metanephros .
cluster of cells comprising a portion of tissue which gives rise to new mesonephric nephrons .
an appendage segment that is part of a limb / fin .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the autopodium  -  i .e .
the metacarpus is the intermediate part of the manus skeleton that is located between the phalanges  ( bones of the fingers )  distally and the carpus which forms the connection to the forearm .
limb segment that consists of the long bones of the pes .
subdivision of skeleton that corresponds to metapodium region ,  between acropodial skeleton and mesopdoial skeleton .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 1 .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the manual autopodium  -  i .e .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 1 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the tarsal skeleton .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the pedal autopodium  -  i .e .
mesenchyme of the digit region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an forelimb zeugopod region .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendicular skeleton and the pelvic girdle .
skeletal subdivision that is a segment of the limb skeleton .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb zeugopod region .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
a bone that is part of a pelvic complex .
the collection of all meningeal layers that line a central nervous system .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along an axis perpedicular to the main body anterior - posterior axis .
a skin of neck that is part of a throat .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of cartilage tissue .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of pre - cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
muscles of the pelvic girdle ,  hindlimb or pelvic fin .
a muscle of a pectoral girdle ,  pectoral fin or anterior limb .
am unpaired external naris that lies in the midline of the head .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
any muscle organ that is part of either the head or the neck .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a right pelvic girdle region .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a left pelvic girdle region .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
the cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the pre - cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the lacrimal nerve is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 5 .
a synovial joint that is part of a pelvic girdle region .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the tarsometatarsal articulations are arthrodial joints in the pes .
the carpometacarpal joints  ( cmc )  are joints in the wrist that articulates the distal row of carpal bones and the proximal bases of the metacarpal bones .
a skeletal joint that connects a laryngeal cartilage .
a skeletal joint that connects two adjacent metacarpals [ fma , modified ]  .
a skeletal joint that connects two carpal bones .
a joint that connects two adjacent metatarsals
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
a cartilage element that lies between two successive vertebral centra .
ligament that joins successive centra .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
any synovial joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
surface structure that extends from the chin covering pharynx and larynx .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a bone that is part of a neurocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the gastrointestinal system
a lamina propria that is part of a large intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a parathyroid gland .
a muscle layer that is part of a large intestine .
a muscle layer that is part of a small intestine .
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons .
the most anterior region of the braincase .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
a bone that is part of a autopod region .
scent glands are exocrine glands found in most mammals .
a carpometacarpal joint that connects to metacarpal 1 .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the uterine tube .
a portion of gray matter that is part of a telencephalon .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a lymph vasculature that is part of a head .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis or clitoris .
a zone of skin that is part of a prepuce of clitoris .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a esophagus .
a tube lumen that is part of a mesonephric duct .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb or fin .
proximal element of a free limb skeleton consisting of the femur and humerus in the forelimb stylopodium and hindlimb stylopodium respectively [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
section of the forelimb skeleton located between the stylopodium and the autopodium .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
odontogenic tissue that is collagen - rich and characteristic of vertebrate teeth and tooth - like structures  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  deposited by preodontoblasts and odontoblasts that are typically excluded from the matrix .
cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
tooth that is attached to a dentary / mandible [ tao , modified ]  .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and  ( in teleosts )  articulates with the neurocranium dorsally and the opercle posteriorly [ tao , modified ]  .
cartilage form of the hyomandibular element .
the upper paired deep bone or cartilage of the hyoid region ,  sometimes taking part in jaw suspension and which supports the opercle .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
limb extensor that runs from ilium to femur .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a vertebra in the trunk region .
a tarsal bone that connected_to a hindlimb zeugopod skeleton .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
paired structures in the embryo that represent the final stage of development of the caudal end of the external genitals before sexual differentiation .
a genital swelling that is part of a female reproductive system .
a genital swelling that is part of a male reproductive organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of cartilage tissue .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of lower jaw .
a cranial nerve nucleus that is associated with a vagus nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of the spinal cord .
a nerve that is part of a head .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
an ectodermal placode that gives rise to any of the cutaneous appendages that protrude from the skin epidermis  ( heair ,  feathers ,  epidermal scales )  .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
a duct that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a salivary gland .
an acinus that is part of a lacrimal gland .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of tendon tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of corneal stroma that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
a muscle layer that is part of a wall of esophagus .
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
a organ cavity that is part of a vagina .
epimysium is a layer of connective tissue which ensheaths the entire muscle .
masses of developing blood cells attached to endothelium in the yolk sac
hair in the nose
an epidermal invagination that has as parts a hair follicle ,  a sebaceous gland ,  and arrector pili muscle
a region of the stomach that is lined with glandular epithelium .
a hepatic vein that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic vein that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an articular capsule that is part of the glenohumeral joint .
an articular capsule that is part of the hip joint .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manus .
a joint that connects the bones of the crus to the proximal tarsal bones
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
the cavity within a myotome
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a bronchus .
a salivary gland that is part of a cheek .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
outermost point on an external nose or snout
a segment of the autopod consisting of both acropodial region and metapodial region ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial region .
a digitopodium region that is part of a manus [ obol ]  .
a digitopodium region that is part of a pes [ obol ]  .
a subdivision of the autopod skeleton consisting of both acropodial skeleon and metapodial skeleton ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial skeleton .
a subdivision of the manus skeleton consisting of both manual acropodial skeleton and metacarpal skeleton ,  but excluding the carpal skeleton .
a subdivision of the pes skeleton consisting of both pedal acropodial skeleton and metatarsal skeleton ,  but excluding the tarsal skeleton .
blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth [ wp ]  .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a stomach .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
the veins that run parallel to the phrenic arteries which include the two superior and two inferior phrenic veins .
network of tubes that carries blood through the distensible musculomembranous organ that serves to collect and store urine excreted by the kidneys [ mp ] 
external opening or orifice of the urethra through which urine and seminal fluid  ( in males only )  leave the body ;  in males the meatus presents as a vertical slit normally positioned at the tip of glans penis ;  in females the meatus is located between the clitoris and the vagina in the vulvular vestibule of the female genitalia [ mp ]  .
a urethral meatus that is part of a male urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the usually crescent - shaped opening of the urinary bladder into the urethra ,  placed at the anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  of the urinary bladder trigone
mucus - secreting glands in the mucosa of the uterine cervix
lining of the head of the uterus  ( cervix )  ;  contains large branched glands ;  does not undergo sloughing .
the part of the cervix uteri that protrudes into the vagina and is lined with stratified squamous epithelium .
a glandular epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix .
a epithelium that is part of a ectocervix .
the glandular epithelium that lines the endocervix .
region of cervical epithelium where columnar epithelium of endocervic and the stratified non - keratinising squamous epithelium of the ectocervic meet
an artery that originates from the abdominal aorta
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
the nasal glands are the seromucous glands in the respiratory region of the nasal mucous membrane .
a holocrine gland that is part of the pilosebaceous unit of a hair located in the area around the anus .
one of the pair of mesenchymal swellings  ( folds )  located on either side of the cloacal membrane during the indifferent stage of embryonic development ;  cranial to the cloacal membrane the folds unite to form the genital tubercle ;  caudally the folds are subdivided into urogenital folds anteriorly and anal folds posteriorly
a mucosa that is part of a urethra .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
the median slit located inferior and posterior to the external urethral orifice in the female ;  the exit for menstrual flow and birth and the entrance for the penis during sexual intercourse ;  the size and appearance of the vaginal orifice varies inversely with that of the hymen  ( g . membrane )  ,  a thin fold of mucous membrane that surrounds the vaginal orifice
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesize and accumulate keratin .
the lymphocytic cell population present in the mucosa of the nasopharyngeal duct of some animals .
a broad fold of peritoneum that extends from the side of the uterus to the wall of the pelvis .
a zone of skin that is part of the area surrounding the anus .
any exocrine gland whose secretion consists of its own disintegrated secretory cells along with its secretory product ;  holocrine secretions are produced in the cytoplasm of the cell and released by the rupture of the plasma membrane ,  which destroys the cell and results in the secretion of the product into the lumen .
the segment of the autopod that is distal to the metapodial region and consists of the digits .
the segment of the manus that is distal to the metacarpal region and consists of the manual digits  ( fingers )  .
the segment of the pes that is distal to the metatarsal region and consists of the pedal digits  ( toes )  .
a bone that is part of a the digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the manual digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the pedal digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
a muscle layer that is part of an intestine .
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
a muscular coat that is part of a urinary bladder .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
a layer of microvilli ,  thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments [ go , modified ] 
a microvillus layer that is striated and found in the intestine .
blood - forming tissue ,  consisting of reticular fibers and cells .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a cloaca .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a terminal part of digestive tract .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
triangular calcified papillae  ( often five )  placed radially around the anus of some holothuriidae
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic complex  -  i .e .
the posterior region of the neck ,  including the suboccipital region .
a gland that is part of a cloaca .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
a submucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a cloaca .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a vagina .
a muscular coat that is part of a duodenum .
a muscular coat that is part of a colon .
a muscular coat that is part of a anal canal .
a serous membrane that is part of a vermiform appendix .
a serous membrane that is part of a fallopian tube .
a adventitia that is part of a esophagus .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a umbilical cord .
a anatomical junction that connects a stomach and connects a duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a gastroduodenal junction .
the subdivision of the digestive tract that consists of the colon and the rectum .
a mucosa that is part of a colorectum .
a vein that is part of a abdomen .
a vein that drains a lip .
a nonskeletal ligament that is part of a liver .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
one of two arteries  ( anterior and posterior choroidal artery )  that supply blood to the choroid plexus ,  optic tract ,  hippocampus ,  globus pallidus ,  and other various brain regions .
a gland that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_left_side_of a telencephalon .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_right_side_of a telencephalon .
the layer of the ovarian stroma lying immediately beneath the tunica albuginea ,  composed of connective tissue cells and fibers ,  among which are scattered primary and secondary  ( antral )  follicles in various stages of development ;  the cortex varies in thickness according to the age of the individual ,  becoming thinner with advancing years ;  included in the follicles are the cumulus oophorus ,  membrana granulosa  ( and the granulosa cells inside it )  ,  corona radiata ,  zona pellucida ,  and primary oocyte ;  the zona pellucida ,  theca of follicle ,  antrum and liquor folliculi are also contained in the follicle ;  also in the cortex is the corpus luteum derived from the follicles .
highly vascular stroma found in the center of the ovary that forms from embryonic mesenchyme and contains blood vessels ,  lymphatic vessels ,  and nerves ;  this stroma forms the tissue of the hilum by which the ovarian ligament is attached ,  and through which the blood vessels enter ;  it does not contain any ovarian follicles .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
a future glans that is part of a male genital tubercle .
a future glans that is part of a female genital tubercle .
the precursor of the urethra
a epithelial tube that develops from a mullerian duct in a male .
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
the upper one third of esophagus in which the muscle layer is composed of muscle cells of the striated type .
a thickened round patch of lymphoid tissue located at the ileocecal junction adjacent to the sacculus rotundus .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the panniculus adiposus is the fatty layer of the subcutaneous tissues ,  superficial to a deeper vestigial layer of muscle ,  the panniculus carnosus .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a cloaca .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a lumbar vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a lumbar vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the space that surrounds an organism .
a section through the tube or network of tubes that connects the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the anatomical space that is enclosed by a stomach .
a anatomical cavity that is part of a ear vesicle .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 1 plus metapodial segment .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 5 plus metapodial segment .
short bones are designated as those bones that are as wide as they are long .
a epithelium that is part of a intestinal villus .
the prostate gland lobe that is located on the lateral side of the organ .
a gland that is part of the gular region  ( throat ) 
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
lymphoid tissue located in the appendix .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
vascular endothelium found in colon blood vessels .
the epithelium that forms the surface of the tonsil dips into the underlying connective tissue in numerous places ,  forming crypts kown as tonsillar crypts .
epithelium lining the exocrine pancreas .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
anatomical projection that is part of the integumentl system .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a metaphysis that is part of a metaphysis .
a diaphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
one of two openings in the uterine cervix .
opening of uterine cervix into the body of the uterus .
opening of uterine cervix into the vagina .
the cavity formed by the walls of the cervix .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
a organ cavity that is part of a uterus .
a diaphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
a collection of hairs that is part of a craniocervical region .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the simple cuboidal epithelium lining the lumen of kidney collecting ducts .
a papilla that contain taste buds ,  including the fungiform ,  foliate ,  and circumvallate papillae .
a muscular coat that is part of a ileum .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a sinusoid .
a sinusoidal space that is part of a hepatic sinusoid .
any member of the network of tubes that return blood from the renal tissues to the systemic circulation .
a taste bud that is located on the tongue ,  situated on a gustatory papilla .
a gustatory epithelium that is part of a tongue .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the peritoneal cavity .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs and rib joints in an organism .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a distal interphalangeal joint that is part of a digit 5 .
the deep auricular artery often arises in common with the anterior tympanic artery .
a venous system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a vascular system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a epithelium that is part of a frontonasal prominence .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pleuroperitoneal canal .
a epithelium that is part of a median lingual swelling .
a duct that is located between lobules ,  within the thin connective tissue septa that separate lobules .
the secretory unit of a mucous gland .
a duct that is located within a lobule ,  with no more connective tissue intervening between ducts and secretory units  ( i .e . ,  acini or tubules )  than between adjacent secretory units .
a duct that is located between lobes ,  within conspicuous ,  thick connective tissue septa that separate lobes .
the domain of the diaphragm that is located dorsally and attaches to the vertebrae and surrounds the esophagus and aorta .
a crus of diaphragm that is in_the_right_side_of a diaphragm .
a crus of diaphragm that is in_the_left_side_of a diaphragm .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive forebrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
the lingual septum consists of a vertical layer of fibrous tissue ,  extending throughout the entire length of the median plane of the tongue ,  though not quite reaching the dorsum .
any collection of muscles that is part of the forelimb stylopod region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic complex .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral appendage  ( forelimb or pectoral fin )  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic appendage  ( hindlimb or pelvic fin )  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
one of the primary blood vessel sprouts that originate from the dorsal aorta and posterior cardinal vein and align dorsoventrally at the myotomal boundaries between somites .
the space between a blood vessel and the pia mater .
a vertebral endochondral element in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
a vertebral endochondral element in the thoracic region of the vertebral column .
a lumbar vertebra bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a stapes bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a rib bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a forelimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a hindlimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 1 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 5 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 1 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 5 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 1 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 5 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 1 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 5 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a carpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a tarsus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a femur bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a humerus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a iliac bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a scapula bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a limb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a endochondral element that is part of a autopod region .
a autopod endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a forelimb .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a hindlimb .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
a strand of hair that is part of a autopod region .
a strand of hair that is part of a pes .
a strand of hair that is part of a manus .
a strand of hair that is part of a pinna .
a strand of hair that is part of a tail .
a strand of hair that is part of a dorsum .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
a gland that is located in or around the ocular region ,  nearer the outer canthi .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a blood vessel that is part of a endometrium .
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
the slightly constricted part of a tooth ,  between the crown and the root .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a ligament that is part of a diaphragm .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a cluster in the epithalamus that consists of the pineal body and any associated structures ,  such as the parapineal gland or the parietal organ .
a zone of skin that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_left_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_right_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a mesenchyme that is part of a urethra .
a valve that is part of a ureter .
a lymph node that is part of a hypodermis .
a zone of skin that is part of a external nose .
a zone of skin that is part of a scrotum .
a hepatic artery that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic artery that is part of a right lobe of liver .
hat part of the duodenal wall traversed by the ductus choledochus ,  ductus pancreaticus ,  and ampulla .
a epithelium that is part of a anal canal .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a ejaculatory duct .
a epithelium that is part of a duct of salivary gland .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
any anatomical conduit which is part of the upper respiratory tract
an anatomical chamber that is part of the olfactory apparatus ,  consisting of cavity walls  ( nasal epithelium and mucosal layers )  and the space bounded anteriorly by the nares and posteriorly by the choanae ,  when these structures are present .
a zone of skin that is part of a autopod region .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a digit .
a blood vessel that is part of a liver .
a epithelium that is part of a ear .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a middle ear .
a epithelium that is part of a external ear .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a lamina propria that is part of a duodenum .
a lymph node that is part of a head .
any of the lymph nodes that are part of a face .
a lymph node that is located close to the surface .
a lymph node that is located deeper within the organism ,  further from the surface .
a lymph node that is part of a hindlimb .
a lymph node that is part of a forelimb .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
a breast that is part of a male organism .
subdivision of thorax which includes all structures from the skin to the costal pleura .
a strand of hair that is part of a head .
a strand of hair that is part of a trunk .
a hole in the diaphragm through which the esophagus passes
a stroma that is part of a liver .
a collagenous capsule covering the external surface of the liver .
a lymph node that is part of a bronchus .
is the sensory system for the sense of hearing .
skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
a epithelium that is part of a male urethra .
a anatomical space that is part of a duodenum .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
a epithelium that is part of a female urethra .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
frontal lobe is the anterior - most of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere .
subdivision of telencephalon which is one of a number of subdivisions of each hemisphere separated by both real landmarks  ( sulci and fissures )  and arbitrary boundaries [ fma , modified ]  .
grey matter neocortex region of a lobe of the cerebral hemisphere .
gray matter of the parietal region of the neocortex ,  located in the parietal lobe of gyrencephalic animals .
gray matter of the temporal region of the neocortex ,  located in the temporal lobe in gyrencephalic animals
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
any mucus produced by a mucosae of the respiratory system .
a blood vessel that is part of a cerebellum .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 1 that develop into the tragus ,  crus of the helix ,  and helix .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 2 that develop into the concha ,  antihelix and antitragus .
a scent gland that is part of the skin
the dorsal region of the optic cup that gives rise to the dorsal part of the retina .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the joint that is formed by the union of the humerus ,  the scapula  ( or shoulder blade )  ,  and the clavicle  ( or collarbone )  .
epithelium lining the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
any muscle tissue of the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
the dorsal part of the body wall
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a saliva - secreting gland .
any of the small racemose mucous glands in the mucous membrane lining the cheeks
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
a mesopodial endochondral element that is in the most proximal part of the mesopodial skeleton ,  connected to the zeugopodial skeleton .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a muscle layer that is part of the rectum
any portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of the rectum
a renal pelvis that is part of a left ureter .
a renal pelvis that is part of a right ureter .
any vertebra endochondral element that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
a transverse process that is part of a cervical vertebra
a rib that is attached to a cervical vertebra .
a rib that is attached to a lumbar vertebra .
a transverse process that is part of a lumbar vertebra
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a ligament that is part of a middle ear .
an organ system subdivision that is the part of the lymphoid system that includes the pulmonary lymphatic vessels .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a lung .
a stroma that is part of a pancreas .
a capsule that divides the parenchyma of the pancreas into lobes and lobules
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
a vein that supplies blood to the thymus .
a vein that drains a thyroid gland .
an artery that supplies a cervical thymus .
one of the veins draining a meninix .
a vein that drains a lacrimal gland .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
a muscular coat that is part of a digestive tract .
tissue that is part of some adrenal gland
foramen that allows the passge of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  .
a skeletal ligament that is part of a hip joint .
a z - shaped canal running through the temporal bone from the internal acoustic meatus to the stylomastoid foramen .
the anatomical space within the intestine .
muscle innervated by the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
the neck region of a bone organ .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
thoracic splanchnic nerves are splanchnic nerves that arise from the sympathetic trunk in the thorax and travel inferiorly to provide sympathetic innervation to the abdomen .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
either of the outermost digits in a five - digit autopod ,  or their phylogenetic equivalent .
epithelial layer that is part of the external part of the nose .
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
the spinal accessory nucleus lies within the cervical spinal cord  ( c1 - c5 )  in the ventral horn .
a blood vessel that supplies or drains an ear .
the single bud - like invagination of the conjunctival fornix epithelium at the temporal aspect of the eye that signals lacrimal gland formation  ( int rev cytol .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a reproductive gland .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the uterine cavity .
a blood vessel of the placenta .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
the layer of the developing cerebral cortex that is formed from the first cohort of neurons to migrate out of the cortical ventricular zone ;  split by the second wave into marginal zone and subplate .
any of the cranial nerves ,  or their central nervous system analogs  ( the optic tract ,  the epiphyseal tract )  .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the parietal eye .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the pineal body .
a taste bud that is located external to the digestive tube ,  on the head or body ,  as found in species such as goldfish .
a taste bud that is located on a lip .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the head .
a taste bud that is located in the pharynx .
a taste bud that is located in the esophagus .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the trunk .
the autonomic nerve is a small nerve which carries postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons from the zygomaticotemporal nerve ;  a branch of the maxillary nerve ,  to the lacrimal nerve ;  a branch of the ophthalmic nerve .
a part of an organism or organ that is continuous with its surroundings and distinguished from its surroundings based on morphology .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the outgrowth of neuroectoderm located on the floor of the embryonic hypothalamus that gives rise to the neurohypophysis  ( posterior lobe )  of the pituitary gland
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
the cervical ganglia are paravertebral ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system .
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
parenchymal tissue that forms the pineal gland .
any of the muscles that are responsible for moving the scapula .
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
an anatomical collection that is arranged in a line .
a region or zone on the surface of an organism that encompasses skin and any adnexa ,  down through muscles and bounded by underlying skeletal support structures .
the epithelial layer covering the biliary system .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
a population of lymphatic endothelial cell precursors that will form the lymph vessels .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the interlobular excretory ducts of a salivary gland which are found in the connective tissue septa and formed by the union of several intralobular striated  ( secretory )  ducts [ mp , generalized ]  .
a vertebra that has a transverse process .
a post - anal tail that attaches outside the tail .
a transverse process that is part of a caudal vertebra
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the flattened aspect of the prostate with a slight furrow facing the rectum and anus .
the organ of hearing located on the right side of the head .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are just beneath the surface of the skin .
the narrowest portion of the gallbladder and distal to the cystic duct .
the organ of hearing located on the left side of the head [ ncit , modified ]  .
the membrane the surrounds the prostate gland .
an artery that supplies the pituitary gland .
the parietal pleura that lines the mediastinum .
a vein that drains blood from the right adrenal gland into the inferior vena cava .
a space inside the uterus lined by a layer of mucus membranes called the endometrium .
the external portion of the prostate including the anterior ,  inferolateral ,  lateral and posterior surfaces .
a vein that drains blood from the left adrenal gland into the left renal artery .
the aspect of the prostate facing the pubic symphysis .
any of several arteries that arise from the aorta and supply blood to the esophagus .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are in the interior of the body or limbs .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
an embryonic structure positioned halfway between the prospective eye and ear ,  adjacent to the future midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
any lymph vessel that is located in the dura mater of the brain .
a skeletal element of the ethmoid region with complex morphology that are lined with mucuous membranes involved in either olfaction or air conditioning .
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
any nerve that innervates the larynx .
any nerve that innervates the pinna .
any nerve that innervates the penis .
any nerve that innervates the clitoris .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a muscle layer that is part of the sigmoid colon
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdominal segment of the trunk ,  which encompasses the abdomen proper plus pelvic cavity .
a serous sac that is the aggregate of the peritoneum and the peritoneal cavity ,  located in the abdominal cavity .
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the right side of the abdomen
the domain of the diaphragm that is a thin domed sheet of muscle composed of a radial array of myofibers extending laterally from the ribs and medially to a central tendon .
the lumen of the epididymis
the lower portion of the larynx ,  extending from just beneath the vocal cords down to the top of the trachea .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
an organ subunit in the skin that gives rise to cutaneous appendage .
an anatomical junction that is between the sigmoid colon and rectum .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
fluid that lines the vaginal walls that consists of multiple secretions that collect in the vagina from different glands .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
any synovial joint that connects auditory ossicles .
any of the eight ligaments pertaining to the uterus including the anterior ,  posterior ,  lateral ,  sacro - uterine and round ligaments .
the zygomaticotemporal nerve or zygomaticotemporal branch  ( temporal branch )  is derived from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper tract of the renal system .
an anatomical structure that is located along the line dividing two regions of an anatomical structure .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
a collection of hairs that grows on the external ear .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
a parenchyma that is part of a spleen .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
capillary that has pores in the endothelial cells  ( 60 - 80 nm in diameter )  that are spanned by a diaphragm of radially oriented fibrils and allow small molecules and limited amounts of protein to diffuse
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the limb integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the tail integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
skeletal tissue that is mineralized .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone or cartilage tissue .
an anatomical surface that is part of a bone
mesenchyme that is part of a forelimb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a hindlimb bud .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of a single digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
outermost point of a tail .
the posterior - most point of a foot .
the distal - most point of a cutaneous appendage .
the distal - most point of a digit .
the proximal - most point of the head of a femur .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a forelimb that is on the right side of a pectoral complex .
a forelimb that is on the left side of a pectoral complex .
a hindlimb that is on the right side of a pelvic complex .
a hindlimb that is on the left side of a pelvic complex .
a unit which is a standard measure of the distance between two points .
a unit which is a standard measure of the amount of matter / energy of a physical object .
a unit which is a standard measure of the dimension in which events occur in sequence .
x ventral_to y iff x is further along the dorso - ventral axis than y ,  towards the front .
a material entity that is ingested and contributes to survival ,  growth and development
carbohydrates that are absorbed in the small intestine and provide carbohydrate for metabolism in monogastric animals .
available carbohydrate in monosaccharide and disaccharide form
a mineral nutrient that represents a major proportion of the minerals required in the diet
a mineral nutrient that is present in a very low concentration within the diet
a plant metabolite that is not essential for growth or division of plant cells .
glucose which is derived from sucrose .
fructose which is derived from sucrose .
a group of fat - soluble retinoids produced via metabolism of provitamin a carotenoids .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid containing 22 carbons and 6 double bonds .
a quaternary ammonium ion obtained by methylation of any tertiary amine
any carotenoid derivative with an beta - end group
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of pyruvic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a sulfonium compound that is the s - adenosyl derivative of l - methionine .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxy group .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
a naturally occurring polypeptide synthesized at the ribosome .
the l - enantiomer of methionine .
a methylated tertiary amine that is  trimethylammonium in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a hydroxymethylpyridine with hydroxymethyl groups at positions 4 and 5 ,  a hydroxy group at position 3 and a methyl group at position 2 .
a mineral that is an inorganic nutrient which must be ingested and absorbed in adequate amounts to satisfy a wide range of essential metabolic and / or structural functions in the human body
any oligosaccharide ,  polysaccharide or their derivatives consisting of monosaccharides or monosaccharide derivatives linked by glycosidic bonds .
an optically active form of methionine having d - configuration .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
organooxygen compounds that are salts or esters of carbonic acid ,  h2co3 .
hydrocarbon carotenoids .
one of a class of tetraterpenoids  ( c40 )  ,  formally derived from the acyclic parent ,  psi , psi - carotene by hydrogenation ,  dehydrogenation ,  cyclization ,  oxidation ,  or combination of these processes .
a low - molecular - weight ,  non - protein organic compound participating in enzymatic reactions as dissociable acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons .
any terpenoid derived from a diterpene .
vitamins like a ,  d ,  e and k that dissolve in fats and are stored in body tissues .
any member of the class of pyridines with at least one hydroxy substituent .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
any member of the class of pyridines that carries at least one methyl substituent .
a family of polyunsaturated fatty acids that have in common a final carbon - carbon double bond in the omega - 3 position ,  i .e . ,  the third bond from the methyl end of the fatty acid .
any compound that has an aldehydic or ketonic group as well as a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule .
a five - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldopentose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketopentose )  .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is attached to a pyridine  ( or substituted pyridine )  ring .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
any terpenoid derived from a tetraterpene .
vitamin d is a group of fat - soluble prohormones ,  which can be obtained from sun exposure ,  food and supplements .
a subclass of carotenoids consisting of the oxygenated carotenes .
an n - acyl - amino acid that is a form of the water - soluble vitamin b9 .
a cyclic carotene with a beta -  and an epsilon - ring at opposite ends respectively .
a diatomic molecule containing covalently bonded hydrogen and fluorine atoms .
a pyridinemonocarboxylate that is the conjugate base of nicotinic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the l - enantiomer of  methioninate .
the l - enantiomer of methioninium .
the d - enantiomer of methioninate .
the d - enantiomer of methioninium .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is the 2 - keto derivative of propionic acid .
a calcium salt with formula ccao3 .
an alkaline earth molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkaline earth metal .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
any carboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is directly bonded to an aromatic ring .
a pentose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
any nutrient required in large quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
any aldopentose where the open - chain form has all the hydroxy groups on the same side in the fischer projection .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid anion in which the oxo group is located at the 2 - position .
a c40 terpene .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an sulfonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
an anti - inflammatory drug that is not a steroid .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates alpha - adrenergic receptors .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
any monocarboxylic acid having at least one additional oxo functional group .
any carboxylic acid anion containing at least one oxo group .
any monocarboxylic acid having a 2 - oxo substituent .
any c22 polyunsaturated fatty acid containing six double bonds .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid .
a hydroxypyridine carrying a single hydroxy substituent .
any member of the class of  pyridines carrying a hydroxymethyl substituent at unspecified position .
a substance that can be converted into a vitamin by animal tissues .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c double bond .
zwitterionic form of l - methionine having a anionic carboxy group and a cationic amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of d - methionine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a zwitterionic tautomer of s - adenosyl - l - methionine arising from shift of the proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
the dicarboxylic acid dianion formed from folic acid by loss of a proton from each of the two carboxy groups in the glutamic acid moiety .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
a sulfonium betaine that is a conjugate base of s - adenosyl - l - methionine obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a provitamin that can be converted into vitamin a by enzymes from animal tissues .
any organic aromatic compound having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a heteroarene ring .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
a glycerol compound having one of three possible substituent groups  -  either acyl ,  alkyl ,  or alk - 1 - enyl  -  at each of the three possible positions sn - 1 ,  sn - 2 or sn - 3 .
a food additive that is used to make or keep fruit or vegetable tissues firm and crisp .
an antioxidant that used as a food additives to help guard against food deterioration .
a polyunsaturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of docosahexaenoic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nicotinamidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .19 )  .
a carboxylic acic anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any aromatic carboxylic acid .
an environmental material primarily composed of dihydrogen oxide in its liquid form .
an environmental material which is in a liquid state .
a liquid or a gas .
cabbage or headed cabbage  ( comprising several cultivars of brassica oleracea )  is a leafy green or purple biennial plant ,  grown as an annual vegetable crop for its dense - leaved heads .
a food product derived from plant fruit .
a food product consisting of an edible fungi or mushroom or yeast .
beer is a fermented cereal beverage resulting from the fermentation most commonly of malted barley  ( though wheat ,  corn ,  or rice may included )  ,  by a yeast ,  most commonly saccharomyces cerevisiae ,  and flavored by dried flowers of hops ,  humulus lupulus .
a fermentation process in which either carbohydrates ,  proteins or fats are modified through microbial ,  enzymatic and / or other biological process .
a cabbage vegetable food product is a food product derived from the head or leaf portion of a cabbage plant .
a food product that derives from a cauliflower plant .
a fish steak ,  alternatively known as a fish cutlet ,  is a cut of fish which is cut perpendicular to the spine and can either include the bones or be boneless .
a genus of plants in the mustard family  ( brassicaceae )  .
fruit which has not been subjected to heat treatment ,  but which may have other mechanical processes such as slicing applied to it .
index dietary / food supplements according to legal and market definitions .
fibre supplements  ( or fiber supplements )  are considered to be a form of a subgroup of functional dietary fibre ,  and in the united states are defined by the institute of medicine  ( iom )  .
a member of the group of eukaryotic organisms in the kingdom fungi that includes unicellular microorganisms such as yeasts and molds ,  as well as multicellular fungi that produce familiar fruiting forms known as mushrooms .
yeasts are eukaryotic micro - organisms classified in the kingdom *fungi* ,  with 1 , 500 species currently described estimated to be only 1% of all fungal species .
leaf vegetables ,  also called leafy greens ,  salad greens ,  pot herbs ,  vegetable greens ,  or simply greens ,  are plant leaves eaten as a vegetable ,  sometimes accompanied by tender petioles and shoots .
*ascomycota* is a division / phylum of the kingdom *fungi* that ,  together with the *basidiomycota* ,  form the subkingdom *dikarya* .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna or circrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of magnesium ions within an organism or cell .
a process in which an ion is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin d ,  any of a group of related ,  fat - soluble compounds that are derived from delta - 5 , 7 steroids and play a central role in calcium metabolism .
a process that solubilizes fibrin in the bloodstream of a multicellular organism ,  chiefly by the proteolytic action of plasmin .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which an anion is transported across a membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
abnormality of the male external sex organ .
increased levels of protein in the urine .
an increased amount of subcutaneous fat tissue in the face .
loss of normal subcutaneous fat tissue in the face .
osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disease characterized by low bone density and microarchitectural deterioration of bone tissue with a consequent increase in bone fragility .
abnormality of the amniotic fluid ,  which is the fluid contained in the amniotic sac surrounding the developing fetus .
an increased concentration of proteins in the blood .
an anomaly of the brainstem .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of an atery ,  vein or the heart .
increased susceptibility to infections .
an abnormally decreased magnesium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally increased magnesium concentration in the blood .
increased concentration of protein in the cerebrospinal fluid .
reduction in the concentration of albumin in the blood .
a decreased concentration of protein in the blood .
an abnormality of the acetabulum ,  i .e . ,  the acetabular part of hip bone ,  which together with the head of the femur forms the hip joint .
decrease in mass and density of the metatarsal bones .
an abnormality of magnesium ion homeostasis .
a developmental defect characterized by the lack of formation of the pulmonary blood vessels .
osteoporosis affecting predominantly the vertebrae .
reduction in bone mineral density affecting any or all of the tarsal bones ,  seven bones of the foot comprising the calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  and the cuneiform bones .
an abnormal level of a circulating protein in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phytanic acid in the blood circulation .
inflammation of the tonsils that has occurred repeatedly .
a subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen .
deviation from normal concentration of albumin in the blood .
elevation in the concentration of albumin in the blood .
an abnormality of the metabolism of folic acid ,  which is also known as vitamin b9 .
an anomaly of cerebral veins .
increased concentration of albumin in the urine .
an abnormal concentration of magnesium the urine .
an increased concentration of magnesium the urine .
an decreased concentration of magnesium the urine .
any deviation of the concentration of one or more proteins in the urine .
any deviation from the normal range of a protein concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid .
csf total protein level is below the lower limit of normal .
any structural anomaly of a blood vessel  ( artery ,  arteriole ,  capillary ,  venule ,  or vein )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in urine .
activation of the brain's innate immune system in response to an inflammatory challenge and is characterized by a host of cellular and molecular changes within the brain .
pre - capillary pulmonary hypertension is a haemodynamic condition characterised by elevated mean pulmonary artery pressure  ( mpap over 20 mmhg )  and pulmonary vascular resistance  ( pvr 3 wood units or more )  accompanied by normal pulmonary artery wedge pressure  ( pawp not more than 15 mmhg )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of folate in the blood circulation .
a reduced circulating concentration of folic acid ,  which is also known as vitamin b9 .
a reduced concentration of vitamin d .
an anomaly of the cerebral blood vessels .
an increase in the level of ribose in the urine .
an increase in the level of ribose in the cerebrospinal fluid .
a reduced concentration of folic acid ,  which is also known as vitamin b9 in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of albumin in the cerebrospinal fluid .
a structural abnormality of a mandibular symphysis .
an identifier is an information content entity that is the outcome of a dubbing process and is used to refer to one instance of entity shared by a group of people to refer to that individual entity .
recommendation by a clinician to avoid exercise or physical activity .
the surgical transfer of a healthy liver to a patient .
addition of obsolete: vitamin c to the diet for adequate and complete nutrition .
addition of vitamin d to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of food antioxidant to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
pharmaceutical anti - gout preparations such as colchicine ,  allopurinol ,  probenecid ,  and sulfinpyrazone contain natural or synthetic agents against gout ,  a condition characterized by increased uric acid accumulation .
treatment with a drug for prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
therapy using an agent that reduces plasma lipids ,  such as cholesterol or low density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  ,  acting systemically or locally  ( intestines )  to decrease fat digestion ,  absorption ,  production ,  and accumulation in the plasma and reducing pathogenic atherosclerosis and thrombosis .
an agent used to as a treament of ectoparasitic infestations .
a measurement performed in a clinical setting using clinician's observations and instrument data to inform patient care and research .
a blood pressure measurement using a sphygmomanometer and an electronic pressure sensor  ( transducer )  that detects blood flow by the presence of oscillations in the cuff pressure .
a test or diagnostic examination to assess the health status of the mother and well being of the fetus .
detection of tnf - alpha levels ,  a cytokine involved in systemic inflammation .
a questionnaire designed to determine if patient's travel history may impact current health .
the determination of the amount of protein present in the sample .
an evaluation by an allergist - immunologist who diagnoses and manages disorders involving immune system conditions such as asthma ,  anaphylaxis ,  rhinitis and eczema as well as adverse reactions to drugs ,  foods and insect stings .
an evaluation by a physician who specializes in hospice and palliative medicine who provides care to prevent and relieve the suffering experienced by patients with life - limiting illnesses .
an evaluation by an internist who treats disorders of the kidney ,  high blood pressure ,  fluid and mineral balance ,  and dialysis of body wastes when the kidneys do not function .
therapy that inhibits hmg - coa reductase inhibitor .
transfer of multipotent hematopoietic stem cells ,  usually derived from bone marrow ,  peripheral blood ,  or umbilical cord blood into the body .
the systematic collection ,  analysis ,  and interpretation of health data on an ongoing basis .
addition of vitamin b12 to the diet for adequate and complete nutrition .
addition of obsolete: vitamin b to the diet for adequate and complete nutrition .
intake of nutrients intravenously .
intake of nutrients intravenously as well as enterically .
intravenous nutrition intake administered via vein access in a limb .
intravenous nutrition administration via the central vein .
a recommendation to alter dietary intake where 30% or less of the calories come from fat .
recommendation of a specific diet to adhere to prevent ,  relieve ,  or alleviate symptoms .
a recommendation to alter a standard diet from 2 - 3 large meals per day to many frequent smaller meals throughout the day .
a recommendation to maintain a vegetarian diet for health reasons .
dietary recommendation to closely control the amount of carbohydrates consumed .
a dietary recommendation to restrict the amount of carbohydrates consumed .
a recommendation to consume food low in purine content .
a recommendation to adhere to dietary approaches to stop hypertension  ( dash )  diet .
exclusively feeding an infant formula in efforts to prevent allergic reactions ,  intolerances ,  or communication of diseases  ( i .e .
a diet low in poorly absorbed ,  fermentable ,  short chain carbohydrates including fermentable oligosaccharides ,  disaccharides ,  monosaccharides ,  and polyols  ( fodmaps )  intended to reduce bloating ,  abdominal pain ,  excessive flatus and altered bowel habit .
addition of iron to the diet by taking ferrous sulfate supplements .
treatment with growth hormone or analog .
any procedure associated with female reproductive organs in their pregnant and non - pregnant states .
any examination performed to assess if a female is gravid  ( pregnant )  .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of human chorionic gonadotropin present in urine or serum .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of human chorionic gonadotropin present in a sample of serum .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of human chorionic gonadotropin present in a sample of urine .
the determination of the measured concentrations of chemical constituents of the blood by assay in a clinical laboratory .
a quantitative measurement of a particular substance present in a sample of serum .
a quantitative measurement of a particular substance present in a sample of urine .
a systemic evaluation of the breast using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
procedure where the individual examines their own breasts for lumps and other changes .
a systemic evaluation of the abdomen using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a systemic evaluation of the pelvic region of trunk using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a  measurement generally defined as the distance in centimeters from the pubic bone to the top of the uterus to determine fetal growth .
determination of the uterine size by ultrasound or other measurement .
the act of observing and recording the fetal heart rate for determining the baseline values or other abnormal findings .
a technique that utilizes a doppler transducer to monitor fetal heart rate .
a technique that utilizes a wire attached to the fetal scalp to monitor fetal heart rate .
recommendation for specific nutrients ,  vitamin supplementation ,  and food avoidance while pregnant .
a clinical recommendation to avoid or refrain from excessively hot environments in order to maintain health or ameliorate symptoms .
a recommendation to avoid infection with toxoplasmosis especially when pregnant due to serious risk of passing the infection on to the baby .
clinical recommendation to avoid strenuous exercise that may increase heart rate and temperature .
a clinical recommendation to avoid or refrain from lifting heavy items in order to maintain health or ameliorate symptoms .
limit activities where a great deal of balance may be required .
education by care providers about nutrition ,  health issues ,  and resources for prenatal and postnatal care .
a measurement of the amount of sugar  ( glucose )  in a urine sample .
testing for sexually transmitted disease syphilis .
testing to determine whether a patient has sufficient antibodies to be protected from rubella virus or to verify infection .
testing to diagnose primary vzv infection  ( varicella )  as well as reactivation  ( herpes zoster )  .
screening for hepatitis b antibodies to determine if a patient has immunity to hepatitis b .
testing to detect hepatitis b viral antigens and an active hepatitis b infection .
testing a patient for the antibodies to the human immunodeficiency virus  ( hiv )  .
testing to determine if the patient has a chlamydia bacterial infection .
testing for the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea .
screening for hepatitis c antibodies to determine if a patient has immunity to hepatitis c .
collecting of blood for clinical use .
collecting of bile for clinical use .
a procedure to tell what a patient's blood type and cell surface markers are .
a procedured performed to determine the antigens patient's red blood cells  ( rbcs )  that correspond to the four main blood groups: a ,  b ,  o ,  and ab .
testing to determine whether the protien rhesus  ( rh )  factor is present on patient's red blood cells .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of hemoglobin present in a sample .
the determination of the number of reticulocytes in a blood sample .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of iron in serum .
a quantitative measurement determining the amount of ferritin in serum as an indicator of iron metabolism .
the determination of the saturation of iron binding sites on serum transferrin proteins .
a measurement of size ,  shape ,  number ,  or other parameter of blood cells in order to diagnose or treat a patient .
an examination or assessment of the form and structure of red blood cells .
a procedure taking a thin layer of blood smeared on a glass microscope slide and stained to allow blood cells to be examined with a microscope .
a quantitative measurement of the amount of creatinine present in a sample of serum .
the determination of the amount of thyroid stimulating hormone present in blood .
determination of thyroxine  ( t4 )  levels in the blood as an indicator of thyroid health .
determination of triiodothyronine  ( t3 )  levels in blood as an indicator of thyroid health .
a measure of a patient's ability to clot ,  and how long it takes to clot .
a measurement of the length of time that it takes for clotting to occur when reagents are added to a plasma specimen .
the determination of the ratio of the prothrombin time in a subject's specimen compared to a control sample .
a measurement of the time it takes a plasma sample to clot after adding the active enzyme thrombin .
the determination of the amount of alanine aminotransferase  ( human )  present in the sample .
the determination of the amount of aspartate aminotransferase  ( human )  present in the sample .
the determination of the amount of gamma - glutamyltranspeptidase present in the sample .
the determination of the amount of albumin  ( human )  present in the sample .
the determination of the amount of alkaline phosphatase present in the sample .
the measurement of the total amount of bilirubin present in a particular substrate .
the determination of the amount of 5' - nucleotidase present in the sample .
the measurement of bilirubin present in a particular sample .
a measurement of the unconjugated or non - water - soluble bilirubin in a biological specimen .
a quantitative measurement of total protein present in the sample ,  usually serum or urine .
the determination of the amount of protein present in urine .
the measurement of the total protein present in a urine sample that was collected over a period of 24 hours .
a quantitative measurement of the total amount of protein present in a sample of serum .
the determination of the amount of haptoglobin present in the sample .
determination of the types of normal or abnormal types of hemoglobin in the blood .
determination of serum levels of pregnancy - associated plasma protein a  ( papp - a )  .
a test that involves administration of a know quantity of glucose as a means of screening for glucose intolerance or diabetes mellitus .
a series of maneuvers to determine the position and presenting part of the fetus with respect to the maternal pelvic canal in preparation for labor and the birth process .
the use of pharmacological and / or mechanical methods to initiate labor ,  including spontaneous rupture of membranes without contractions .
an antenatal ultrasonographic method that measures blood flow velocity through either maternal or fetal vessels .
a method to assess fetal oxygenation status during labor and delivery using a noninvasive reflectance pulse oximeter .
the determination of the amount of protein present in blood .
a recommendation of abstaining or avoiding any medical action that might normally be clinically prescribed .
addition of vitamin supplement ,  prenatal to the diet for adequate and complete nutrition .
therapy with an agent that inhibits the function of the sodium - potassium - chloride  ( na +  ,  k +  ,  cl -  )  cotransporter system in the thick ascending limb of the loop of henle ,  thereby inhibiting the reabsorption of sodium ,  potassium ,  and chloride ions .
addition of folic acidb9 folate to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of vitamin to the diet for adequate and complete nutrition .
addition of nicotinic acidniacin  ( b3 )  to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of pyridoxine  ( b6 ) pyridoxine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of ascorbic acid to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of sodium pyruvate to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of fat - soluble vitaminfat soluble vitamin to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of s - adenosyl - l - methionine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of isoleucine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of valine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of calcium atomcalcium to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of calcium carbonate to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of glucose to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of docosahexaenoic acid to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of omega - 3 - fatty acidomega - 3 fatty acid to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of lutein to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of ribose to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of fluoride to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of dietary supplement ,  fibre to the diet for adequate and complete nutrition .
addition of fish oil to the diet for adequate and complete nutrition .
addition of magnesiummagnesium atom to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
a systemic evaluation of the head using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a systemic evaluation of the neck using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a systemic evaluation of the chest using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a systemic evaluation of the uterus using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a systemic evaluation of the uterine cervix using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a systemic evaluation of the eye using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a systemic evaluation of the multicellular organism using visual inspection ,  palpation ,  and percussion .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of fish steak  ( raw )  .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of cow milk  ( raw )  .
collection biological material from within the endocervix with a cotton swab .
collecting of sputum for clinical use .
collecting of urine for clinical use .
collecting of semen for clinical use .
collecting of amniotic fluid for clinical use .
collecting of pus for clinical use .
collecting of mucus for clinical use .
collecting of respiratory system mucus for clinical use .
collecting of nasal mucus for clinical use .
collecting of bodily fluid for clinical use .
collecting of cerebrospinal fluid for clinical use .
the use of ultrasound to produce images of structures in the testis .
the determination of the amount of insulin hormone present in the sample .
the determination of the amount of albumin  ( human )  present in urine .
the determination of the amount of protein present in blood serum .
addition of amino - acid betaine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of folates to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of biotins to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of riboflavinriboflavin  ( b2 )  to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of thiamine  ( b1 ) thiamine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of l - serine to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
addition of cyanocob ( iii ) alamincyanocobalamin  ( b12 )  to a the diet for complete nutrition support .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of barley malt beer beverage .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of calcium atomcalcium .
a medical requirement or recommendation of avoiding the consumption of riboflavinriboflavin  ( b2 )  .
brewing yeasts may be classed as "top - cropping"  ( or "top - fermenting" )  and "bottom - cropping"  ( or "bottom - fermenting" )  .
cattle  ( colloquially cows )  are the most common type of large domesticated ungulates .
a specimen that is collected with a suctioning tube from the lower respiratory tract .
a specimen that is derived from the upper respiratory tract
a specimen that is derived from the lower respiratory tract .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that produces shoot - borne portions of meristem tissue  ( po:0009013 )  and the plant structures  ( po:0009011 )  that arise from them .
a multi - tissue plant structure  ( po:0025496 )  that is a functional unit ,  is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and includes portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  of at least two different types that derive from a common developmental path .
a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  that participates in the plant embryo stage  ( po:0007631 )  .
a stage in the life of a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  during which the plant structure undergoes developmental processes .
a determinate reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  that has as part at least one carpel  ( po:0009030 )  or at least one stamen  ( po:0009029 )  and does not contain any other determinate shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  as a part .
a collective phyllome structure  ( po:0025023 )  composed all of the carpels  ( po:0009030 )  in a flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  that has as parts a nucellus  ( po:0020020 )  in which a female gametophyte  ( po:0025279 )  is located ,  one or two integuments  ( po:0020021 )  ,  and a funicle  ( po:0020006 )  .
a collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  ,  and is composed of two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  and the associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a collective plant organ structure  ( po:0025007 )  that consists of two or more phyllomes  ( po:0006001 )  originating from the same node or from one or more adjacent nodes with compressed shoot internodes  ( po:0005005 )  .
a shoot system  ( po:0009006 )  in the sporophytic phase that has as part at least one sporangium  ( po:0025094 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is part of an plant embryo  ( po:0009009 )  .
a plant structure development stage  ( po:0009012 )  that has as primary participant a collective plant structure  ( po:0025497 )  .
a plant organ  ( po:0009008 )  that is part of a flower  ( po:0009046 )  .
a plant structure  ( po:0009011 )  that is a proper part of a whole plant  ( po:0000003 )  and includes two or more adjacent plant organs  ( po:0009008 )  or adjacent cardinal organ parts  ( po:0025001 )  ,  along with any associated portions of plant tissue  ( po:0009007 )  .
a collective plant organ structure development stage  ( po:0025338 )  that begins with the onset of the plant organ development stage  ( po:0025339 )  and ends with either gametophyte senescent stage  ( po:0025343 )  or sporophyte senescent stage  ( po:0007017 )  or death .
a shoot system development stage  ( po:0025527 )  that has as primary participant a reproductive shoot system  ( po:0025082 )  .
a protein that is the stand alone version of the gamma - glutamyltranspeptidase  ( pfam:pf01019 )  domain .
a protein that is a translation product of the human nt5e gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human alb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cga gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human got1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human got2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human hp gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an insulin family protein that is a translation product of the human ins gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a glycoprotein hormone beta chain that is a translation product of the human tshb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an organic amino compound that consists of amino acid residues  ( unmodified amino - acid residues and / or modified amino - acid residues )  linked by peptide bonds or derivatives of such bonds .
a 5' - nucleotidase that has had the signal peptide removed .
an albumin that has had the signal peptide removed .
a glycoprotein hormones alpha chain that has had the signal peptide removed .
a haptoglobin that has had the signal peptide removed .
an insulin gene translation product that has had the signal peptide removed .
a thyrotropin subunit beta that has had the signal peptide removed .
a part of a protein that is removed during the protein maturation process .
a protein that is a translation product of the escherichia coli k - 12 phoa gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an alkaline phosphatase that has had the signal peptide removed .
a protein that is a translation product of the human calca gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a calca gene translation product that is a translation product of some mrna giving rise to a protein with the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p01258 - 1 or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein - containing complex that is a heterodimer of an alpha subunit  ( cga )  common to several glycoprotein hormones and a beta subunit  ( tshb )  unique to thyroid stimulating hormone .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of homo sapiens .
a calca gene translation product that is encoded in the genome of human .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of some eukaryota .
a protein with a core domain composition consisting of a signal peptide followed by a single copy of the cys_knot  ( pfam:pf00007 )  domain .
a protein that is a translation product of a gene that encodes a standalone insulin  ( pfam:pf00049 )  domain preceded by a signal peptide .
an albumin  ( human )  that has had the signal peptide removed .
a proinsulin in human .uniprotkb:p01308 ,  25 - 110 .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gpt or gpt2 genes ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  or a semi - ortholog thereof .
a calcitonin isoform 1 that has had the signal peptide removed .
a procalcitonin in human .uniprotkb:p01258 - 1 ,  26 - 141 .
a proinsulin that has had the propeptide  ( c - peptide )  excised ,  leaving the a chain  ( example: uniprotkb:p01308 ,  90 - 110 )  and b chain  ( example: uniprotkb:p01308 ,  25 - 54 )  connected by crosslinks .
an insulin hormone in human .
an alanine aminotransferase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a protein that is a translation product of any of the following genes in human: got1 / got2 .
a protein - containing complex that is the remnant of fibrin mesh degradation  ( fibrinolysis )  by plasmin in human .
an aspartate aminotransferase ,  mitochondrial that is encoded in the genome of human .
a haptoglobin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a glycoprotein hormones alpha chain that is encoded in the genome of human .
a thyrotropin subunit beta that is encoded in the genome of human .
a calcitonin  ( human )  ,  isoforms 1 and 2 .
a calcitonin isoform 1 that is encoded in the genome of human .
a calca gene translation product  ( human )  that is a translation product of some mrna giving rise to a protein with the amino acid sequence represented by uniprotkb:p01258 - 2 .
an insulin gene translation product that is encoded in the genome of human .
an albumin that is encoded in the genome of human .
an aspartate aminotransferase ,  cytoplasmic that is encoded in the genome of human .
a 5' - nucleotidase that is encoded in the genome of human .
an extent of biological sequence .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
pus is a bodily fluid consisting of a whitish - yellow or yellow substance produced during inflammatory responses of the body that can be found in regions of pyogenic bacterial infections .
the thin innermost layer of the extraembryonic membranes that contains the amniotic fluid ;  the membrane forms a closed sac in which the embryo and later ,  the fetus ,  is suspended and protected
mucus produced in the nasal cavity ,  by the respiratory segment of the nasal mucosa .
a mesenchyme that is part of a amnion .
an epithelium that is part of the respiratory segment of the nasal mucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
system pertaining to a bronchus and alveoli .
matter ejected from the lungs ,  bronchi ,  and trachea ,  through the mouth .
the portion of the nasal mucosa that is part of the respiratory system .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the digestive tract .
hepatic serous coat ;  peritoneal covering of the liver ,  enclosing almost all except for a triangular area on its posterior surface  ( the "bare area of the liver" )  and a smaller area where the liver and gallbladder are in direct contact .
subserosal tissue of liver .a zone of areolar connective tissue lying beneath the serous coat of the liver and distinguished with difficulty from the fibrous capsule of glisson .
region of liver parenchyma immediately below the capsule .
the anatomical junction between the descending colon and the sigmoid colon .
a portal vein that drains the descending colon .
a portal vein that drains the ascending colon .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the intestine .
a vein where lymph node venules condense and which exits at the lymph node hilum .
an artery that enters the lymph node at the hilum and branches into smaller arterioles .
a protein coding gene tshb in human .
a protein coding gene calca in human .
a protein coding gene cga in human .
a protein coding gene alb in human .
a protein coding gene got1 in human .
a protein coding gene got2 in human .
a protein coding gene hp in human .
a protein coding gene ins in human .
a protein coding gene nt5e in human .
