a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
phase of sexual reproduction in which certain cells of a female or male individual  ( parent )  are transformed into specialized reproductive cells  ( gametes )  that will initiate development of a progeny individual  ( offspring )  upon fertilization .
entered into meiosis ,  dna replicated ,  no yolk accumulation .
meiotic prophase i arrest ,  gv in centre ,  diameter x
meiotic prophase i arrest ,  gv off centre ,  diameter x
meiotic prophase i arrest ,  gv off centre ,  diameter x
oocyte undergoing meiosis completion from prophase i to g0  of first meiotic cycle
matture female germ cell .not yet fertilized .
mature male germ cell .
zygote fertilized egg ,  zygote nucleus forms at animal pole  ( about 0 - 50 min post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
two cell - stage embryo .first cleaveages unipolar and start at the animal pole  ( about 50 - 80 min post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
four cell - stage embryo .second cleaveages unipolar and start at the animal pole  ( about 80 - 110 min post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
eight cell - stage embryo  ( about 2h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
sixteen cell - stage embryo  ( about 2 .5h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
thirty two cell - stage embryo  ( about 3h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
sixty four cell - stage embryo  ( about 3h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
cells rounded and loosely adhered ,  nuclei central   ( 5 - 6h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
cell contacts extended ,  cells polarised ,  nuclei apical  ( 8h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
cell polarized and columnar ,  nuclei apical  ( 9 -  10h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
visible pointed oral pole but no cell ingression ,  ciliogenesis starting  ( 12 - 13h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
a few cells ingressed at pointed oral pole ,  swimming started   ( 14 - 16h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  .
ingression to fill balastotocoel half completed  ( 17 -  18h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius ) 
blastocoel full ,  no epithelisation of internal cells  ( 20h post fertilization at18 degree celsius
epithelisation beginning at aboral pole  ( as seen at 24h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius ) 
visible central cavity  ( as seen at 48h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius ) 
competent to metamorphose as  ( 72h post fertilization at 18 degree celsius ) 
aged planula  (  >  3 days post fertilization at 18 degree celsius )  but not received metamporphosis signal .
torpedo shape planula that stopped swimming
irregularly shaped metamorphosing planula attached to substrate ,  not yet flattened
metamorphosing planula attached to the substrate and in shape of a flattened disc
metamorphosing planula attached to the substrate and in shape of a flattened disc with sculpted indentations
uniform extension emerging from the sculpted disc
swollen distal extremity developing into a functional primary polyp head
theca of the primary polyp open on the oral side and mouth open
colony containing  mature or developing gonozoids  ,  gastrozoids and stolons .
uniform extension emerging from the stolon as first stage of gastrozoid development
swollen distal extremity developing into a complete gastrozoid head
complete and functional gastrozoid with open hydrotheca and mouth
non feeding polyp specialized in budding medusae
growing and developing gonozoid
mature gonozoid budding medusae
mature gonozoid not containing any medusa bud only central tube and disc - shaped cap
medusa bud with visible ectoderm ,  endoderm and entocodon
medusa bud with forming subumbrella cavity
medusa bud with with folding umbrella
period of medusa growth between release medusa from gonozoid  until appearance of secondary tentacles .
period of medusa growth when only 8 tentacles are present
period of medusa growth when only 12 tentacles are present
period of medusa growth when only 16 tentacles are present .
period of medusa growth when only 16 tentacles are present .
outer layer of the gastrula .
oral part of the outer layer of the gastrula .
aboral part of the outer layer of the gastrula .
mid part of the outer layer of the gastrula .
outer layer of the planula .
oral part of the outer layer of the planula .
aboral part of the outer layer of the planula .
cells ingressing from the outer layer of the gastrula into the blastocoel .
cells ingressing from the outer layer into the blastocoel on the oral side of the gastrula .
cells ingressing from the outer layer into the blastocoel on the aboral side of the gastrula .
inner layer of the planula .
inner layer of the planula on the aboral side of the planula .
inner layer of the planula on the oral side of the planula .
cell formed by fusion of a mature female reproductive cell and a mature male reproductive cell at fertilization .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues .
organism at the cleavage stage .
organism at the cleavage stage after the first cell division .
organism at the cleavage stage after two division cycles .
organism at the cleavage stage after three division cycles .
organism at the cleavage stage after four division cycles .
organism at the cleavage stage after five division cycles .
organism at the cleavage stage after six division cycles .
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
blastula stage embryo before epithelisation .
blastula stage embryo with polarised epithelial cells .
blastula stage embryo with polarised and columnar epithelial cells .
organism at the gastrula stage .
visible pointed oral pole but no cell ingression ,  ciliogenesis starting .
gastrula with a few cells ingressed at pointed oral pole .
gastrula in which blastotocoel is half filled with ingressing cells .
gastrula in which blastocoel is full but no epithelisation of internal cells .
a distinct juvenile form before metamorphosis with elongated shape and cilliated outer layer .
planula larva showing epithelisation of gastrodermal cells at aboral pole but not orally .
planula larva with visible central cavity in gastrodermis ,  incompetent to metamorphose .
planula larva with all cell types diffrerntiated and competent to metamorphose .
elongated planula competent to metamorphose ,  thinner than p3 planula .
planula larva that has stopped swimming and is transforming into a polyp .
planula larva that has stopped swimming and fixed to substrate .
metamorphosing larva that has a pear shape .
transitory form of planula undergoing metamorphosis a flattened circular form attached to the substrate .
transitory form of planula undergoing metamorphosis a flattened form attached to the substrate showing irregular indentations and with small stalk emerging .
region of the cell closely surrounding the mitotoc spindle .
region inheriting the peripheral region of the egg around the animal pole .
region inheriting the peripheral region of the egg around the vegetal pole .
region of a stage iii oocyte cortex close to the oocyte nucleus .
egg cortex region containing the site of polar body formation .
region of cytoplasm in a stage iii oocyte in the same hemishere as the nucleus .
cytoplasm in egg hemisphere containing site of polar body formation .
single cell of a cleavage cel embryo .
an undeveloped male germ cell .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
an undifferentiated germ cell that proliferates rapidly and gives rise to oocytes .
a female germ cell that has entered meiosis .
oocyte incorporating yolk .
oocyte greater than 150 micrometers in diameter competent to undergo meiotic maturation .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
a female gamete where meiosis is complete and is able to participate in fertilization .
specialized cell participating in mucus secretion .
gland cell located on the aboral side of the planula larva ,  in the outer layer .
gland cell located in the inner layer of the planula larva .
gland cell of the manubrium .
gland cell of the gastrozoid .
multipotent stem cell .
interstitial cell in the stolon .
interstitial cell in the embryo .
interstitial cell in the planula .
interstitial cell in the feeding polyp .
interstitial cell within the gonozoid .
interstital cell of the manubrium .
differenciating nematocyte .
nematoblast in the stolon .
nematoblast in the planula .
nematoblast of the tentacle bulb .
nematoblast of the manubrium .
specialized cell containing one giant explosive secretory organelle called nematocyst used for prey capture and defense from predators .
nematocyte of the planula .
nematocyte of the medusa tentacle .
nematocyte located on the manubrium .
nematocyte located on the tentacle .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
neural cell in the planula .
neural cell in the mid part of the planula .
neural cell in the aboral part of the planula .
nerve cells of the radial canal .
nerve cells of the circular canal .
nerve cells located in the gonad outer layer .
nerve cell of the medusa tentacle bulb .
nervous cells of the subumbrella .
epithelial cell containing smooth myofibers .
smooth muscle of the velum .
smooth muscle of the subumbrella .
epithelial cell containing striated myofibers .
striated muscle of the velum .
striated muscle of the subumbrella .
connected system of gastrozoid and gonozoid polyps ,  propagating vegetatively .
tubular structure adhering to the substrate ,  connecting the bases of the polyps .
growing tip of a stolon .
mesoglea layer between the inner and outer layers of the stolon .
segments of the stolon between the bases of the polyps ,  excluding the growing tip .
outer layer within the stolon .
inner layer within the stolon .
polyp specialised for production of medusa by budding .
structure that closes the distal end of the gonozoid .
tubular structure comprising inner and outer layers at the centre of the gonozoid .
outer layer of the gonozoid including central tube and developing buds .
inner layer of the gonozoid including central tube and developing buds .
epithelial cell layer positioned between the developing medusa buds and the theca of the gonozoid .
outgrowth of the gonozoid central tube ,  within which medusa structures develop .
outgrowth of the gonozoid central tube ,  comprising entocodon ,  endoderm and ectoderm tissue layers .
bud on the side of the gonozoid central tube ,  in which all medusa structures are present but not yet expanded to final proportions .
bud on the side of the gonozoid central tube ,  containing medusa structures with same proportions as newly released medusa .
group of cells between the inner and outer layers of the early medusa bud .
developing manubrium within the medusa bud .
developing tentacle bud within the medusa bud .
developing radial canal within the medusa bud .
developing striated muscle within the medusa bud .
developing circular canal within the medusa bud .
polyp specialised for catching prey and digesting .
tentacle surrounding the gastrozoid mouth .
mouth of the gastrozoid .
chitinous acellular layer surronding and protecting the polyps .
chitinous acellular layer surronding the gonozoid .
chitinous acellular layer surronding the stolon .
chitinous acellular layer surronding the gastrozoid .
jelly - like layer between epithelial layer .
mesoglea layer between the inner and outer tissue layers of the gonozoid central tube .
swimming pelagic stage of the clytia hemisphaerica life cycle .
dome - shaped part of the medusa stage .
outer layer of the umbrella .
inner layers of the umbrella .
inner layer of the subumbrella in direct contact with the thick mesoglea layer of the medusa .
thick mesoglea layer of the umbrella forming the bulk of the umbrella .
outer border of the umbrella .
sensory structure of the medusa ,  located on the bell margin ,  consisting of a sensory vesicle containing statoliths .
medusa tentacle system comprising tentacles ,  tentacle bulbs and tentacle buds .
initial stage of tentacle bulb formation .
swollen structure producing the tentacle and connecting the bell margin to the tentacle .
cresent - shaped nematogenic area of the tentacle bulb ,  located on the oral side of the bulb outer layer .
v - shaped non - nematogenic ectodermal area of the tentacle bulb ,  located on the aboral side of the bulb .
inner layer of the medusa tentacle bulb .
tentacle of the medusa not including the tentacle bulb .
four first medusa tentacles of the newly hatched medusa ,  connected to both radial and circular canals .
medusa tentacle generated after medusa hatching and connected to the circular but not to the radial canal .
outer layer of the medusa tentacle .
inner layer of the medusa tentacle .
a muscular flap of tissue surrounding the margin of the bell .
inner layer of the velum .
outer layer of the velum .
canal connecting the manubrium with the bell margin .
canal running along the bell margin .
concentration of nerve cell bodies and projections running around the margin of the bell .
nerve ring located closest to the centre of the medusa .
nerve ring located farest to the centre of the medusa .
central structure of the medusa bearing the mouth and performing extracellular digestion .
medusa mouth as part of the manubrium .
inner layer of the manubrium opposite to the mouth and in direct contact with the thick mesoglea layer of the medusa .
outer layer of the manubrium .
inner digestive layer of the manubrium .
reproductive organ of the medusa .
outer layer of the gonad .
inner layer of the gonad .
