the life of an individual of the species drosophila melanogaster ,  from fertilization to death .
a collective term for stages 1 - 4 .
a collective term for stages 11 and 12 .
a temporal subdivision of a developmental process .
earliest stage of ovarian cyst development  -  lasts while the 16 cell cyst is within the germarium  ( region 3 )  .
oogenesis stage that begins when the cyst leaves the germarium  ( from this point the cyst is referred to as an egg chamber )  .
oogenesis stage that begins when the oocyte chromosomes condense into a karyosome attached to a distinctive spherical structure known as an endobody .
oogenesis stage that begins when the nurse cells chromosomes become bulbous .
oogenesis stage that begins when nurse cell chromosomes are no longer bulbous  -  the association between homologs weakens so that these chromosomes no longer have a polytene structure .
oogenesis stage during which follicle cell division ceases .
oogenesis stage during which polyploidation and enlargement of follicle cells begins .
oogenesis stage which begins when yolk first appears in the oocyte .
oogenesis stage that begins when the border cells begin to migrate .
oogenesis stage that begins when all the oocyte associated follicular epithelium is columnar and all of the nurse cell associated follicular epithelium is completely squamous and ends with the beginning of nurse cell dumping .
oogenesis stage which begins when all the oocyte associated follicular epithelium is columnar and all of the nurse cell associated follicular epithelium is completely squamous and ends when centripetal follicle migration begins .
oogenesis stage that begins when the centripetal follicle cells begin to migrate .
oogenesis stage that begins when nurse cell dumping begins and development of the wax layer begins .
oogenesis stage that begins when dying nurse cells form an anterior cap to the oocyte .
innermost chorionic layer and endochorion begin to form in the anterior of the follicle .
secretion of innermost chorionic layer and endochorion begins in the main follicle cells .
formation of specialized endochorion structures in the anterior of the follicle: branches in the developing dorsal appendages ;  compact endochorion lacking the pillars seen in the rest of the follicle .
oogenesis stage that begins when the micropyle begins to form .
oogenesis stage during which 12 - 15 nurse cell nuclei remain at the anterior of the oocyte .
oogenesis stage during which 9 - 11 nurse cell nuclei remain at the anterior of the oocyte .
oogenesis stage during which only 7 - 8 nurse cell nuclei remain at the anterior of the oocyte .
oogenesis stage during which only 5 - 6 nurse cell nuclei remain at the anterior of the oocyte .
the last stage of oogenesis .
secretion and formation of the outer endochorionic network by throughout the follicle .
secretion of the exochorion begins and ends .
the stage of the drosophila life - cycle from maturation of an egg to the end of fertilization .
the stage of the drosophila life - cycle from fertilization to hatching .
embryonic stage 1 - 3 .
the embryonic stage that lasts from the end of fertilization to the end of the second nuclear division .
the first mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
nuclear divisions 3 - 8 .the egg cytoplasm contracts producing a clear separation from the vitelline membrane and empty spaces at the anterior and posterior .
the second mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the third mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the fourth mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the fifth mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the sixth mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the seventh mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the eighth mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
nuclear division 9 .the cleavage nuclei complete their migration to the periphery .
the ninth mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the tenth mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
embryonic stages 4 and 5 .
nuclear division 10 - 13 .polar buds divide twice and become tightly grouped at the posterior pole by the end of this stage .
the 11th mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the 12th mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the 13th mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
cellularization .stage 5 begins when cellularization starts .
the 14th mitotic cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the interphase of embryonic cycle 14 .
the m - phase of embryonic cycle 14 .
the 15th cell cycle of embryogenesis .
the 16th cell cycle division of embryogenesis .
stages during which gastrulation occurs .
stage 6 begins when the ventral furrow becomes apparent ,  an event which is followed rapidly by the formation of the cephalic furrow .
stage 7 begins when the pole cells have adopted a dorsal  ( horizontal )  position at the posterior .
stages during which the germ band is extended  -  9 - 12 .
stage 8 starts with the rapid phase of germ band extension and ends with the beginning of mesodermal segmentation .
stage 9 begins when mesodermal segmentation becomes  ( transiently )  visible \  \  ,  and ends with the appearance of the stomodeal invagination slightly ventral to the anterior pole .
stage 10 begins with the appearance of the stomodeal invagination ,  slightly ventral to the anterior pole .
stage 11 begins with the invagination of the tracheal placodes .
germ band retraction .stage 12 begins when germ - band retraction starts and ends when this process is complete so that the prospective anal plate occupies the posterior pole .
stage 13 begins at the completion of germ - band retraction ,  when the prospective anal plate occupy the posterior pole .
stage 14 begins with the initiation of head involution .
a collective term for stages 13 - 15 .
stage 15 begins with the appearance of the second midgut constriction .
embryonic stages 16 - 17 .
stage 16 begins when the intersegmental grooves can be distinguished at mid - dorsal level ,  and ends when the dorsal ridge  ( frontal sac )  has overgrown the tip of the clypeolabrum ,  which is thereby enclosed in the atrium .
stage 17 begins when the dorsal ridge  ( frontal sac )  has overgrown the tip of the clypeolabrum ,  which is thereby enclosed in the atrium .
the stage of the drosophila life - cycle from hatching to the beginning of puparium formation .
the first larval instar begins at hatching and ends at the first larval molt .
the second larval instar begins at the first larval molt and ends at the second larval molt .
the third larval instar begins at the second larval molt and ends at puparium formation .
third instar larva prior to the wandering stage  ( approximately the first 24 hours of the third instar larval stage under standard conditions at 25'c .
stage of the third larval instar during which the larva wanders out of the food and climbs .
the prepupal stage begins at puparium formation and ends when larval / pupal apolysis is complete ,  as indicated by the completion of imaginal head sac eversion and the expulsion of the oral armature of the larva .
extends from puparium formation through tanning of the pupal cuticle .
male gonads become less distinct .
ridge of the operculum becomes distinct .
prepupal stage p4 begins as the lateral trunk trachea become obscured and ends when the imaginal head sac is everted and the oral armature of the larva is expelled .
lateral trunk tracheae become obscured .
bubble is displaced to anterior end of the puparium ,  and pupa withdraws to the posterior end .
the pupal stage starts once larval / pupal apolysis is complete as indicated by the expulsion of the larval armature .
pupal stage p5 starts when the legs and wings reach full extension along the abdomen and ends as the malpighian tubules become prominent and green .
legs and wings reach full extension along abdomen .
malpighian tubules become prominent and green .
dark green 'yellow body' appears between the anterior ends of the two malpighian tubule segments ,  mid - dorsally at the anterior of the abdomen .
the 'yellow body' moves back between the malpighian tubules .
pale yellow pigmentation spreads inwards across the eye .
eye color darkens to deep amber ,  then becomes pale pink .
eyes become bright red .orbital and ocellar bristles and vibrissae darken .
thoracic bristles become visible ,  and the tips of the wings turn grey .
dorsal thoracic microchaetes and macrochaetes become visible .
tips of folded wings become grey .
pharate adult stage p12 begins as the abdominal tergite bristles become visible ,  and ends as the wings darken to black .
bristles of the abdominal tergites become visible ,  and the wings become grey .
sex combs darken in males .
tarsal bristles darken and claws become black .
the meconium appears dorsally at the posterior tip of the abdomen .
pharate adult stage p15 begins with the tanning of the tergites and ends with eclosion .
tanning of the tergites obscures the malpighian tubules and the 'yellow body' .
stage which starts when the operculum opens and ends when eclosion is completed .
the stage of the drosophila life - cycle from eclosion to death .
newly eclosed adult stage .animal free of pupal case .
stage ,  shortly after eclosion ,  during which the wings expand .
the developing adult after pupal - adult apolysis ,  i .e . -  from stage p8  ( when yellow eye color first becomes visible through the pupal case )  ,  to eclosion .
adult stage immediately after wing expansion ,  during which tanning of the cuticle is completed .
the stage of the drosophila life - cycle from the formation of the puparium  ( beginning of the prepupal stage )  to eclosion .
oogenesis stage that begins when nurse cell dumping begins and development of the wax layer begins and ends when the dorsal appendages begin to form .
oogenesis stage that begins when endochorion begins to form at the anterior pole ,  a process which includes the beginning of formation of the dorsal appendages .
stage which begins when wandering third instar larva stops crawling .
the anterior spiracles are fully everted ,  with 7 - 9 finger - like projections .
oogenesis stage during which the number of nurse cell nuclei at the anterior of the oocyte reduce from 4 to zero .
third instar larva from the beginning of wandering to the beginning of puparium formation .
a cycle of nuclear division during the embryogenesis of drosophila melanogaster .
a temporal subdivision of a drosophila life ,  delimited by major transitions in the circumstances of the organism ,  such as: fertilization ;  hatching ;  pupal ecdysis ;  eclosion .
temporal subdivision of life based on time elapsed since some key developmental transition ,  such as fertilization ,  hatching or eclosion .
temporal subdivision of adulthood in days post - eclosion .
the first two hours of embryonic stage 17 at 25'c .
hours 2 - 4 of embryonic stage 17 at 25'c .
hours 4 - 6 of embryonic stage 17 at 25'c .
hours 6 - 8  ( the last two hours )  of embryonic stage 17 at 25'c .
the substage of the wandering third instar larval stage ,  prior to the beginning of clearance of the gut .
the substage of the wandering third instar larval stage when the larva has partially cleared its gut contents .
the substage of the wandering third instar larval stage when the larva has cleared its gut contents .
the interphase  ( go:0051325 )  of an embryonic cycle .
the m - phase  ( go:0000279 )  of an embryonic cycle .
the developmental stage that lasts from eclosion of the adult from the pupal case until tanning is complete  ( the end of adult stage a3 )  .
life stage from the end of adult stage a3 ,  when tanning is complete ,  to death .
the day of eclosion .
1st day after eclosion .
2nd day after eclosion .
3rd day after eclosion .
4th day after eclosion .
5th day after eclosion .
6th day after eclosion .
7th day after eclosion .
8th day after eclosion .
9th day after eclosion .
10th day after eclosion .
11th day after eclosion .
12th day after eclosion .
13th day after eclosion .
14th day after eclosion .
15th day after eclosion .
16th day after eclosion .
17th day after eclosion .
18th day after eclosion .
19th day after eclosion .
20th day after eclosion .
21st day after eclosion .
22nd day after eclosion .
23rd day after eclosion .
24th day after eclosion .
25th day after eclosion .
26th day after eclosion .
27th day after eclosion .
28th day after eclosion .
29th day after eclosion .
30th day after eclosion .
31st day after eclosion .
32nd day after eclosion .
33rd day after eclosion .
34th day after eclosion .
35th day after eclosion .
36th day after eclosion .
37th day after eclosion .
38th day after eclosion .
39th day after eclosion .
40th day after eclosion .
41st day after eclosion .
42nd day after eclosion .
43rd day after eclosion .
44th day after eclosion .
45th day after eclosion .
46th day after eclosion .
47th day after eclosion .
48th day after eclosion .
49th day after eclosion .
50th day after eclosion .
51st day after eclosion .
52nd day after eclosion .
53rd day after eclosion .
54th day after eclosion .
55th day after eclosion .
56th day after eclosion .
57th day after eclosion .
58th day after eclosion .
59th day after eclosion .
60th day after eclosion .
x is preceded by y if and only if the time point at which y ends is before or equivalent to the time point at which x starts .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a collective term for stages 9 and 10 .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase and occurs as part of a mitotic cell cycle .
progression through the phases of the mitotic cell cycle ,  the most common eukaryotic cell cycle ,  which canonically comprises four successive phases called g1 ,  s ,  g2 ,  and m and includes replication of the genome and the subsequent segregation of chromosomes into daughter cells .
a cell cycle phase during which nuclear division occurs ,  and which is comprises the phases: prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase and telophase .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the cell cycle is divided .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
the eukaryotic cell cycle in which a cell is duplicated without changing ploidy ,  occurring in the embryo .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when prophase of meiosis or mitosis begins .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when mitotic prophase begins .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the mitotic cell cycle is divided .
a mitotic cell cycle process comprising the steps by which the nucleus of a eukaryotic cell divides ;  the process involves condensation of chromosomal dna into a highly compacted form .
a process that is part of the mitotic cell cycle .
