deviation from the norm of height with respect to that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
multicystic dysplasia of the kidney is characterized by multiple cysts of varying size in the kidney and the absence of a normal pelvicaliceal system .
the pattern in which a particular genetic trait or disorder is passed from one generation to the next .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on one of the autosomes  ( i .e . ,  the human chromosomes 1 - 22 )  in which a trait manifests in heterozygotes .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on one of the autosomes  ( i .e . ,  the human chromosomes 1 - 22 )  in which a trait manifests in individuals with two pathogenic alleles ,  either homozygotes  ( two copies of the same mutant allele )  or compound heterozygotes  ( whereby each copy of a gene has a distinct mutant allele )  .
an abnormality of the female internal genitalia .
dysfunction of the urinary bladder .
repeated infections of the urinary tract .
a type of bladder dysfunction caused by neurologic damage .
urge incontinence is the strong ,  sudden need to urinate .
underdevelopment of the uterus .
an abnormality of the urinary bladder .
diverticulum  ( sac or pouch )  in the wall of the urinary bladder .
inability to completely empty the urinary bladder during the process of urination .
abnormally increased production of urine during the night leading to an unusually frequent need to urinate .
difficulty in beginning the process of urination .
loss of the ability to control the urinary bladder leading to involuntary urination .
dilatation of the bladder postnatally .
an abnormality of the male internal genitalia .
protrusion of the contents of the abdominal cavity through the inguinal canal .
the presence of inflammation of the prostate .
decreased functionality of the male gonad ,  i .e . ,  of the testis ,  with reduced spermatogenesis or testosterone synthesis .
absence of any measurable level of sperm in his semen .
testis in inguinal canal .that is ,  absence of one or both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum .
wasting  ( atrophy )  of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  manifested by a decrease in size and potentially by a loss of fertility .
the presence of a gonadoblastoma of the testis .
the presence of inflammation of the epididymis .
an abnormality of male external genitalia .
ambiguous genitalia in an individual with xy genetic gender .
accumulation of clear fluid in the between the layers of membrane  ( tunica vaginalis )  surrounding the testis .
an anomaly of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia .
displacement of the urethral opening on the dorsal  ( superior )  surface of the penis .
penile length more than 2 sd above the mean for age .
ventral ,  lateral ,  or ventrolateral bowing of the shaft and glans penis of more than 30 degrees .
lack of external genitalia in a male or female individual .
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism is characterized by reduced function of the gonads  ( testes in males or ovaries in females )  and results from the absence of the gonadal stimulating pituitary hormones: follicle stimulating hormone  ( fsh )  and luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
abnormal position of urethral meatus on the ventral penile shaft  ( underside )  characterized by displacement of the urethral meatus from the tip of the glans penis to the ventral surface of the penis ,  scrotum ,  or perineum .
midline indentation or cleft of the scrotum .
superior margin of the scrotum superior to the base of the penis .
underdevelopment of part or all of the male external reproductive organs  ( which include the penis ,  the scrotum and the urethra )  .
hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the perineal region .
congenital anomaly characterized by closure or failure to develop an opening in the urethra in males .
the presence of abnormally large testes .
abnormally small penis .at birth ,  the normal penis is about 3 cm  ( stretched length from pubic tubercle to tip of penis )  with micropenis less than 2 .0 - 2 .5 cm .
an abnormality of the female external genitalia .
an abnormality of the clitoris .
an anomaly of the labia ,  the externally visible portions of the vulva .
undergrowth of the outer labia .
developmental hypoplasia of the clitoris .
ambiguous genitalia in an individual with xx genetic gender .
a genital phenotype that is not clearly assignable to a single gender .
fusion of the labia minora as a result of labial adhesions resulting in vaginal obstruction .
congenital anomaly characterized by closure or failure to develop an opening in the urethra in females .
congenital anomaly characterized by closure or failure to develop an opening in the urethra .
an abnormality of the ureter .
a ureterocele is a congenital saccular dilatation of the distal segment of the ureter .
the presence of a stenotic ,  i .e . ,  constricted ureter .
the distention of the ureter with urine .
a developmental anomaly characterized by the presence of two ,  instead of one ,  ureter connecting a kidney to the bladder .
blockage of urine flow from the renal pelvis to the proximal ureter .
a congenital anomaly of the urinary tract ,  in which the kidney is duplicated and is drained via two separate renal pelves and ureters .
abnormal  ( retrograde )  movement of urine from the bladder into ureters or kidneys related to inadequacy of the valvular mechanism at the ureterovesicular junction or other causes .
an abnormality of the kidney .
an abnormality of the genital system .
an abnormality of the urinary system .
an abnormal functionality of the genital system .
a duplication of the collecting system of the kidney ,  defined as a kidney with two  ( instead of ,  normally ,  one )  pyelocaliceal systems .
a reduction in the level of performance of the kidneys in areas of function comprising the concentration of urine ,  removal of wastes ,  the maintenance of electrolyte balance ,  homeostasis of blood pressure ,  and calcium metabolism .
a connection of the right and left kidney by an isthmus of functioning renal parenchyma or fibrous tissue that crosses the midline .
a developmental defect in which a kidney is located in an abnormal anatomic position .
hypoplasia of the kidney .
presence of cysts at the corticomedullary junction of the kidney in combination with tubulointerstitial fibrosis .
an abnormality of the renal tubules .
the presence of renal tubules with thick redundant basement membranes ,  or a reduction of greater than 50% in tubular diameter compared to surrounding non - atrophic tubules .
increased levels of protein in the urine .
a structural anomaly of the glomerulus .
accumulation of scar tissue within the glomerulus .
segmental accumulation of scar tissue in individual  ( but not all )  glomeruli .
a height above that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
inflammation of the renal glomeruli .
nephrotic syndrome is a collection of findings resulting from glomerular dysfunction with an increase in glomerular capillary wall permeability associated with pronounced proteinuria .
an increased rate of urine production .
agenesis ,  that is ,  failure of the kidney to develop during embryogenesis and development .
an abnormal increase in the size of the kidney .
a fluid filled sac in the kidney .
the presence of multiple cysts at the border between the renal cortex and medulla .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the kidney .
increased number and size of the juxtaglomerular cells .
a nonspecific term referring to disease or damage of the kidneys .
the presence of multiple cysts in both kidneys .
dysfunction of the proximal tubule ,  which is the portion of the duct system of the nephron of the kidney which leads from bowman's capsule to the loop of henle .
high urine phosphate in the presence of hypophosphatemia .
a phenotypic abnormality .
the presence of any abnormality of the genitourinary system .
nephrocalcinosis is the deposition of calcium salts in renal parenchyma .
a unilateral form of agenesis of the kidney .
the presence of inflammation affecting the kidney .
abnormal function of the renal tubule .
a developmental defect in which a kidney is located in an abnormal anatomic position within the pelvis .
severe distention of the kidney with dilation of the renal pelvis and calices .
a high concentration of one or more electrolytes in the urine in the presence of low serum concentrations of the electrolyte ( s )  .
high urine potassium in the presence of hypokalemia .
an abnormality of the uterus .
the presence of a leiomyoma of the uterus .
prolonged and excessive menses at regular intervals in excess of 80 ml or lasting longer than 7 days .
decreased functionality of the female gonads ,  i .e . ,  of the ovary .
a decreased functionality of the gonad .
the presence of a bifid uterus .
an abnormality of the ovary .
the presence of one or more cysts of the ovary .
the presence of prolapse of the uterus .
an abnormality of the ovulation cycle .
absence of menses for an interval of time equivalent to a total of more than  ( or equal to )  3 previous cycles or 6 months .
any structural abnormality of the vagina .
the presence of a fistula between the vagina and the rectum .
congenital occlusion of the vagina or adhesion of the walls of the vagina causing occlusion .
the presence of a gonadoblastoma of the ovary .
the presence of a gonadoblastoma ,  a neoplasm of a gonad that consists of aggregates of germ cells and sex cord elements .
aplasia of the uterus .
an abnormality of head and neck .
an abnormality of the mouth .
distance between the oral commissures more than 2 sd above the mean .
erosion of the mucous mebrane of the mouth with local excavation of the surface ,  resulting from the sloughing of inflammatory necrotic tissue .
any abnormality of the tongue .
increased length and width of the tongue .
an abnormality of the lip .
distance between the commissures of the mouth more than 2 sd below the mean .
a type of cleft lip presenting as a midline  ( median )  gap in the upper lip .
posterior displacement of the tongue into the pharynx ,  i .e . ,  a tongue that is mislocalised posteriorly .
abnormality of the oral cavity ,  i .e . ,  the opening or hollow part of the mouth .
any abnormality of the teeth .
a severe form of periodontitis .
any abnormality of the gingiva  ( also known as gums )  .
the presence of fibrosis of the gingiva .
decreased length and width of the tongue .
abnormality of the uvula ,  the conic projection from the posterior edge of the middle of the soft palate .
any abnormality of the palate ,  i .e . ,  of roof of the mouth .
cleft palate is a developmental defect of the palate resulting from a failure of fusion of the palatine processes and manifesting as a separation of the roof of the mouth  ( soft and hard palate )  .
hard - palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the bony palate that are covered by the mucous membrane of the roof of the mouth .
an abnormality of the upper lip .
an abnormality of the lower lip .
increased thickness of the lower lip ,  leading to a prominent appearance of the lower lip .
multiple indentations and / or elevations on the edge and / or surface of the tongue producing an irregular surface contour .
cleft of the soft palate  ( also known as the velum ,  or muscular palate )  as a result of a developmental defect occurring between the 7th and 12th week of pregnancy .
decreased width of the upper lip .
width of the palate more than 2 sd below the mean  ( objective )  or apparently decreased palatal width  ( subjective )  .
an abnormality of the lingual frenulum ,  that is of the small fold of mucous membrane that attaches the tongue to the floor of the mouth ,  or the presence of accessory frenula in the oral cavity .
extra fold of tissue extending from the alveolar ridge to the inner surface of the upper or lower lip .
uvula separated into two parts most easily seen at the tip .
a facial appearance characterized by a permanently or nearly permanently opened mouth .
depression located on the vermilion of the lower lip ,  usually paramedian .
any abnormality of the parotid glands ,  which are the salivary glands that are located in the subcutaneous tissues of the face overlying the mandibular ramus and anterior and inferior to the external ear .
the presence of an abnormally short lingual frenulum .
pierre robin malformation is a sequence of developmental malformations characterized by micrognathia  ( mandibular hypoplasia )  ,  glossoptosis and cleft palate .
the presence of a cleft in the oral cavity ,  the two main types of which are cleft lip and cleft palate .
a gap in the upper lip .
an abnormality of the appearance of the face caused by constant contraction of the lips leading to a puckered or pursed appearance .
inflammation of the tongue .
the presence of a triangular form of the mouth .
limitation in the ability to open the mouth .
hyperplasia of the gingiva  ( that is ,  a thickening of the soft tissue overlying the alveolar ridge .
telangiectasia  ( that is ,  the presence of small dilated superficial blood vessels )  of the lips .
height of the vermilion of the upper lip in the midline more than 2 sd above the mean .
dryness of the mouth due to salivary gland dysfunction .
height of the palate more than 2 sd above the mean  ( objective )  or palatal height at the level of the first permanent molar more than twice the height of the teeth  ( subjective )  .
height of the vermilion of the upper lip in the midline more than 2 sd below the mean .
inability of velopharyngeal sphincter to sufficiently separate the nasal cavity from the oral cavity during speech .
accentuation of the grooves on the dorsal surface of the tongue .
hyperkeratosis of the gingiva .
hemorrhage affecting the gingiva .
telangiectasia  ( that is ,  the presence of small dilated superficial blood vessels )  of the tongue .
presence of telangiectases in the oral cavity .
inflammation of the gingiva .
an abnormal configuration of the lower lip such that it is turned outward i .e . ,  everted ,  with the inner aspect of the lower lip vermilion  ( normally opposing the teeth )  being visible in a frontal view .
height of the vermilion of the medial part of the lip more than 2 sd below the mean ,  or apparently reduced height of the vermilion of the lip in the frontal view .
an abnormality of the head .
any abnormality of the fontanelles  ( the regions covered by a thick membrane that normally ossify in the first two years of life )  or the cranial sutures  ( the fibrous joints in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments )  .
an abnormality of the anterior fontanelle ,  i .e . ,  the cranial fontanelle that is located at the intersection of the coronal and sagittal sutures .
abnormally decreased size of the anterior fontanelle with respect to age - dependent norms .
hydrocephalus is an active distension of the ventricular system of the brain resulting from inadequate passage of csf from its point of production within the cerebral ventricles to its point of absorption into the systemic circulation .
in newborns ,  the two frontal bones ,  two parietal bones ,  and one occipital bone are joined by fibrous sutures ,  which form a small posterior fontanelle ,  and a larger ,  diamond - shaped anterior fontanelle .
any abnormality of the size of the skull .
parietal bossing is a marked prominence in the parietal region .
wedge - shaped ,  or triangular head ,  with the apex of the triangle at the midline of the forehead and the base of the triangle at the occiput .
abnormal vertical height of the skull and a shortening of its anterior - posterior length ,  frequently combined with malformations of the occipital region .
abnormality of the paranasal  ( cranial )  sinuses ,  which are air - filled spaces that are located within the bones of the skull and face and communicate with the nasal cavity .
inflammation of the paranasal sinuses owing to a viral ,  bacterial ,  or fungal infection ,  allergy ,  or an autoimmune reaction .
an abnormality of skull shape characterized by a decreased anterior - posterior diameter .
an abnormal increase of density of the bones making up the calvaria .
head circumference below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender .
progressive microcephaly is diagnosed when the head circumference falls progressively behind age -  and gender - dependent norms .
an acute form of sinusitis .
occipitofrontal  ( head )  circumference greater than 97th centile compared to appropriate ,  age matched ,  sex - matched normal standards .
enlargement of the anterior fontanelle with respect to age - dependent norms .
tall head relative to width and length .
oxycephaly  ( from greek oxus ,  sharp ,  and kephalos ,  head )  refers to a conical or pointed shape of the skull .
an abnormality of the mastoid process ,  which is the conical prominence projecting from the undersurface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone .
asymmetry of the bones of the skull .
an abnormality of skull shape characterized by a increased anterior - posterior diameter ,  i .e . ,  an increased antero - posterior dimension of the skull .
increased convexity of the occiput  ( posterior part of the skull )  .
infants normally have two fontanels at birth ,  the diamond - shaped anterior fontanelle at the junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures ,  and the posterior fontanelle at the intersection of the occipital and parietal bones .
an abnormality of the face .
underdevelopment of the malar prominence of the jugal bone  ( zygomatic bone in mammals )  ,  appreciated in profile ,  frontal view ,  and / or by palpation .
a face that is short  ( hp:0011219 )  and narrow  ( hp:0000275 )  .
bizygomatic  ( upper face )  and bigonial  ( lower face )  width are both more than 2 standard deviations below the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  an apparent reduction in the width of the upper and lower face  ( subjective )  .
facial height  ( length )  is more than 2 standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  an apparent increase in the height  ( length )  of the face  ( subjective )  .
any abnormality of the mandible ,  the bone of the lower jaw .
an abnormality in which the mandible is mislocalised posteriorly .
absence of fine and sharp appearance of brows ,  nose ,  lips ,  mouth ,  and chin ,  usually because of rounded and heavy features or thickened skin with or without thickening of subcutaneous and bony tissues .
bizygomatic  ( upper face )  and bigonial  ( lower face )  width greater than 2 standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or an apparent increase in the width of the face  ( subjective )  .
a fold of skin starting above the medial aspect of the upper eyelid and arching downward to cover ,  pass in front of and lateral to the medial canthus .
an increased amount of subcutaneous fat tissue in the face .
an abnormality of the philtrum .
distance between the philtral ridges ,  measured just above the vermilion border ,  more than 2 standard deviations above the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently increased distance between the ridges of the philtrum .
an anomaly of the forehead .
loss of normal subcutaneous fat tissue in the face .
increased prominence or roundness of soft tissues between zygomata and mandible .
distance between the hairline  ( trichion )  and the glabella  ( the most prominent point on the frontal bone above the root of the nose )  ,  in the midline ,  more than two sd below the mean .
a characteristic facial appearance with a round facial form ,  full cheeks ,  a short nose ,  and a relatively small chin .
reduced muscle tone of a muscle that is innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
a lack of facial expression often with staring eyes and a slightly open mouth .
a face with a rounded and slightly elongated outline .
an anomaly of a muscle that is innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
abnormal prominence of the chin related to increased length of the mandible .
an abnormality of the chin ,  i .e . ,  of the inferior portion of the face lying inferior to the lower lip and including the central prominence of the lower jaw .
a marked tapering of the lower face to the chin .
a form of developmental hypoplasia of the mandible in which the mandible is mislocalised posteriorly .
an anomaly of the midface ,  which is a region and not an anatomical term .
the facial appearance is more circular than usual as viewed from the front .
interpupillary distance more than 2 sd above the mean  ( alternatively ,  the appearance of an increased interpupillary distance or widely spaced eyes )  .
facial myokymia is a fine fibrillary activity of one or more muscles innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
flat skin surface ,  with no ridge formation in the central region of the upper lip between the nasal base and upper vermilion border .
facial contours ,  as viewed from the front ,  show a broad upper face / cranium and lower face / mandible ,  creating a square appearance .
distance between nasal base and midline upper lip vermilion border more than 2 sd below the mean .
an abnormal difference between the left and right sides of the face .
facial contour ,  as viewed from the front ,  triangular in shape ,  with breadth at the temples and tapering to a narrow chin .
an abnormality of the maxilla  ( upper jaw bone )  .
abnormally small dimension of the maxilla .
hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  occurring in the face .
decreased vertical distance from the vermilion border of the lower lip to the inferior - most point of the chin .
greater than average forward and / or lateral protrusion of the supraorbital portion of the frontal bones .
width of the forehead or distance between the frontotemporales is more than two standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or apparently increased distance between the two sides of the forehead .
a reduced degree of motion of the muscles beneath the skin of the face ,  often associated with reduced facial crease formation .
coarse facial features reminiscent of those of a boxer .
inclination of the anterior surface of the forehead from the vertical more than two standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or apparently excessive posterior sloping of the forehead in a lateral view .
width of the forehead or distance between the frontotemporales is more than two standard deviations below the mean  ( objective )  ;  or apparently narrow intertemporal region  ( subjective )  .
distance between nasal base and midline upper lip vermilion border more than 2 sd above the mean .
an abnormality of facial morphology characterized by a small mouth opening and constant contraction of the lips as if the patient were whistling .
developmental hypoplasia of the mandible .
an abnormally increased height of the forehead .
frontal hairline with bilateral arcs to a low point in the midline of the forehead .
the presence of a forehead that is abnormally small .
an abnormality of the external ear .
abnormal location of the ear .
a type of abnormal location of the ears in which the position of the ears is characterized by posterior rotation  ( the superior part of the ears is rotated towards the back of the head ,  and the inferior part of the ears towards the front )  .
an abnormality of the inner ear .
tinnitus is an auditory perception that can be described as the experience of sound ,  in the ear or in the head ,  in the absence of external acoustic stimulation .
in otosclerosis ,  a callus of bone accumulates on the stapes creating a partial fixation .
an abnormality of the lobule of pinna .
an abnormality of the sensory perception of sound .
a decreased magnitude of the sensory perception of sound .
an abnormality of the nose .
ears that are low - set  ( hp:0000369 )  and posteriorly rotated  ( hp:0000358 )  .
upper insertion of the ear to the scalp below an imaginary horizontal line drawn between the inner canthi of the eye and extending posteriorly to the ear .
an abnormality of the middle ear .
acute otitis media is a short and generally painful infection of the middle ear .
an abnormality of the external acoustic tube  ( also known as the auditory canal )  .
an abnormality of the cochlea .
iwith incomplete partition ii ,  the cochlea consists of 1 .5 turns ;  the apical and middle cochlea turns are undifferentiated and form a cystic apex .
an abnormality of the pinna ,  which is also referred to as the auricle or external ear .
laterally protruding ear that lacks antihelical folding  ( including absence of inferior and superior crura )  .
stapes ankylosis refers to congenital or acquired fixation of the stapes  ( the stirrup - shaped small bone or ossicle in the middle ear )  ,  which is associated with conductive hearing resulting from impairment of the sound - conduction mechanism  ( the external auditory canal ,  tympanic membrane ,  and / or middle - ear ossicles )  .
a rudimentary tag of skin often containing ear tissue including a core of cartilage and located just anterior to the auricle  ( outer part of the ear )  .
reduced volume of the earlobe .
absence of fleshy non - cartilaginous tissue inferior to the tragus and incisura .
inflammation or infection of the middle ear .
chronic otitis media refers to fluid ,  swelling ,  or infection of the middle ear that does not heal and may cause permanent damage to the ear .
increased thickness of the helix of the ear .
anterior and inferior folding of the upper portion of the ear that obliterates triangular fossa and scapha .
the presence of an abnormally prominent antihelix .
a condition in which the helix is folded over to a greater degree than normal .
a form of sensorineural deafness with either congenital onset or infantile onset ,  i .e . ,  before the acquisition of speech .
median longitudinal ear length greater than two standard deviations above the mean and median ear width greater than two standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  apparent increase in length and width of the pinna  ( subjective )  .
an abnormal narrowing of the external auditory canal .
increased susceptibility to otitis media ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of otitis media .
an abnormality of vibrational conductance of sound to the inner ear leading to impairment of sensory perception of sound .
a type of hearing impairment in one or both ears related to an abnormal functionality of the cochlear nerve .
a progressive form of sensorineural hearing impairment .
a type of hearing loss resulting from a combination of conductive hearing impairment and sensorineural hearing impairment .
angle formed by the plane of the ear and the mastoid bone greater than the 97th centile for age  ( objective )  ;  or ,  outer edge of the helix more than 2 cm from the mastoid at the point of maximum distance  ( objective )  .
absence or failure to form of the external auditory canal .
increased volume and globular shape of the anteroinferior aspect of the nose .
abnormality of the choanae  ( the posterior nasal apertures )  .
decreased width of the nasal ridge .
an abnormality of the nasal septum .
reduced superior to inferior length of the nasal septum .
epistaxis ,  or nosebleed ,  refers to a hemorrhage localized in the nose .
abnormality of the nasal bridge ,  which is the saddle - shaped area that includes the nasal root and the lateral aspects of the nose .
anterior positioning of the nasal root in comparison to the usual positioning for age .
an abnormality of the ala of nose .
thinned ,  deficient ,  or excessively arched ala nasi .
increased breadth of the nasal bridge  ( and with it ,  the nasal root )  .
telangiectasia of the nasal mucosa .
an abnormality of the nasal tip .
decreased distance from the nasal tip to the nasal base .
nasal ridge curving anteriorly to an imaginary line that connects the nasal root and tip .
interalar distance more than two standard deviations above the mean for age ,  i .e . ,  an apparently increased width of the nasal base and alae .
decreased width of the bony bridge of the nose .
distance between subnasale and pronasale more than two standard deviations above the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently increased anterior protrusion of the nasal tip .
abnormal narrowing of the choana  ( the posterior nasal aperture )  .
absence or abnormal closure of the choana  ( the posterior nasal aperture )  .
increase in width of the nasal tip .
a splitting of the nasal tip .
lack of prominence of the nose resulting from a posteriorly - placed nasal ridge .
an inability to perceive odors .
interalar distance more than 2 sd below the mean for age ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently decreased width of the nasal base and alae .
anteriorly - facing nostrils viewed with the head in the frankfurt horizontal and the eyes of the observer level with the eyes of the subject .
an abnormality of the neck .
pterygium colli is a congenital skin fold that runs along the sides of the neck down to the shoulders .
decreased strength of the neck musculature .
an increased amount of subcutaneous fat tissue around the neck .
diminished length of the neck .
dysplasia affecting the vasculature of the gastrointestinal tract .
increased inferior - superior length of the neck .
involuntary contractions of the neck musculature resulting in an abnormal posture of or abnormal movements of the head .
a thickening of the skin thickness in the posterior aspect of the fetal neck .
increased side - to - side width of the neck .
a cystic lymphatic lesion of the neck .
any abnormality of the eye ,  including location ,  spacing ,  and intraocular abnormalities .
a structural abnormality of the retina .
a notch or cleft of the retina .
any abnormality of the cornea ,  which is the transparent tissue at the front of the eye that covers the iris ,  pupil ,  and anterior chamber .
a congenital abnormality of the cornea in which the cornea and the anterior segment of the eye are smaller than normal .
a type of astigmatism associated with abnormal curvatures on the anterior and / or posterior surface of the cornea .
a form of astigmatism in which one meridian is hyperopic while the one at a right angle to it has no refractive error .
an enlargement of the cornea with normal clarity and function .
a misalignment of the eyes so that the visual axes deviate from bifoveal fixation .
any noninflammatory disease of the retina .
an eye that is more deeply recessed into the plane of the face than is typical .
inflammation of the cornea .
an abnormality of the eyelids .
an abnormality of the fovea centralis ,  the central area of the macula that mediates central ,  high resolution vision and contains the largest concentration of cone cells in the retina .
the palpebral fissure inclination is more than two standard deviations below the mean .
the presence of recurrent corneal epithelial erosions .
an abnormality in voluntary or involuntary eye movements or their control .
inflammation of the eyelids .
an abnormality of the eyelashes .
glaucoma refers loss of retinal ganglion cells in a characteristic pattern of optic neuropathy usually associated with increased intraocular pressure .
an abnormality of the conjunctiva .
the presence of an increased number of twists and turns of the conjunctival blood vessels .
abnormality of eyesight  ( visual perception )  .
visual impairment  ( or vision impairment )  is vision loss  ( of a person )  to such a degree as to qualify as an additional support need through a significant limitation of visual capability resulting from either disease ,  trauma ,  or congenital or degenerative conditions that cannot be corrected by conventional means ,  such as refractive correction ,  medication ,  or surgery .
distance between the inner canthi more than two standard deviations above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or ,  apparently increased distance between the inner canthi .
the upper eyelid margin is positioned 3 mm or more lower than usual and covers the superior portion of the iris  ( objective )  ;  or ,  the upper lid margin obscures at least part of the pupil  ( subjective )  .
inflammation of the conjunctiva .
an inherited retinal disease subtype in which the rod photoreceptors appear to be more severely affected than the cone photoreceptors .
a supranuclear gaze palsy is an inability to look in a vertical direction as a result of cerebral impairment .
any abnormality of the electrical responses of various cell types in the retina as measured by electroretinography .
an abnormally slow velocity of the saccadic eye movements .
an abnormality of the lens .
a cataract is an opacity or clouding that develops in the crystalline lens of the eye or in its capsule .
a cataract that occurs congenitally as the result of a developmental defect ,  in contrast to the majority of cataracts that occur in adulthood as the result of degenerative changes of the lens .
an eye that is protruding anterior to the plane of the face to a greater extent than is typical .
absence of tear secretion .
a cataract that affects the region of the lens directly beneath the capsule of the lens .
the presence of small  ( ca .
an abnormality of the iris ,  which is the pigmented muscular tissue between the cornea and the lens ,  that is perforated by an opening called the pupil .
abnormality of the iris characterized by ,  typically bilateral ,  complete or partial iris hypoplasia .
mid upper eyelash length  > 10 mm or increased length of the eyelashes  ( subjective )  .
absence of the globe or eyeball .
a reduction of previously attained ability to see .
an abnormality of the choroid and retina .
atrophy of the choroid and retinal layers of the fundus .
an abnormality of the eyebrow .
decreased density / number and / or decreased diameter of eyebrow hairs .
a fold of skin starting at or just below the medial aspect of the lower lid and arching upward to cover ,  extend in front of and lateral to the medial canthus .
apparent optic disc swelling in the absence of increased intracranial pressure .
an abnormality in the process of focusing of light by the eye in order to produce a sharp image on the retina .
an abnormality of refraction characterized by the ability to see objects in the distance clearly ,  while objects nearby appear blurry .
separation of the inner layers of the retina  ( neural retina )  from the pigment epithelium .
reduced ability to move the eye in the direction of the nose .
a pale yellow discoloration of the optic disk  ( the area of the optic nerve head in the retina )  .
paralysis of the external ocular muscles .
an abnormality of refraction characterized by the ability to see objects nearby clearly ,  while objects in the distance appear blurry .
a nonspecific term denoting degeneration of the retinal pigment epithelium and / or retinal photoreceptor cells .
any deviation from the normal motor coordination of the eyes that allows for bilateral fixation on a single object .
lack of any response to stimulation upon electroretinography .
an anomaly in the ability to discriminate between or recognize colors .
difficulty distinguishing between yellow and blue ,  possible related to dysfunction of the s photopigment .
an abnormality of the uvea ,  the vascular layer of the eyeball .
inflammation of one or all portions of the uveal tract .
an abnormal white reflection from the pupil rather than the usual black reflection .
retinal dystrophy is an abnormality of the retina associated with a hereditary process .
diffusely large eye  ( with megalocornea )  associated with glaucoma .
a congenital malformation of the anterior segment characterized by iridicorneal malformation ,  glaucoma ,  iris stroma hypoplasia ,  posterior embryotoxon ,  and corneal opacities .
lack of eyelashes .
a cone - shaped deformity of the cornea characterized by the presence of corneal distortion secondary to thinning of the apex .
a developmental disorder of the lacrimal drainage system that most often affects the lacrimal ostium and resulting in non - opening of the nasolacrimal duct .
a form of strabismus with one or both eyes turned inward  ( 'crossed' )  to a relatively severe degree ,  usually defined as 10 diopters or more .
absence of a region of the retina ,  retinal pigment epithelium ,  and choroid .
a developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal smallness of one or both eyes .
an abnormality of eye movement characterized by impairment of fast  ( saccadic )  eye movements .
saccadic undershoot ,  i .e . ,  a saccadic eye movement that has less than the magnitude that would be required to gain fixation of the object .
loss of visual acuity  ( implying that vision was better at a certain timepoint in life )  .
hemorrhage occurring within the retina .
increased density / number and / or increased diameter of eyebrow hairs .
a regional and pathological increase of the light detection threshold in any region of the visual field surrounded by a field of normal or relatively well - preserved vision .
a scotoma  ( area of diminished vision within the visual field )  located between the central point of fixation and the blind spot with a roughly horizontal oval shape .
a form of strabismus with one or both eyes deviated outward .
blockage of the lacrimal duct .
an abnormality of the retina characterized by pigment deposition .
a fixed reduction in the vertical distance between the upper and lower eyelids with short palpebral fissures .
the palpebral fissure inclination is more than two standard deviations above the mean for age  ( objective )  ;  or ,  the inclination of the palpebral fissure is greater than typical for age .
an abnormality of the cornea characterized by the deposition of calcium in a band across the central cornea ,  leading to decreased vision ,  foreign body sensation ,  and ocular irritation .
reduced depth of the orbits associated with prominent - appearing ocular globes .
abnormality of the optic nerve .
a cleft of the optic nerve that extends inferiorly .
a developmental defect characterized by a cleft of some portion of the eye or ocular adnexa .
initial bilateral ptosis followed by limitation of eye movements in all directions and slowing of saccades .
an abnormality of the sclera .
an abnormal bluish coloration of the sclera .
abnormality of the anterior chamber ,  which is the space in the eye that is behind the cornea and in front of the iris .
reduced depth of the anterior chamber ,  i .e . ,  the anteroposterior distance between the cornea and the iris is decreased .
ophthalmoplegia is a paralysis or weakness of one or more of the muscles that control eye movement .
an abnormality of the ear .
an anomaly in the placement or shape of the hairline  ( trichion )  on the forehead ,  that is ,  the border between skin on the forehead that has head hair and that does not .
an anomaly of the pharynx ,  i .e . ,  of the tubular structure extending from the base of the skull superiorly to the esophageal inlet inferiorly .
interpupillary distance less than 2 sd below the mean  ( alternatively ,  the appearance of an decreased interpupillary distance or closely spaced eyes )  .
paralysis of one or more extraocular muscles that are responsible for eye movements .
an area of depressed vision located at the point of fixation and that interferes with central vision .
a supranuclear gaze palsy is an inability to look in a particular direction as a result of cerebral impairment .
an abnormality of the region situated around the orbit of the eye .
a nonspecific term denoting degeneration of the retinal pigment epithelium and / or retinal photoreceptor cells of the macula lutea .
underdevelopment of the optic nerve .
any structural abnormality of the choroid .
a coloboma of the iris .
excessive sensitivity to light with the sensation of discomfort or pain in the eyes due to exposure to bright light .
an abnormality of the nasolacrimal drainage system ,  which serves as a conduit for tear flow from the external eye to the nasal cavity .
an abnormality of the pupil .
abnormal  ( non - physiological )  constriction of the pupil .
an abnormality of eye movement characterized by impaired smooth - pursuit eye movements .
blindness is the condition of lacking visual perception defined as visual perception below 3 / 60 and / or a visual field of no greater than 10 degress in radius around central fixation .
reduced ability to turn the eyes inward in order to focus on a nearby object .
inflammation of the nasolacrimal sac .
an abnormal inversion  ( turning inward )  of the eyelid  ( usually the lower )  towards the globe .
lack of sharpness of vision resulting in the inability to see fine detail .
a vertical gaze palsy with inability to direct the gaze of the eyes downwards .
a short discontinuity of the margin of the lower or upper eyelid .
a posterior embryotoxon is the presence of a prominent and anteriorly displaced line of schwalbe .
increase in periorbital soft tissue .
the presence of an increased number of twists and turns of the retinal artery .
abnormality of tear production .
abnormally decreased lacrimation ,  that is ,  reduced ability to produce tears .
an impaired ability of the eye to move in the outward direction  ( towards the side of the head )  .
a markedly blue coloration of the iris .
a short discontinuity of the margin of the upper eyelid .
distance between medial and lateral canthi is more than two standard deviations above the mean for age  ( objective )  ;  or ,  apparently increased length of the palpebral fissures .
rhythmic ,  involuntary oscillations of one or both eyes related to abnormality in fixation ,  conjugate gaze ,  or vestibular mechanisms .
nystagmus made apparent by looking to the right or to the left .
the controller signal for saccadic eye movements has two components: the pulse that moves the eye rapidly from one point to the next ,  and the step that holds the eye in the new position .
difficulty with discriminating red and green hues .
a focal dystonia that affects the muscles of the eyelids and brow ,  associated with involuntary recurrent spasm of both eyelids .
reduced visual acuity that is uncorrectable by lenses in the absence of detectable anatomic defects in the eye or visual pathways .
a congenital anomaly in which a part or the whole of the cornea acquires the characteristics of sclera ,  resulting in clouding of the cornea .
atrophy of the optic nerve .
an anomaly of visually evoked potentials  ( vep )  ,  which are electrical potentials ,  initiated by brief visual stimuli ,  which are recorded from the scalp overlying the visual cortex .
diplopia is a condition in which a single object is perceived as two images ,  it is also known as double vision .
a short discontinuity of the margin of the lower eyelid .
decreased density / number of eyelashes .
descreased amplitude of eletrical response upon electroretinography .
an outward turning  ( eversion )  or rotation of the eyelid margin .
ocular motor apraxia is a deficiency in voluntary ,  horizontal ,  lateral ,  fast eye movements  ( saccades )  with retention of slow pursuit movements .
a form of anterior segment dysgenesis in which abnormal cleavage of the anterior chamber occurs .
a creamy appearance of the retinal blood vessels that occurs when the concentration of lipids in the blood are extremely increased ,  with pale pink to milky white retinal vessels and altered pale reflexes from choroidal vasculature .
inability to see well at night or in poor light .
meeting of the medial eyebrows in the midline .
nystagmus consisting of horizontal to - and - fro eye movements .
atrophy of the eyeball with blindness and decreased intraocular pressure due to end - stage intraocular disease .
a developmental anomaly characterized by a reduced number of teeth ,  whereby up to 6 teeth are missing .
caries is a multifactorial bacterial infection affecting the structure of the tooth .
the congenital absence of all teeth .
increased size of the maxillary central secondary incisor tooth .
an abnormality of the incisor tooth .
a developmental anomaly characterized by a reduced number of teeth ,  whereby more than 6 teeth are missing .
overlapping teeth within an alveolar ridge .
increased volume of dental pulp of permanent molar .
delayed tooth eruption affecting the primary dentition .
an abnormality of the dental enamel .
a grey discoloration of the dental enamel .
delayed tooth eruption ,  which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 sd beyond the mean eruption age .
developmental hypoplasia of teeth .
increased spaces  ( diastemata )  between most of the teeth in the same dental arch .
dental malocclusion refers to an abnormality of the occlusion ,  or alignment ,  of the teeth and the way the upper and lower teeth fit together ,  resulting in overcrowding of teeth or in abnormal bite patterns .
agenesis of one or more maxillary lateral incisor ,  comprising the maxillary lateral primary incisor and maxillary lateral secondary incisor .
decreased size of the teeth ,  which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter  ( width )  more than 2 sd below mean .
abnormal alignment ,  positioning ,  or spacing of the teeth ,  i .e . ,  misaligned teeth .
a type of dental dysplasia occurring in dentinogenesis imperfecta in which the pulp chambers are enlarged and there is a reduced amount of coronal dentin .
erupted tooth or teeth at birth .
delayed tooth eruption affecting the secondary dentition .
an abnormal conical form of the teeth ,  that is ,  a tooth whose sides converge or taper together incisally .
increased space between two adjacent teeth in the same dental arch .
radiolucency  ( reflecting a reduction in the bony substance )  around the apex  ( the tip of the dental root )  .
developmental dysplasia of dentin .
inflammation of the periodontium .
a developmental dysplasia of the dental enamel .
the presence of one or more embedded tooth germs which have failed to erupt .
an abnormality of the nervous system .
an abnormality of mental functioning including various affective ,  behavioural ,  cognitive and perceptual abnormalities .
a condition characterized by changes of personality and thought patterns often accompanied by hallucinations and delusional beliefs .
a tendency or compulsion to examine objects by mouth .
a state of unease characterized by diffuse motor activity or motion subject to limited control ,  nonproductive or disorganized behavior ,  and subjective distress .
unstable emotional experiences and frequent mood changes ;  emotions that are easily aroused ,  intense ,  and / or out of proportion to events and circumstances .
a state of exceeding restlessness and excessive motor activity associated with mental distress or a feeling of inner tension .
frequent feelings of being down ,  miserable ,  and / or hopeless ;  difficulty recovering from such moods ;  pessimism about the future ;  pervasive shame ;  feeling of inferior self - worth ;  thoughts of suicide and suicidal behavior .
autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by impaired social interaction and communication ,  and by restricted and repetitive behavior .
aggressive behavior can denote verbal aggression ,  physical aggression against objects ,  physical aggression against people ,  and may also include aggression towards oneself .
an exaggeration of emotional affects such as laughing crying ,  or yawning beyond what the person feels .
recurrent obsessions or compulsions that are severe enough to be time consuming  ( i .e . ,  they take more than 1 hour a day )  or cause marked distress or significant impairment  ( dsm - iv )  .
behavior characterized by an abnormal limitation to few interests and activities .
a loss of global cognitive ability of sufficient amount to interfere with normal social or occupational function .
persistent deficits in social interaction and communication and interaction as well as a markedly restricted repertoire of activity and interest as well as repetitive patterns of behavior .
a stereotypy is a repetitive ,  simple movement that can be voluntarily suppressed .
a lack of restraint manifested in several ways ,  including disregard for social conventions ,  impulsivity ,  and poor risk assessment .
difficulty in social interactions related to an impairment of characteristics such as eye contact ,  smiling ,  appropriate facial expressions ,  and body postures and characterized by difficulty in forming peer relationships and forming friendships .
reduced attention span characterized by distractibility and impulsivity but not necessarily satisfying the diagnostic criteria for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder .
perceptions in a conscious and awake state in the absence of external stimuli which have qualities of real perception ,  in that they are vivid ,  substantial ,  and located in external objective space .
intense feelings of nervousness ,  tenseness ,  or panic ,  often in reaction to interpersonal stresses ;  worry about the negative effects of past unpleasant experiences and future negative possibilities ;  feeling fearful ,  apprehensive ,  or threatened by uncertainty ;  fears of falling apart or losing control .
recurrent attacks of severe anxiety ,  whose occurence is not restricted to any particular situation or set of circumstances and is therefore unpredictable .
primitive reflexes traditionally held to be a sign of disorders that affect the frontal lobes .
the feeling of frustration can be defined as an emotional reaction that occurs if a desired goal is not achieved .
a reduction in goal - directed behavior ,  that is ,  motivation ,  the determinant of behavior and adaptation that allows individuals to get started ,  be energized to perform a sustained and directed action .
a belief that is pathological and is held despite evidence to the contrary .
a degree of language development that is significantly below the norm for a child of a specified age .
an abnormal shift in patterns of thinking ,  acting ,  or feeling .
hyperactivity is a state of constantly being unusually or abnormally active ,  including in situations in which it is not appropriate .
a type of anxiety disorder characterized by avoidance of public places ,  especially where crowds gather .
reduced ability to use nonverbal behavior for communication ,  such as eye - to - eye gaze ,  facial expression ,  body posture ,  and gestures .
a structural abnormality of the peripheral nervous system ,  which is composed of the nerves that lead to or branch off from the central nervous system .
a reduction in the speed at which electrical signals propagate along the axon of a neuron .
peripheral neuropathy affecting the sensory nerves .
progressive deterioration of peripheral axons .
any abnormality of the thorax  ( the region of the body formed by the sternum ,  the thoracic vertebrae and the ribs )  .
an anomaly of the sternum ,  also known as the breastbone .
a defect of the chest wall characterized by a depression of the sternum ,  giving the chest  (  \ "pectus \ " )  a caved - in  (  \ "excavatum \ " )  appearance .
a deformity of the chest caused by overgrowth of the ribs and characterized by protrusion of the sternum .
an abnormality of the breast .
abnormal development of large mammary glands in males resulting in breast enlargement .
an anomaly of the rib .
reduced rib length .
reduced width of the chest from side to side ,  associated with a reduced distance from the sternal notch to the tip of the shoulder .
any abnormality of the diaphragm ,  the sheet of skeletal muscle that separates the thoracic cavity from the abdominal cavity .
the presence of a hernia of the diaphragm present at birth .
abnormality of the thymus ,  an organ located in the upper anterior portion of the chest cavity just behind the sternum and whose main function is to provide an environment for t lymphocyte maturation .
underdevelopment of the thymus .
any abnormality of the scapula ,  also known as the shoulder blade .
the presence of calculi  ( stones )  in the kidneys .
the presence of blood in the urine .
the presence of uric acid - containing calculi  ( stones )  in the kidneys .
a type of glomerulonephritis characterized by diffuse mesangial cell proliferation and the thickening of capillary walls due to subendothelial extension of the mesangium .
the presence of immunoglobulin a deposits in the glomerulus .
an abnormality of the urethra ,  i .e . ,  of the tube which connects the urinary bladder to the outside of the body .
obstruction of the flow of urine through the urethra .
reduced count of spermatozoa in the semen ,  defined as a sperm count below 20 million per milliliter semen .
abnormal fat accumulation in the kidneys .
inability to develop or maintain an erection of the penis .
cysts of the cortex of the kidney .
the presence of xanthine - containing calculi  ( stones )  in the kidneys .
lack of the ability to control the urinary bladder leading to involuntary urination at an age where control of the bladder should already be possible .
a severe form of hypospadias in which the urethral opening is located at the junction of the penis and scrotum .
congenital absence of the normal opening of a structure of the urinary tract .
an anomaly of the adnexa ,  uterus ,  and vagina  ( in female )  or seminal tract and prostate  ( in male )  .
the presence of a bicornuate uterus .
reduced function of the gonads  ( testes in males or ovaries in females )  associated with excess pituitary gonadotropin secretion and resulting in delayed sexual development and growth delay .
an abnormality of the tricarboxylic acid cycle .
difficulty in looking at another person in the eye .
an abnormality of the endocrine system .
a group of abnormalities characterized by hyperglycemia and glucose intolerance .
an abnormality of the thyroid gland .
deficiency of thyroid hormone .
the presence of chronic increased pressure in the systemic arterial system .
passing the age when puberty normally occurs with no physical or hormonal signs of the onset of puberty .
insufficient production of growth hormone ,  which is produced by the anterior pituitary gland .
an increased concentration of insulin combined with a decreased concentration of glucose in the blood .
the onset of secondary sexual characteristics before a normal age .
an abnormality of the parathyroid gland .
a condition caused by a deficiency of parathyroid hormone characterized by hypocalcemia and hyperphosphatemia .
a condition of reduced function of the anterior pituitary gland characterized by decreased secretion of one or more of the pituitary hormones growth hormone ,  thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  prolactin ,  luteinizing hormone ,  and follicle - stimulating hormone .
a type of diabetes mellitus related not to lack of insulin but rather to lack of response to insulin on the part of the target tissues of insulin such as muscle ,  fat ,  and liver cells .
a type of hypothyroidism that results from a defect in the thyroid gland .
abnormality of the adrenal glands ,  i .e . ,  of the endocrine glands located at the top of the kindneys .
developmental hypoplasia of the adrenal glands .
an abnormality of thyroid physiology characterized by excessive secretion of the thyroid hormones thyroxine  ( i .e . ,  t4 )  and / or 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine zwitterion  ( i .e . ,  triiodothyronine or t3 )  .
overproduction of gonadotropins  ( fsh ,  lh )  by the anterior pituitary gland .
a type of reduced stature with normal proportions related to dysfunction of the pituitary gland related to either an isolated defect in the secretion of growth hormone or to panhypopituitarism ,  i .e . ,  a deficit of all the anterior pituitary hormones .
adrenogenital syndrome is also known as congenital adrenal hyperplasia ,  which results from disorders of steroid hormone production in the adrenal glands leading to a deficiency of cortisol .
an abnormally increased activity of the renin - angiotensin system ,  causing hypertension by a combination of volume excess and vasoconstrictor mechanisms .
an increased concentration of insulin in the blood .
excessive production of parathyroid hormone  ( pth )  by the parathyroid glands .
acromegaly is a condition resulting from overproduction of growth hormone by the pituitary gland in persons with closed epiphyses ,  and consists chiefly in the enlargement of the distal parts of the body .
insufficient production of steroid hormones  ( primarily cortisol )  by the adrenal glands .
an abnormality of the renin - angiotensin system .
an increased level of renin in the blood .
a type of hypothyroidism with congenital onset .
a condition characterized by resistance to the action of parathyroid hormone ,  in which there is hypocalcemia ,  hyperphosphatemia ,  and  ( appropriately )  high levels of parathyroid hormone .
an enlargement of the thyroid gland .
the presence of a adenoma of the thyroid gland .
increased resistance towards insulin ,  that is ,  diminished effectiveness of insulin in reducing blood glucose levels .
abnormally high variation in the amount of time between periods .
overproduction of the mineralocorticoid aldosterone by the adrenal cortex .
developmental hypoplasia of the parathyroid gland .
a form of diabetes insipidus related to a failure of vasopressin  ( avp )  release from the hypothalamus .
abnormality of the pituitary gland  ( also known as hypophysis )  ,  which is an endocrine gland that protrudes from the bottom of the hypothalamus at the base of the brain .
secondary hyperparathyroidism refers to the production of higher than normal levels of parathyroid hormone in the presence of hypocalcemia .
the presence of abnormally increased levels of prolactin in the blood .
a pituitary functional deficit affecting all the anterior pituitary hormones  ( growth hormone ,  thyroid - stimulating hormone ,  follicle - stimulating hormone ,  luteinizing hormone ,  adrenocorticotropic hormone ,  and prolactin )  .
a chronic ,  autoimmune type of thyroiditis associated with hypothyroidism .
a state of excessive water intake and hypotonic  ( dilute )  polyuria .
infrequent menses  ( less than 6 per year or more than 35 days between cycles )  .
presence of only 11 pairs of ribs .
decreased inferosuperior length of the sternum .
underdeveloped scapula .
ribs with a reduced diameter .
increased width of ribs
malformation of the rib cage .
wide ,  concave rib end .
a horizontal  ( flat )  conformation of the ribs ,  the long curved bones that form the rib cage and normally progressively oblique  ( slanted )  from ribs 1 through 9 ,  then less slanted through rib 12 .
any abnormality of the clavicles  ( collar bones )  .
increased length of the clavicles .
a bifid rib refers to cleavage of the sternal end of a rib ,  usually unilateral .
abnormal outward curving  ( protuberance )  of the junction of ribs and costal cartilage .
reduced length of the clavicles .
an excessive upward convexity of the lateral clavicle .
multiple circumscribed bony excrescences located in the ribs .
a row of beadlike prominences at the junction of a rib and its cartilage  ( i .e . ,  enlarged costochondral joints )  ,  resembling a rosary .
increased thickness  ( diameter )  of ribs .
complete or partial merging of adjacent ribs .
the presence of wide ,  concave anterior rib ends .
progressive bone resorption in the distal part of the clavicle .
wide ,  concave anterior rib end .
abnormally flat configuration of the glenoid fossa ,  also known as the glenoid cavity ,  which is the articular surface of the scapula that articulates with the head of the humerus .
a congenital skeletal deformity characterized by the elevation of one scapula  ( thus ,  one scapula is located superior to the other )  .
complete or partial merging of the posterior part of adjacent ribs .
a broad chest .
pectus excavatum  ( defect of the chest wall characterized by depression of the sternum )  affecting primarily the inferior region of the sternum .
increased width  ( cross - sectional diameter )  of the clavicles .
pectus carinatum affecting primarily the superior part of the sternum .
the presence of multiple exostoses on the scapula .
any anomaly of the costochondral junction .
abnormally increased size of the costochondral junctions ,  which are located between the distal part of the ribs and the costal cartilages ,  which are bars of hyaline cartilage that connect the ribs to the sternum .
a developmental anomaly with absence of one or more ribs .
wide ,  concave posterior rib end .
the presence of a row of multiple rounded expansions  ( beadlike prominences )  at the junction of a rib and its cartilage .
an abnormality of the skeletal system .
any abnormality of the vertebral column .
a flattened vertebral body shape with reduced distance between the vertebral endplates .
the bones of the skeleton undergo a series of characteristic changes in size ,  shape ,  and calcification from fetal life until puberty .
an abnormality of the skull ,  the bony framework of the head which is comprised of eight cranial and fourteen facial bones .
an abnormality of the fossa cranii posterior  ( the posterior fossa )  ,  which is made up primarily of the occipital bone and which surrounds to the foramen magnum .
radiographic evidence of articular calcification that represent calcium pyrophosphate depositions in soft tissue surrounding joints and at the insertions of tendons near joints  ( entheses / sharpey fibers )   .
abnormal thickening of the cortex of long bones .
osteopenia is a term to define bone density that is not normal but also not as low as osteoporosis .
osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disease characterized by low bone density and microarchitectural deterioration of bone tissue with a consequent increase in bone fragility .
an abnormality of the structure or form of the diaphysis ,  i .e . ,  of the main or mid - section  ( shaft )  of a long bone .
an abnormality of one or more metaphysis ,  i .e . ,  of the somewhat wider portion of a long bone that is adjacent to the epiphyseal growth plate and grows during childhood .
underdevelopment of the ilium .
an abnormal appearance of the long bones with resemblance to a dumbbell ,  a short bar with a weight at each end .
an abnormality of the skin .
yellow pigmentation of the skin due to bilirubin ,  which in turn is the result of increased bilirubin concentration in the bloodstream .
a darkening of the skin related to an increase in melanin production and deposition .
the distal and proximal transverse palmar creases are merged into a single transverse palmar crease .
a dermatosis characterized by thickened ,  hyperpigmented plaques ,  typically on the intertriginous surfaces and neck .
cafe - au - lait spots are hyperpigmented lesions that can vary in color from light brown to dark brown with smooth borders and having a size of 1 .5 cm or more in adults and 0 .5 cm or more in children .
skin characterized by the lack of natural or normal moisture .
a cutaneous indentation resulting from tethering of the skin to underlying structures  ( bone )  of the intergluteal cleft .
bluish discoloration of the skin and mucosa due to poor circulation or inadequate oxygenation of arterial or capillary blood .
hyperkeratosis is thickening of the outer layer of the skin ,  the stratum corneum ,  which is composed of large ,  polyhedral ,  plate - like envelopes filled with keratin which are the dead cells that have migrated up from the stratum granulosum .
reduction in thickness of the skin ,  generally associated with a loss of suppleness and elasticity of the skin .
eczema is a form of dermatitis .
a reticular discoloration of the skin with cyanotic  ( reddish - blue appearing )  areas surrounding pale central areas due to dilation of capillary blood vessels and stagnation of blood within the vessels .
abnormally diminished capacity to sweat .
petechiae are pinpoint - sized reddish / purple spots ,  resembling a rash ,  that appear just under the skin or a mucous membrane when capillaries have ruptured and some superficial bleeding into the skin has happened .
ectodermal dysplasia is a group of conditions in which there is abnormal development of the skin ,  hair ,  nails ,  teeth ,  or sweat glands .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin ,  or in one or more cavities of the body .
inability to sweat .
any structural abnormality of the sweat gland .
hyperkeratosis affecting the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot .
wrinkled ,  redundant ,  inelastic and sagging skin .
a condition in which the skin can be stretched beyond normal ,  and then returns to its initial position .
abnormal excessive perspiration  ( sweating )  despite the lack of appropriate stimuli like hot and humid weather .
subjective impression of increased softness upon palpitation of the skin .
an ecchymosis  ( bruise )  refers to the skin discoloration caused by the escape of blood into the tissues from ruptured blood vessels .
purpura  ( from latin: purpura ,  meaning  \ "purple \ " )  is the appearance of red or purple discolorations on the skin that do not blanch on applying pressure .
abnormally pale skin .
abnormal thickening of the skin of the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet .
atypically scarred skin  .
a red eruption of the skin .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
the presence of multiple xanthomas  ( xanthomata )  in the skin .
an increased sensitivity of the skin to light .
bluish - grey ,  spongy nodules associated with scars over pressure points and easily traumatized areas like the elbows and knees .
a oval and round ,  colored  ( usually medium - to dark brown ,  reddish brown ,  or flesh colored )  lesion .
hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells with small endothelial spaces ,  occurring in the face .
the presence in the axillary region  ( armpit )  of an increased number of freckles ,  small circular spots on the skin that are darker than the surrounding skin because of deposits of melanin .
hypertrichosis is increased hair growth that is abnormal in quantity or location .
any manifestation of a skin disease associated with the production of pus .
an abnormality of the pigmentation of the skin .
presence of an unusually high number of lentigines  ( singular: lentigo )  ,  which are flat ,  tan to brown oval spots .
localized fluid retention and tissue swelling caused by a compromised lymphatic system .
abnormally increased hair growth referring to a male pattern of body hair  ( androgenic hair )  .
telangiectasias refer to small dilated blood vessels located near the surface of the skin or mucous membranes ,  measuring between 0 .5 and 1 millimeter in diameter .
a reduction of skin color related to a decrease in melanin production and deposition .
the presence of multiple lipomas  ( a type of benign tissue made of fatty tissue )  .
eruptive xanthomas are yellow - orange - to - red - brown papules that are often surrounded by an erythematous halo .
a vascular lesion defined histologically as one or more dilated blood vessels lying directly subepidermal and showing an epidermal proliferative reaction .
a condition in which superficial veins  ( i .e . ,  veins just under the skin )  are more conspicuous or noticable than normal .
a type of pallor that is secondary to the presence of anemia .
an abnormality of the dermatoglyphs ,  i .e . ,  an abnormality of the patterns of ridges of the skin of palm of hand .
an inflammatory exfoliative dermatosis involving nearly all of the surface of the skin .
an abnormal reduction in the amount of pigmentation  ( reduced or absent )  of skin ,  hair and eye  ( iris and retina )  .
raised ,  well - circumscribed areas of erythema and edema involving the dermis and epidermis .
a skin texture that is unusually soft  ( and may feel silky )  ,  and has a malleable consistency resembling that of dough .
a hemangioma is a benign tumor characterized by blood - filled spaces lined by benign endothelial cells .
poikiloderma refers to a patch of skin with  ( 1 )  reticulated hypopigmentation and hyperpigmentation ,   ( 2 )  wrinkling secondary to epidermal atrophy ,  and  ( 3 )  telangiectasias .
skin that splits easily with minimal injury .
the presence of subcutaneous lipoma .
absence of the distal interphalangeal flexion creases of the fingers .
a hyperpigmented circumscribed area of change in normal skin color without elevation or depression of any size .
abnormal formation of the keratinocytes of the epidermis characterized by persistence of nuclei ,  incomplete formation of keratin ,  and moistness and swelling of the keratinocytes .
redness of the skin of the face ,  caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin .
jaundice that is sometimes present ,  sometimes not .
atopic dermatitis  ( ad )  or atopic eczema is an itchy ,  inflammatory skin condition with a predilection for the skin flexures .
the presence of a cavernous hemangioma .
seborrheic dermatitis is a form of eczema which is closely related to dandruff .
a congenital vascular malformation consisting of superficial and deep dilated capillaries in the skin which produce a reddish to purplish discolouration of the skin .
increased susceptibility to erysipelas ,  as manifested by a medical history of repeated episodes of erysipelas ,  which is a superficial infection of the skin ,  typically involving the lymphatic system .
presence of multiple small cysts containing keratin  ( skin protein )  and presenting as tiny pearly - white bumps just under the surface of the skin .
a developmental defect resulting in the congenital absence of skin in multiple or solitary non - inflammatory ,  well - demarcated ,  oval or circular ulcers with a diameter of about 1 to 2 cm .
a reduced ability to heal cutaneous wounds .
pterygia are 'winglike' triangular membranes occurring in the neck ,  eyes ,  knees ,  elbows ,  ankles or digits .
presence of a cutaneous membrane  ( flap )  in the armpit .
a skin condition in which there is an increase in sebum secretion by the pilosebaceous apparatus associated with open comedones  ( blackheads )  ,  closed comedones  ( whiteheads )  ,  and pustular nodules  ( papules ,  pustules ,  and cysts )  .
a large pigmented lesion measuring 5 - 15 mm in diameter with irregular ,  notched ,  and ill defined border and with color that may range from tan to dark brown to pink .
thinned ,  erythematous ,  depressed bands of atrophic skin .
the presence of multiple cutaneous neurofibromas .
intermittent episodes of abnormally increased perspiration .
patchy and irregular skin pigmentation .
laminar thickening of skin .
thin  ( atrophic )  and wide scars .
scars that form a depression compared to the level of the surrounding skin because of damage to the collagen ,  fat or other tissues below the skin .
an abnormality of the biliary tree .
hard ,  pebble - like deposits that form within the gallbladder .
the presence of inflammatory changes in the gallbladder .
dislocation or malposition of the crystalline lens of the eye .
a hazy ,  grayish - white ring about 2 mm in width located close to but separated from the limbus  ( the corneoscleral junction )  .
papilledema refers to edema  ( swelling )  of the optic disc secondary to any factor which increases cerebral spinal fluid pressure .
glaucoma which forms during the early years of a child's life is called developmental or congenital glaucoma .
the presence of whitish spots in a ring - like arrangement at the periphery of the iris .
loss of iris tissue  ( atrophy ) 
diffusely large eye  ( with megalocornea )  without glaucoma .
no identifiable superior and / or inferior lacrimal punctum .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the optic nerve .
a type of anterior uveitis ,  in which there is inflammation of the iris and the ciliary body .
inflammation of the cornea and conjunctiva .
dryness of the eye related to deficiency of the tear film components  ( aqueous ,  mucin ,  or lipid )  ,  lid surface abnormalities ,  or epithelial abnormalities .
any structural abnormality of the fundus of the eye .
heterochromia iridis is a difference in the color of the iris in the two eyes .
inflammation of the iris .
irregular lines in the deep retina that are typically configured in a radiating fashion and emanate from the optic disc .
a structural abnormality of the macula lutea ,  which is an oval - shaped highly pigmented yellow spot near the center of the retina .
underdevelopment of the macula lutea .
well - demarcated area ( s )  of partial or complete depigmentation in the fundus ,  reflecting atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium with associated retinal photoreceptor loss .
increased pigmentation of the skin in the region surrounding the orbit of the eye .
an abnormal reduction in the amount of pigmentation  ( reduced or absent )  of the iris and retina .
degeneration of retinal ganglion cells and their axons .
the presence of xanthomata in the skin of the eyelid .
a polar cataract that affects the posterior pole of the lens .
a congenital defect of the macula distinct from coloboma associated with optic fissure closure defects .
severe loss of visual acuity within hours or days .
a type of cataract that is not apparent at birth but that arises in childhood or adolescence .
limbus - to - limbus corneal thinning ,  often greatest in the periphery ,  with globular protrusion of the cornea .
any abnormality of the size or morphology of the cornea .
transient blurring of vision associated with the aura phase of migraine .
cryptophthalmos is a condition of total absence of eyelids and the skin of forehead is continuous with that of cheek ,  in which the eyeball is completely concealed by the skin ,  which is stretched over the orbital cavity .
inversion and rubbing of the eyelashes against the globe of the eye .
an abnormality of the cornea that is characterized by opacity of one or parts of the cornea .
partial dislocation of the lens of the eye .
an absolute or relative decrease in retinal sensitivity extending from edge  ( periphery )  of the visual field in a concentric pattern .
a polar cataract that affects the anterior pole of the lens .
the presence of an increased number of twists and turns of the retinal arterioles .
esotropia in which either eye may be used for fixation .
a benign tumor typically found at the junction of the cornea and sclera  ( limbal epibullar dermoid )  .
severe reduction of the ability to see defined as visual acuity less than 6 / 60  ( 20 / 200 in us notation ;  0 .1 in decimal notation )  but at least 3 / 60  ( 20 / 400 in us notation ;  0 .05 in decimal notation )  .
a conical projection of the anterior or posterior surface of the lens ,  occurring as a developmental anomaly .
presence of a cyst in the region of the periorbital tissues .
fluid which has escaped from retinal blood vessels with a high concentration of lipid ,  protein ,  and cellular debris with a typically bright ,  reflective ,  white or cream colored appearance on the surface of the retina .
the presence of fine ,  branching linear opacities in bowman's layer in the central area that may spread to the periphery in the clinical course .
an abnormality of ocular smooth pursuit characterized by an impairment of the ability to track horizontally moving objects .
an abnormality of tracking eye movements in which smooth pursuit is interrupted by an abnormally high number of saccadic movements .
the presence of a vaginal septum ,  thereby creating a vaginal duplication .
an abnormality affecting one or both hands .
digits that appear disproportionately short compared to the hand / foot .
webbing or fusion of the fingers or toes ,  involving soft parts only or including bone structure .
a kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary finger or fingers .
supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand  ( that is ,  on the side with the fifth finger )  .
an abnormality of the metacarpal bones .
abnormally long and slender fingers  (  \ "spider fingers \ " )  .
an anomaly of a finger .
for children from birth to 4 years of age the palm width is more than 2 sd above the mean ;  for children from 4 to 16 years of age the palm width is above the 95th centile ;  or ,  the width of the palm appears disproportionately wide for the length .
a condition in which middle parts of the hand  ( fingers and metacarpals )  are missing giving a cleft appearance .
an abnormal structure of the first digit of the hand .
supernumerary digits located at the radial side of the hand .
an abnormal hand position characterized by hyperextension of the fourth and fifth fingers at the metacarpophalangeal joints and flexion of the interphalangeal joints of the same fingers such that they are curled towards the palm .
a developmental defect resulting in the presence of fewer than the normal number of fingers .
in the resting position ,  the tip of the thumb is on ,  or near ,  the palm ,  close to the base of the fourth or fifth finger .
the gradual reduction in girth of the finger from proximal to distal .
the ability of the finger joints to move beyond their normal range of motion .
an abnormal hand posture in which the hands are clenched to fists .
an abnormality affecting the carpal bones of the wrist  ( scaphoid ,  lunate ,  triquetral ,  pisiform ,  trapezium ,  trapezoid ,  capitate ,  hamate )  .
an abnormality of the placenta  ( the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall )  or of the umbilical cord  ( the cord that connects the fetus to the placenta )  .
single umbilical artery  ( sua )  is the absence of one of the two umbilical arteries surrounding the fetal bladder and in the fetal umbilical cord .
decreased length of the umbilical cord .
an abnormality of the fetus or the birth of the fetus ,  excluding structural abnormalities .
a thumb with three phalanges in a single ,  proximo - distal axis .
the term distal symphalangism refers to a bony fusion of the distal and middle phalanges of the digits of the hand ,  in other words the distal interphalangeal joint  ( dij )  is missing which can be seen either on x - rays or as an absence of the distal interphalangeal finger creases .
an abnormal structure of the tip  ( end )  of a finger .
a soft tissue prominence of the ventral aspects of the fingertips .
the distal interphalangeal joint and / or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the second to fifth fingers cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension .
ossification of carpal bones occurs later than age - adjusted norms .
broadening of the soft tissues  ( non - edematous swelling of soft tissues )  of the digital tips in all dimensions associated with an increased longitudinal and lateral curvature of the nails .
spontaneous detachment  ( amputation )  of an appendage from the body .
chronic loss of joint motion in an interphalangeal joint of a finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
spoon - shaped ,  broad thumbs .
all of the metacarpal bones of the hand have a pointed proximal appearance .
an abnormality of the thenar eminence ,  i .e . ,  of the muscle on the palm of the human hand just beneath the thumb .
abnormally broad metacarpal bones .
an abnormality of the fingernails .
telangiectases in the area of the nails .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers two and three .
with the hand relaxed and the thumb in the plane of the palm ,  the axis of the thumb forms an angle of at least 90 degrees with the long axis of the hand .
fingers that are disproportionately narrow  ( reduced girth )  for the hand / foot size or build of the individual .
a chronic loss of wrist joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevent normal movement of the joints of the wrist .
underdevelopment of the thenar eminence with reduced palmar soft tissue mass surrounding the base of the thumb .
decreased length of the tubular bones of the hand ,  that is ,  the phalanges and metacarpals .
subnormal intellectual functioning which originates during the developmental period .
a seizure is an intermittent abnormality of nervous system physiology characterised by a transient occurrence of signs and / or symptoms due to abnormal excessive or synchronous neuronal activity in the brain .
cerebellar ataxia refers to ataxia due to dysfunction of the cerebellum .
muscular hypotonia is an abnormally low muscle tone  ( the amount of tension or resistance to movement in a muscle )  ,  often involving reduced muscle strength .
a state of disinterestedness ,  listlessness ,  and indifference ,  resulting in difficulty performing simple tasks or concentrating .
mild intellectual disability is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  in the range of 50 - 69 .
a motor disorder characterized by a velocity - dependent increase in tonic stretch reflexes with increased muscle tone ,  exaggerated  ( hyperexcitable )  tendon reflexes .
spasticity and weakness of the leg and hip muscles .
complete absence of wakefulness and content of conscience ,  which manifests itself as a lack of response to any kind of external stimuli .
dysarthric speech is a general description referring to a neurological speech disorder characterized by poor articulation .
a state of abnormally strong desire for sleep during the daytime .
a delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child ,  including motor skills ,  speech and language ,  cognitive skills ,  and social and emotional skills .
spasticity  ( neuromuscular hypertonia )  primarily in the muscles of the legs ,  hips ,  and pelvis .
reduction of neurologic reflexes such as the knee - jerk reaction .
involuntary movements characterized by both athetosis  ( inability to sustain muscles in a fixed position )  and chorea  ( widespread jerky arrhythmic movements )  .
loss of previously present mental abilities ,  generally in adults .
loss of strength in the arm ,  leg ,  and sometimes face on one side of the body .
a type of developmental delay characterized by a delay in acquiring motor skills .
a generalized disorder of peripheral nerves .
atrophy  ( wasting )  of the cerebellum .
abnormality of the corpus callosum .
absence of the corpus callosum as a result of the failure of the corpus callosum to develop ,  which can be the result of a failure in any one of the multiple steps of callosal development including cellular proliferation and migration ,  axonal growth or glial patterning at the midline .
a condition in which there is increased muscle tone so that arms or legs ,  for example ,  are stiff and difficult to move .
a form of hypotension characterized by a sudden fall in blood pressure that occurs when a person assumes a standing position .
syncope refers to a generalized weakness of muscles with loss of postural tone ,  inability to stand upright ,  and loss of consciousness .
a condition characterized by intermittent involuntary contraction of muscles  ( spasms )  related to hypocalcemia or occasionally magnesium deficiency .
bulbar weakness  ( or bulbar palsy )  refers to bilateral impairment of function of the lower cranial nerves ix ,  x ,  xi and xii ,  which occurs due to lower motor neuron lesion either at nuclear or fascicular level in the medulla or from bilateral lesions of the lower cranial nerves outside the brain - stem .
absence of neurologic reflexes such as the knee - jerk reaction .
spastic weakness affecting all four limbs .
inflammation of the meninges .
the term gait disturbance can refer to any disruption of the ability to walk .
lack of clarity and coherence of thought ,  perception ,  understanding ,  or action .
generalized muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  .
structural abnormality affecting one or more of the cranial nerves ,  which emerge directly from the brain stem .
sudden impairment of blood flow to a part of the brain due to occlusion or rupture of an artery to the brain .
encephalopathy is a term that means brain disease ,  damage ,  or malfunction .
characteristic neurologic anomaly resulting form degeneration of dopamine - generating cells in the substantia nigra ,  a region of the midbrain ,  characterized clinically by shaking ,  rigidity ,  slowness of movement and difficulty with walking and gait .
pachygyria is a malformation of cortical development with abnormally wide gyri with sulci 1 , 5 - 3 cm apart and abnormally thick cortex measuring more than 5 mm  ( radiological definition )  .
sustained involuntary muscle contractions that produce twisting and repetitive movements of the body .
a congenital brain malformation typically characterized by incomplete formation of the cerebellar vermis ,  dilation of the fourth ventricle ,  and enlargement of the posterior fossa .
fasciculations or fibrillation affecting the tongue muscle .
a type of ataxia characterized by the inability to carry out movements with the correct range and motion across the plane of more than one joint related to incorrect estimation of the distances required for targeted movements .
an abnormality of the function of the electrical signals with which nerve cells communicate with each other or with muscles as measured by electrophysiological investigations .
an abnormal enlargement  ( i .e .
diminution of tendon reflexes ,  which is an invariable sign of peripheral nerve disease .
any structural abnormality of the cerebellum .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  manifesting in the neonatal period .
underdevelopment of the vermis of cerebellum .
underdevelopment of the cerebellum .
reduced strength of muscles .
eeg shows spikes  (  < 80 ms )  and waves ,  which are recorded over the entire scalp and do not have a specific frequency .
generalised myoclonic seizure provoked by flashing or flickering light .
impairment of certain skills such as reading or writing ,  coordination ,  self - control ,  or attention that interfere with the ability to learn .
absence of the septum pellucidum .
an abnormally increased muscular tone that causes fixed abnormal postures .
a form of hydrocephalus in which there is no visible obstruction to the flow of the cerebrospinal fluid between the ventricles and subarachnoid space .
involuntary movements of one hand that accompany and mirror intentional movements of the opposite hand .
very brief ,  involuntary random muscular contractions occurring at rest ,  in response to sensory stimuli ,  or accompanying voluntary movements .
an unintentional ,  oscillating to - and - fro muscle movement about a joint axis .
a partial failure of the development of the corpus callosum .
a spectrum of malformations of cortical development caused by insufficient neuronal migration that subsumes the terms agyria ,  pachygyria and subcortical band heterotopia .
increase in amplitude of a long - loop response upon somatosensory evoked potential testing ,  representing an electrically evoked myoclonic response .
hemorrhage into the parenchyma of the brain .
damage to cerebral nuclei caused in infants by highly increased levels of unconjugated bilirubin .
complete lack of development of speech and language abilities .
hyperreflexia is the presence of hyperactive stretch reflexes of the muscles .
tendon reflexes that are noticeably more active than usual  ( conventionally denoted 3 +  on clinical examination )  .
facial diplegia refers to bilateral facial palsy  ( bilateral facial palsy is much rarer than unilateral facial palsy )  .
abnormal coordination of muscles involved in speech .
jerk - locked averaging  ( jla )  is used to record the timing and distribution of brain activity preceding brisk involuntary movements such as those observed in patients with myoclonus .
diffuse enlargement of the entire cerebral hemispheres leading to macrocephaly  ( with or without overlying cortical dysplasia )  .
asymmetric head shape ,  which is usually a combination of unilateral occipital flattening with ipsilateral frontal prominence ,  leading to rhomboid cranial shape .
holoprosencephaly is a structural anomaly of the brain in which the developing forebrain fails to divide into two separate hemispheres and ventricles .
head movements associated with nystagmus ,  that may represent an attempt to compensate for the involuntary eye movements and to improve vision .
a localized defect in the bone of the skull resulting from abnormal embryological development .
craniosynostosis refers to the premature closure of the cranial sutures .
an abnormal structure or form of the joints ,  i .e . ,  one or more of the articulations where two bones join .
inflammation of a joint .
inflammatory changes in the synovial membranes and articular structures with widespread fibrinoid degeneration of the collagen fibers in mesenchymal tissues ,  as well as atrophy and rarefaction of bony structures .
a flexion contracture is a bent  ( flexed )  joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
displacement or malalignment of joints .
a reduction in the freedom of movement of one or more joints .
limited ability to straighten the arm at the elbow joint .
the ability of a joint to move beyond its normal range of motion .
an abnormality of the hip joint .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the hip .
joint stiffness is a perceived sensation of tightness in a joint or joints when attempting to move them after a period of inactivity .
lack of stability of a joint .
an abnormality of the liver .
a chronic disorder of the liver in which liver tissue becomes scarred and is partially replaced by regenerative nodules and fibrotic tissue resulting in loss of liver function .
the presence of excessive fibrous connective tissue in the liver .
impairment of bile flow due to obstruction in bile ducts .
steatosis is a term used to denote lipid accumulation within hepatocytes .
a kind of neoplasm of the liver that originates in hepatocytes and presents macroscopically as a soft and hemorrhagic tan mass in the liver .
a form of hepatic steatosis characterized by the presence of large ,  lipid - laden vesicles in the affected hepatocytes .
the presence of fibrosis affecting the interlobular stroma of liver .
impairment of bile flow due to obstruction in the small bile ducts within the liver .
proliferative changes of the bile ducts .
increased pressure in the portal vein .
reduced ability of the liver to perform its functions .
inflammation of the liver due to infection with enterovirus .
a type of cirrhosis characterized by the presence of small regenerative nodules .
a form of hepatic steatosis characterized by the presence of small ,  lipid - laden vesicles in the affected hepatocytes .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on the x chromosome .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for recessive traits related to a gene encoded on the x chromosome .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for dominant traits related to a gene encoded on the x chromosome .
a mode of inheritance that depends on a mixture of major and minor genetic determinants possibly together with environmental factors .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on the mitochondrial genome .
a mode of inheritance in which a trait or disorder results from a de novo mutation occurring after conception ,  rather than being inherited from a preceding generation .
simultaneous enlargement of the liver and spleen .
an anomaly of the musculature of foot .
a structural abnormality of the abdomen  ( 'belly' )  ,  that is ,  the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax .
the presence of genetically distinct populations of somatic cells in a given organism caused by dna mutations ,  epigenetic alterations of dna ,  chromosomal abnormalities or the spontaneous reversion of inherited mutations .
being related to a de novo variant that occurs in a single cell in developing somatic tissue .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on the y chromosome .
syndactyly with fusion of toes one to three .
absence or underdevelopment of the musculature .
absence or underdevelopment of the muscles of the shoulder .
absence or underdevelopment of the musculature of the upper limbs .
absence or underdevelopment of the muscles of the upper arm .
osteolysis involving metatarsal bones .
increased density of the bony tissue of the scapula .
a delay in closure  ( ossification )  of the anterior fontanelle ,  which generally undergoes closure around the 18th month of life .
a tendency to hold the chin elevated by about 20 to 30 degrees to compensate for a limitation of eye movement .
the presence of an increased number of freckles ,  small circular spots on the skin that are darker than the surrounding skin because of deposits of melanin .
slightly elevated lesions on or in the skin with a diameter of over 5 mm .
repetitive pressing ,  poking ,  and / or rubbing in the eyes .
separation of the vitreous humor from the retina .
congenital non - progressive ophthalmoplegia with multiple extraocular muscle restrictions .
axenfeld's anomaly is a bilateral disorder characterized by a prominent ,  anteriorly displaced schwalbe's line  ( posterior embryotoxon )  and peripheral iris strands which span the anterior chamber angle to attach to schwalbe's line .
an area of the retina that is buckled so that a sector - shaped sheet of retina lies in front of the normal retina .
osteolysis affecting carpal bones .
underdevelopment of one or more carpal bones .
increased width of a non - thumb digit of the hand .
failure to thrive  ( ftt )  refers to a child whose physical growth is substantially below the norm .
a deficiency or slowing down of growth pre -  and postnatally .
an abnormal restriction of fetal growth with fetal weight below the tenth percentile for gestational age .
accumulation of substantial excess body fat .
smaller than normal size according to sex and gestational age related norms ,  defined as a weight below the 10th percentile for the gestational age .
a tall and slim body build with increased arm span to height ratio  (  > 1 .05 )  and a reduced upper - to - lower segment ratio  (  < 0 .85 )  ,  i .e . ,  unusually long arms and legs .
the term large for gestational age applies to babies whose birth weight lies above the 90th percentile for that gestational age .
death within the first 24 months of life .
overgrowth of only one side of the body .
a mild degree of slow or limited growth after birth ,  being between two and three standard deviations below age -  and sex - related norms .
asthenic habitus refers to a slender build with long limbs ,  an angular profile ,  and prominent muscles or bones .
protrusion of abdominal contents through a defect in the abdominal wall musculature around the umbilicus .
a thrusting or bulging out of the abdomen .
a midline anterior incomplete closure of the abdominal wall in which there is herniation of the abdominal viscera into the base of the abdominal cord .
a separation of the rectus abdominis muscle into right and left halves  ( which are normally joined at the midline at the linea alba )  .
accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity .
a type of congenital ventral incomplete closure of the abdominal wall in which the intestines and sometimes other organs extend freely into the amniotic fluid space through a small opening in the abdomen ,  usually to the right of the umbilicus .
abnormally prominent umbilicus  ( belly button )  .
anterior malposition of the anus .
a morphological anomaly of the rib cage .
excessive postnatal growth which may comprise increased weight ,  increased length ,  and / or increased head circumference .
an abnormality of the structure or appearance of the umbilicus .
a rounded ,  bulging chest that resembles the shape of a barrel .
lack of symmetry between the left and right halves of the thorax .
an abnormality of fetal movement .
an abnormal reduction in quantity or strength of fetal movements .
abnormality of the amniotic fluid ,  which is the fluid contained in the amniotic sac surrounding the developing fetus .
the presence of excess amniotic fluid in the uterus during pregnancy .
diminished amniotic fluid volume in pregnancy .
abnormally increased production of urine by the fetus resulting in polyhydramnios .
increased distance between the maxillary central permanent incisor tooth .
the presence of multiple impacted teeth .
increased size of the teeth ,  which can be defined as a mesiodistal tooth diameter  ( width )  more than 2 sd above mean for age .
an abnormality of the integument ,  which consists of the skin and the superficial fascia .
hypercortisolemia associated with a primary defect of the adrenal gland leading to overproduction of cortisol .
infections of the skin that happen multiple times .
loose and sagging skin often associated with loss of skin elasticity .
a form of nystagmus in which the eyeball makes rotary motions around the axis .
the presence of a fistula connecting the urinary bladder to the vagina .
the rib cage has the shape of a wide mouthed bell .
agenesis specifically affecting one of the classes incisor ,  premolar ,  or molar .
decreased size of the maxillary permanent incisor .
an abnormality of the hair .
a noncongenital process of hair loss ,  which may progress to partial or complete baldness .
abnormality of the nail .
the natural longitudinal  ( posterodistal )  convex arch is not present or is inverted .
an abnormality of the larynx .
laryngomalacia is a congenital abnormality of the laryngeal cartilage in which the cartilage is floppy and prolapses over the larynx during inspiration .
stricture or narrowing of the larynx that may be associated with symptoms of respiratory difficulty depending on the degree of laryngeal narrowing .
decreased strength of the vocal folds .
a loss of the ability to move the vocal folds .
hoarseness refers to a change in the pitch or quality of the voice ,  with the voice sounding weak ,  very breathy ,  scratchy ,  or husky .
a type of speech characterized by the presence of an abnormally increased nasal airflow during speech .
an impairment in the ability to produce voice sounds .
an abnormal increase in the pitch  ( frequency )  of the voice .
reduced intensity  ( volume )  of speech .
the birth of a baby of less than 37 weeks of gestational age .
a position of the fetus at delivery in which the fetus enters the birth canal with the buttocks or feet first .
any abnormality of the cardiovascular system .
any structural anomaly of the heart .
a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart .
atrial septal defect  ( asd )  is a congenital abnormality of the interatrial septum that enables blood flow between the left and right atria via the interatrial septum .
any structural anomaly of the mitral valve .
one or both of the leaflets  ( cusps )  of the mitral valve bulges back into the left atrium upon contraction of the left ventricle .
the presence of an abnormality of cardiac function that is responsible for the failure of the heart to pump blood at a rate that is commensurate with the needs of the tissues or a state in which abnormally elevated filling pressures are required for the heart to do so .
a congenital cardiac malformation comprising pulmonary stenosis ,  overriding aorta ,  ventricular septum defect ,  and right ventricular hypertrophy .
a structural anomaly of the muscle layer of the heart wall .
a myocardial disorder in which the heart muscle is structurally and functionally abnormal ,  in the absence of coronary artery disease ,  hypertension ,  valvular disease and congenital heart disease sufficient to cause the observed myocardial abnormality .
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy  ( hcm )  is defined by the presence of increased ventricular wall thickness or mass in the absence of loading conditions  ( hypertension ,  valve disease )  sufficient to cause the observed abnormality .
increased size of the heart .
any structural abnormality of the pulmonary valve .
a narrowing of the right ventricular outflow tract that can occur at the pulmonary valve  ( valvular stenosis )  or just below the pulmonary valve  ( infundibular stenosis )  .
in utero ,  the ductus arteriosus  ( da )  serves to divert ventricular output away from the lungs and toward the placenta by connecting the main pulmonary artery to the descending aorta .
dilated cardiomyopathy  ( dcm )  is defined by the presence of left ventricular dilatation and left ventricular systolic dysfunction in the absence of abnormal loading conditions  ( hypertension ,  valve disease )  or coronary artery disease sufficient to cause global systolic impairment .
the heart suddenly and unexpectedly stops beating resulting in death within a short time period  ( generally within 1 h of symptom onset )  .
any abnormality of the aortic valve .
the presence of an aortic valve with two instead of the normal three cusps  ( flaps )  .
right - sided heart failure resulting from chronic hypertension in the pulmonary arteries and right ventricle .
a rapid heartrate that exceeds the range of the normal resting heartrate for age .
the presence of a stenosis  ( narrowing )  of the aortic valve .
the heart is located in the right hand sided hemithorax .
an abnormality of the mitral valve characterized by insufficiency or incompetence of the mitral valve resulting in retrograde leaking of blood through the mitral valve upon ventricular contraction .
any structural abnormality of a cardiac valve .
failure of the foramen ovale to seal postnatally ,  leaving a potential conduit between the left and right cardiac atria .
increased time between the start of the q wave and the end of the t wave as measured by the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
necrosis of the myocardium caused by an obstruction of the blood supply to the heart and often associated with chest pain ,  shortness of breath ,  palpitations ,  and anxiety as well as characteristic ekg findings and elevation of serum markers including creatine kinase - mb fraction and troponin .
an insufficiency of the aortic valve ,  leading to regurgitation  ( backward flow )  of blood from the aorta into the left ventricle .
a single arterial trunk arises from the cardiac mass .
a slower than normal heart rate  ( in adults ,  slower than 60 beats per minute )  .
uncontrolled contractions of muscles fibers in the left ventricle not producing contraction of the left ventricle .
a type of ventricular tachycardia characterized by polymorphioc qrs complexes that change in amplitue and cycle length ,  and thus have the appearance of oscillating around the baseline in the ekg .
in this case the right ventricle is more muscular than normal ,  causing a characteristic boot - shaped  ( coeur - en - sabot )  appearance as seen on anterior -  posterior chest x - rays .
a complex congenital heart defect in which the aorta arises from the morphologic right ventricle and the pulmonary artery arises from the morphologic left ventricle .
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with an asymmetrical pattern of hypertrophy ,  with a predilection for the interventricular septum and myocyte disarray .
an anomaly of the intra - atrial or intraventricular septum .
a congenital heart defect characteizred by a specific combination of heart defects with a common atrioventricular valve ,  primum atrial septal defect and inlet ventricular septal defect .
reduction of the diameter of the coronary arteries as the result of an accumulation of atheromatous plaques within the walls of the coronary arteries ,  which increases the risk of myocardial ischemia .
delayed or lack of conduction of atrial depolarizations through the atrioventricular node to the ventricles .
an abnormality of the aorta .
coarctation of the aorta is a narrowing or constriction of a segment of the aorta .
paroxysmal chest pain that occurs with exertion or stress and is related to myocardial ischemia .
a fixed form of obstruction to blood flow across the left - ventricular outflow tract related to stenosis  ( narrowing )  below the level of the aortic valve .
congenital malformation of the ventral wall with partial or total evisceration of the heart outside the thoracic cavity and through the defect in the ventral wall .
a kind of atrial septum defect arising from an enlarged foramen ovale ,  inadequate growth of the septum secundum ,  or excessive absorption of the septum primum .
myocardial fibrosis is characterized by dysregulated collagen turnover  ( increased synthesis predominates over unchanged or decreased degradation )  and excessive diffuse collagen accumulation in the interstitial and perivascular spaces as well as by phenotypically transformed fibroblasts ,  termed myofibroblasts .
bradycardia related to a mean resting sinus rate of less than 50 beats per minute .
a type of subvalvular aortic stenosis resulting from thickening of the musculature of the interventricular septum ,  which results in obstruction to blood flow through the left - ventricular outflow tract .
a type of supraventricular tachycardia in which the atria are the principal site of electrophysiologic disturbance .
pattern of blood flow in the heart that deviates from the normal circuit of the circulatory system .
pattern of blood flow in the heart that deviates from the normal circuit of the circulatory system from the right side of the heart to the left .
an abrupt loss of heart function .
a left - right reversal  ( or  \ "mirror reflection \ " )  of the anatomical location of the major thoracic and abdominal organs .
an abnormality of the pericardium ,  i .e . ,  of the fluid filled sac that surrounds the heart and the proximal ends of the aorta ,  vena cava ,  and the pulmonary artery .
accumulation of fluid within the pericardium .
rapid and unexpected death .
irreversible damage to heart tissue  ( myocardium )  due to lack of oxygen after a heart attack  ( myocardial infarction )  .
inflammation of the sac - like covering around the heart  ( pericardium )  .
any structural anomaly of the tricuspid valve .
one or more of the leaflets  ( cusps )  of the tricuspid valve bulges back into the right atrium upon contraction of the right ventricle .
an obstruction to the forward flow of blood in the outflow tract of the right ventricle .
diffuse thickening of the ventricular endocardium and by associated myocardial dysfunction
an abnormality of the right ventricle of the heart .
reduced ability of the right ventricle to perform its function  ( to receive blood from the right atrium and to eject blood into the pulmonary artery )  ,  often leading to pitting peripheral edema ,  ascites ,  and hepatomegaly .
third - degree atrioventricular  ( av )  block  ( also referred to as complete heart block )  is the complete dissociation of the atria and the ventricles .
a congenital malformation of the outflow tract of the heart .
any structural abnormality of the left ventricle of the heart .
enlargement or increased size of the heart left ventricle .
an abnormality of a cardiac ventricle .
enlargement of the cardiac ventricular muscle tissue with increase in the width of the wall of the ventricle and loss of elasticity .
a disorder of the cardiac conduction system of the heart characterized by ventricular preexcitation due to the presence of an abnormal accessory atrioventricular electrical conduction pathway .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in a coronary artery .
an abnormal narrowing of the orifice of the mitral valve .
double outlet right ventricle  ( dorv )  is a type of ventriculoarterial connection in which both great vessels arise entirely or predominantly from the right ventricle .
a form of heart failure characterized by elevated cardiac output .
restrictive left ventricular physiology is characterized by a pattern of ventricular filling in which increased stiffness of the myocardium causes ventricular pressure to rise precipitously with only small increases in volume ,  defined as restrictive ventricular physiology in the presence of normal or reduced diastolic volumes  ( of one or both ventricles )  ,  normal or reduced systolic volumes ,  and normal ventricular wall thickness .
a cerebrovascular accident  ( stroke )  that occurs because of thromboembolism .
a progressive form of hearing impairment .
an abnormality of the pancreas .
the presence of inflammation in the pancreas .
a congenital anomaly in which the pancreas completely  ( or sometimes incompletely )  encircles the second portion of duodenum and occasionally obstructs the more proximal duodenum .
a acute form of pancreatitis .
a cyst of the pancreas that possess a lining of mucous epithelium .
impaired function of the exocrine pancreas associated with a reduced ability to digest foods because of lack of digestive enzymes .
a structural anomaly of the nasopharynx .
the male foreskin cannot be fully retracted from the head of the penis .
reduced ability to pass air through the nasal cavity often leading to mouth breathing .
an abnormality of the spleen .
abnormal increased size of the spleen .
absence  ( aplasia )  of the spleen .
an accessory spleen is a round ,  iso - echogenic ,  homogenic and smooth structure and is seen as a normal variant mostly on the medial contour of the spleen ,  near the hilus or around the lower pole .
polysplenia is a congenital disease manifested by multiple small accessory spleens .
the presence of only one working lower chamber in the heart ,  usually with a virtual absence of the ventricular septum and usually present in conjunction with double inlet left or right ventricle .
an abnormality of the functioning of the vestibular apparatus .
reduced functioning of the vestibular apparatus .
a form of sensorineural hearing impairment that affects primarily the higher frequencies .
an abnormality of the skeleton of foot .
the presence of an unusually high plantar arch .
talipes equinovarus  ( also called clubfoot )  typically has four main components: inversion and adduction of the forefoot ;  inversion of the heel and hindfoot ;  equinus  ( limitation of extension )  of the ankle and subtalar joint ;  and internal rotation of the leg .
a foot where the longitudinal arch of the foot is in contact with the ground or floor when the individual is standing ;  or ,  in a patient lying supine ,  a foot where the arch is in contact with the surface of a flat board pressed against the sole of the foot by the examiner with a pressure similar to that expected from weight bearing ;  or ,  the height of the arch is reduced .
hyperextension of the metatarsal - phalangeal joint with hyperflexion of the proximal interphalangeal  ( pip )  joint .
a foot for which the measured width is above the 95th centile for age ;  or ,  a foot that appears disproportionately wide for its length .
webbing or fusion of the toes ,  involving soft parts only or including bone structure .
a contracture of the achilles tendon .
a deformity of foot and ankle in which the foot is bent down and outwards .
a measured foot length that is more than 2 sd below the mean for a newborn of 27  -  41 weeks gestation ,  or foot that is less than the 3rd centile for individuals from birth to 16 years of age  ( objective )  .
bilateral clubfoot deformity  ( see hp:0001762 )  .
an anomaly of a toe .
an abnormality of the morphology of the toes ,  such that the tips of the toes are prominent and bulbous .
increased side - to - side width of a metatarsal bone .
a foot for which the measured width is below the 5th centile for age ;  or ,  a foot that appears disproportionately narrow for its length .
an abnormality of the birth process .
premature rupture of membranes  ( prom )  is a condition which occurs in pregnancy when the amniotic sac ruptures more than an hour before the onset of labor .
the abnormal accumulation of fluid in two or more fetal compartments ,  including ascites ,  pleural effusion ,  pericardial effusion ,  and skin edema .
a type of hydrops fetalis in which there is no identifiable circulating antibody to red blood cell antigens  .
accumulation of fluid in the peritoneal cavity during the fetal period .
a nail that is diminished in length and width ,  i .e . ,  underdeveloped nail .
when viewed on end  ( with the digit tip pointing toward the examiner's eye )  the curve of the nail forms a tighter curve of convexity .
aplasia of the nail .
decreased length of nail .
underdevelopment of the toenail .
congenital absence of the toenail .
small  ( typically about 1 mm or less in size )  depressions on the dorsal nail surface .
underdevelopment of a fingernail .
nail that appears thick when viewed on end .
detachment of the nail from the nail bed .
longitudinal ,  linear prominences in the nail plate .
nails that easily break .
a nail plate that has a longitudinal separation and the two sections of the nail share the same lateral radius of curvature .
toenail changes apart from changes of the color of the toenail  ( nail dyschromia )  that involve partial or complete disruption of the various keratinous layers of the nail plate .
when viewed on end  ( with the finger tip pointing toward the examiner's eye )  the curve of the fingernail forms a tighter curve of convexity .
deeply placed nails .
nail that appears thin when viewed on end .
absence of a fingernail .
the nail disease paronychia is an often - tender bacterial or fungal hand infection or foot infection where the nail and skin meet at the side or the base of a finger or toenail .
white discoloration of the nails .
increased width of nail .
lateral deviation of the great toe  ( i .e . ,  in the direction of the little toe )  .
reduction inexisting body weight .
congenital occlusion of a tube in the genital tract .
a kind of polydactyly characterized by the presence of a supernumerary toe or toes .
polydactyly of the foot most commonly refers to the presence of six toes on one foot .
a toe that appears disproportionately short compared to the foot .
abnormalities of the metatarsal bones  ( i .e .
increased back to front length of the foot .
camptodactyly is a painless flexion contracture of the proximal interphalangeal  ( pip )  joint that is usually gradually progressive .
visible increase in width of the non - hallux digit without an increase in the dorso - ventral dimension .
the presence of both a prominent heel and a convex contour of the sole .
a condition in which middle parts of the foot  ( toes and metatarsals )  are missing giving a cleft appearance .
the metatarsals are deviated medially  ( tibially )  ,  that is ,  the bones in the front half of the foot bend or turn in toward the body .
duplication of all or part of the first ray .
this term applies for all abnormalities of the big toe ,  also called hallux .
describes a foot digit resting on the dorsal surface of an adjacent digit when the foot is at rest .
increased length of the big toe .
this is a postural deformity in which the foot is positioned up against the tibia .
a developmental defect resulting in the presence of fewer than the normal number of toes .
an abnormality of the tarsus are the cluster of seven bones in the foot between the tibia and fibula and the metatarsus ,  including the calcaneus  ( heel )  bone and the talus  ( ankle )  bone .
a widely spaced gap between the first toe  ( the great toe )  and the second toe .
gout affecting the metatarsophalangeal joint of big toe .
short distance from the end of the toe to the most distal interphalangeal crease or distal interphalangeal joint flexion point ,  i .e . ,  abnormally short distal phalanx of toe .
bending or curvature of a toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
bending or curvature of a fifth toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
spontaneous detachment of a foot from the body .
the presence of unusually deep creases  ( ridges / wrinkles )  on the skin of sole of foot .
an abnormality of the hematopoietic system .
an abnormality of platelets .
a reduction in the number of circulating thrombocytes .
a neutrophil abnormality .
an abnormally low number of neutrophils in the peripheral blood .
an abnormal reduction in numbers of all blood cell types  ( red blood cells ,  white blood cells ,  and platelets )  .
any structural abnormality of erythrocytes  ( red - blood cells )  .
a type of anemia caused by premature destruction of red blood cells  ( hemolysis )  .
an abnormal count or structure of eosinophils .
increased count of eosinophils in the blood .
an abnormality of leukocytes .
an abnormal decreased number of leukocytes in the blood .
a deformity of foot and ankle that has different subtypes that are talipes equinovarus ,  talipes equinovalgus ,  talipes calcaneovarus and talipes calcaneovalgus .
talipes calcaneovalgus is a flexible foot deformity  ( as opposed to a rigid congenital vertical talus foot deformity )  that can either present as a positional or structural foot deformity depending on severity and / or causality .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the second toe .
an infection of bone of the foot .
a reduced number of lymphocytes in the blood .
anemia characterized by the presence of erythroblasts that are larger than normal  ( megaloblasts )  .
an autoimmune form of hemolytic anemia .
an abnormal susceptibility to bleeding ,  often referred to as a bleeding diathesis .
increased numbers of platelets in the peripheral blood .
a reduced number of reticulocytes in the peripheral blood .
a kind of anemia in which the volume of the red blood cells is normal .
the presence of an increased mass of red blood cells in the circulation .
an elevation above the normal ratio of the volume of red blood cells to the total volume of blood .
polycythemia is diagnosed if the red blood cell count ,  the hemoglobin level ,  and the red blood cell volume all exceed the upper limits of normal .
giant platelets are larger than 7 micrometers and usually 10 to 20 micrometers .
a reduction in erythrocytes volume or hemoglobin concentration .
a type of neutropenia that is observed in the presence of granulocyte - specific antibodies .
thrombocytopenia with congenital onset .
the formation of a blood clot inside a blood vessel that subsequently travels through the blood stream from the site where it formed to another location in the body ,  generally leading to vascular occlusion at the distant site .
anemia with varying degrees of erythrocytic hypoplasia without leukopenia or thrombocytopenia .
a cancer of the blood and bone marrow characterized by an abnormal proliferation of leukocytes .
any structural abnormality or abnormal count of granulocytes .
any structural abnormality or abnormal count of basophils .
an abnormally reduced number of granulocytes in the blood .
aplastic anemia is defined as pancytopenia with a hypocellular marrow .
a form of amyloidosis that affects the kidney .
sudden loss of renal function ,  as manifested by decreased urine production ,  and a rise in serum creatinine or blood urea nitrogen concentration  ( azotemia )  .
the presence of stenosis of the renal artery .
the presence of clear ,  sharply defined vacuoles in the lymphocyte cytoplasm .
an elevation in the number of reticulocytes  ( immature erythrocytes )  in the peripheral blood circulation .
sideroblastic anemia results from a defect in the incorporation of iron into the heme molecule .
acanthocytosis is a type of poikilocytosis characterized by the presence of spikes on the cell surface .
an abnormality of the process of blood coagulation .
decreased activity of coagulation factor xi .
a type of anemia characterized by an abnormally low concentration of hemoglobin in the erythrocytes .
this term refers to an abnormally increased susceptibility to bruising  ( purpura ,  petechiae ,  or ecchymoses )  .
a kind of anemia in which the volume of the red blood cells is reduced .
abnormal acid accumulation or depletion of base .
metabolic acidosis  ( ma )  is characterized by a fall in blood ph due to a reduction of serum bicarbonate concentration .
a decreased concentration of glucose in the blood .
elevated body temperature due to failed thermoregulation .
presence of elevated levels of ketone bodies in the body .
acidosis owing to malfunction of the kidney tubules with accumulation of metabolic acids and hyperchloremia ,  potentially leading to complications including hypokalemia ,  hypercalcinuria ,  nephrolithiasis and nephrocalcinosis .
depletion of acid or accumulation base in the body fluids .
alkalosis due to excess loss of carbon dioxide from the body .
glucose intolerance  ( gi )  can be defined as dysglycemia that comprises both prediabetes and diabetes .
a type of diabetic metabolic abnormality with an accumulation of ketone bodies .
periodic  ( episodic or recurrent )  bouts of fever .
episodes of fever for which no infectious cause can be identified .
obesity located preferentially in the trunk of the body as opposed to the extremities .
excessive thirst manifested by excessive fluid intake .
a sensation that the heart is pounding or racing ,  which is a non - specific sign but may be a manifestation of arrhythmia .
a type of hearing impairment prominently characterized by a difficulty in understanding speech ,  rather than an inability to hear speech .
absence or underdevelopment of the metatarsal bones .
any anomaly of the scalp ,  the skin an subcutaneous tissue of the head on which head hair grows .
an abnormality of the mesangium ,  i .e . ,  of the central part of the renal glomerulus between capillaries .
diffuse sclerosis of the mesangium ,  as manifestated by diffuse mesangial matrix expansion .
an abnormality that involves the tubules and interstitial tissue of the kidney .
a form of inflammation of the kidney affecting the interstitium of the kidneys surrounding the tubules .
a malfunctioning of the spleen in which it prematurely destroys red blood cells .
a type of anemia characterized by increased size of erythrocytes with increased mean corpuscular volume  ( mcv )  and increased mean corpuscular hemoglobin  ( mch )  .
the presence of thrombocytopenia in combination with detection of antiplatelet antibodies .
an abnormal increase in the number of leukocytes in the blood .
decreased cell membrane concentration of glycoprotein iib - iiia .
an abnormality of coagulation related to a decreased concentration of antithrombin - iii .
venous or arterial thrombosis  ( formation of blood clots )  of spontaneous nature and which cannot be fully explained by acquired risk  ( e .g .
the process of hematopoiesis occurring outside of the bone marrow  ( in the liver ,  thymus ,  and spleen )  in the postnatal organisms .
abnormal increased number of megaloblasts in the bone marrow .
the presence of an abnormal number of fragmented red blood cells  ( schistocytes )  in the blood .
an abnormality of histiocytes ,  in which the cells take on a sea blue appearance due to abnormally increased lipid content .
a reduction in the expression of cd43 on the cell surface of lymphocytes .
a decreased concentration of glucose in the blood associated with a reduced concentration of ketone bodies .
an increased concentration of ammonia in the blood .
recurrent episodes of decreased concentration of glucose in the blood .
decreased fetal activity associated with multiple joint contractures ,  facial anomalies and pulmonary hypoplasia .
absence or hypoplasia of toes .
excretion of non - amino organic acids in urine .
acidosis resulting from accumulation of ketone bodies .
an inability of the tubules in the kidney to reabsorb small molecules ,  causing increased urinary loss of electrolytes  ( sodium ,  potassium ,  bicarbonate )  ,  minerals ,  glucose ,  amino acids ,  and water .
acidosis  ( ph less than 7 .35 )  that develops with an increase in ionic chloride .
longstanding metabolic acidosis .
recurrent attacks of acute inflammatory arthritis of a joint or set of joints caused by elevated levels of uric acid in the blood which crystallize and are deposited in joints ,  tendons ,  and surrounding tissues .
an abnormal morphology  ( form )  of the face or its components .
reduced distance from the anterior border of the naris to the subnasale .
accentuated ,  prominent philtral ridges giving rise to an exaggerated groove in the midline between the nasal base and upper vermillion border .
a congenital malformation with a cleft  ( gap or opening )  in the face .
bilateral bulging of the lateral frontal bone prominences with relative sparing of the midline .
a facial appearance characteristic of a fetus or neonate due to oligohydramnios experienced in the womb ,  comprising ocular hypertelorism ,  low - set ears ,  receding chin ,  and flattening of the nose .
a structural abnormality of the central nervous system .
an abnormality of the viscera of the abdomen .
forceful ejection of the contents of the stomach through the mouth by means of a series of involuntary spasmic contractions .
abnormally increased frequency of loose or watery bowel movements .
difficulty in swallowing .
nausea is a commonly encountered symptom that has been defined as an unpleasant painless subjective feeling that one will imminently vomit .
a sensation of unease in the stomach together with an urge to vomit .
infrequent or difficult evacuation of feces .
a condition in which the stomach contents leak backwards from the stomach into the esophagus through the lower esophageal sphincter .
an abnormal narrowing of the pylorus .
congenital absence of the anus ,  i .e . ,  the opening at the bottom end of the intestinal tract .
impaired ability to absorb one or more nutrients from the intestine .
abnormal narrowing of the anal opening .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  and perceived to originate in the abdomen .
the presence of chronic diarrhea ,  which is usually taken to mean diarrhea that has persisted for over 4 weeks .
a structural abnormality of the esophagus .
a developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the esophagus such that the esophagus ends in a blind pouch rather than connecting to the stomach .
an inadequate sucking reflex ,  resulting in the difficult of newborns to be breast - fed .
an abnormaltiy of the rectum ,  the final segment of the large intestine that stores solid waste until it passes through the anus .
protrusion of the rectal mucous membrane through the anus .
the presence of a hernia in which the upper part of the stomach ,  i .e . ,  mainly the gastric cardia protrudes through the diaphragmatic esophageal hiatus .
inflammation ,  or an inflammatory state in the large intestine .
a lack or loss of appetite for food  ( as a medical condition )  .
extreme dilation of the submucusoal veins in the lower portion of the esophagus .
a pathological narrowing of the esophagus that is caused by the development of a ring of scar tissue that constricts the esophageal lumen .
a condition in which there is increased production of gastrin by a gastrin - secreting tumor  ( usually located in the pancreas ,  duodenum ,  or abdominal lymph nodes )  that stimulates the gastric mucosa to maximal activity ,  with consequent gastrointestinal mucosal ulceration .
reduced body temperature due to failed thermoregulation .
the inability to maintain a comfortably body temperature in warm or hot weather .
malignant hyperthermia is characterized by a rapid increase in temperature to 39 - 42 degrees c in response to inhalational anesthetics such as halothane or to muscle relaxants such as succinylcholine .
atrophy of the cortex of the kidney .
a type of renal tubular acidosis characterized by a failure of the proximal tubular cells to reabsorb bicarbonate ,  leading to urinary bicarbonate wasting and subsequent acidemia .
an abnormality of the glabella .
forward protrusion of the glabella .
a facial appearance characteristic of myopathic conditions .
atrophy  ( wasting ,  decrease in size of cells or tissue )  affecting the cerebrum .
any structural abnormality of the telencephalon ,  which is also known as the cerebrum .
spasticity  ( velocity - dependent increase in tonic stretch reflexes with increased muscle tone and hyperexcitable tendon reflexes )  in the muscles of the lower limbs ,  hips ,  and pelvis
any structural abnormality of the pyramidal tract ,  whose chief element ,  the corticospinal tract ,  is the only direct connection between the brain and the spinal cord .
continuous involuntary sustained muscle contraction .
spasticity is manifested by increased stretch reflex which is intensified with movement velocity .
a type of ataxia characterized by the impairment of the ability to coordinate the movements required for normal walking .
bradykinesia literally means slow movement ,  and is used clinically to denote a slowness in the execution of movement  ( in contrast to hypokinesia ,  which is used to refer to slowness in the initiation of movement )  .
a bilateral tonic - clonic seizure is a seizure defined by a tonic  ( bilateral increased tone ,  lasting seconds to minutes )  and then a clonic  ( bilateral sustained rhythmic jerking )  phase .
a kind of ataxia that affects movements of the extremities .
a neurological condition related to lesions of the basal ganglia leading to typical abnormalities including akinesia  ( inability to initiate changes in activity and perform volitional movements rapidly and easily )  ,  muscular rigidity  ( continuous contraction of muscles with constant resistance to passive movement )  ,  chorea  ( widespread arrhythmic movements of a forcible ,  rapid ,  jerky ,  and restless nature )  ,  athetosis  ( inability to sustain the muscles of the fingers ,  toes ,  or other group of muscles in a fixed position )  ,  and akathisia  ( inability to remain motionless )  .
chorea  ( greek for 'dance' )  refers to widespread arrhythmic involuntary movements of a forcible ,  jerky and restless fashion .
lipofuscin ,  a generic term applied to autofluorescent lipopigment ,  is a mixture of protein and lipid that accumulates in most aging cells ,  particularly those involved in high lipid turnover  ( e .g . ,  the adrenal medulla )  or phagocytosis of other cell types  ( e g . ,  the retinal pigment epithelium or rpe ;  macrophage )  .
a type of ataxia characterized by the impairment of the ability to perform rapidly alternating movements ,  such as pronating and supinating his or her hand on the dorsum of the other hand as rapidly as possible .
migraine is a chronic neurological disorder characterized by episodic attacks of headache and associated symptoms .
a type of migraine in which there is an aura characterized by focal neurological phenomena that usually proceed ,  but may accompany or occur in the absence of ,  the headache .
truncal ataxia is a sign of ataxia characterized by instability of the trunk .
underdevelopment of the corpus callosum .
a type of kinetic tremor that occurs during target directed movement is called intention tremor .
repeated headache attacks lasting 4 - 72 h fulfilling at least two of the following criteria: 1 )  unilateral location ,  2 )  pulsating quality ,  3 )  moderate or severe pain intensity ,  and 4 )  aggravation by or causing avoidance of routine physical activity such as climbing stairs .
a neural tube defect characterized by sac - like protrusions of the brain and the membranes that cover it through openings in the skull .
a type of encephalocele  ( that is ,  a a protrusion of part of the cranial contents including brain tissue through a congenital opening in the cranium ,  typically covered with skin or mucous membrane )  in the occipital region of the skull .
an abnormality of the respiratory system ,  which include the airways ,  lungs ,  and the respiratory muscles .
an abnormality of the upper respiratory tract .
any structural anomaly of the lung .
inflammation of any part of the lung parenchyma .
a functional defect characterized by reduced total lung capacity  ( tlc )  not associated with abnormalities of expiratory airflow or airway resistance .
pulmonary hypertension is defined mean pulmonary artery pressure of 25mmhg or more and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of 15mmhg or less when measured by right heart catheterisation at rest and in a supine position .
difficult or labored breathing .
difficulty in breathing .the physical presentation of respiratory distress is generally referred to as labored breathing ,  while the sensation of respiratory distress is called shortness of breath or dyspnea .
asthma is characterized by increased responsiveness of the tracheobronchial tree to multiple stimuli ,  leading to narrowing of the air passages with resultant dyspnea ,  cough ,  and wheezing .
increased susceptibility to aspiration pneumonia ,  defined as pneumonia due to breathing in foreign material ,  as manifested by a medical history of repeated episodes of aspiration pneumonia .
a developmental defect in the formation of pulmonary lobes .
inflammation of the pleura .
an abnormality of the pulmonary pleura ,  the thin ,  transparent membrane which covers the lungs and lines the inside of the chest walls .
lack of breathing with no movement of the respiratory muscles and no exchange of air in the lungs .
coughing up  ( expectoration )  of blood or blood - streaked sputum from the larynx ,  trachea ,  bronchi ,  or lungs .
accumulation of air in the pleural cavity leading to a partially or completely collapsed lung .
pneumothorax occurring without traumatic injury to the chest or lung .
persistent abnormal dilatation of the bronchi owing to localized and irreversible destruction and widening of the large airways .
abnormality of the cerebral ventricles .
an increase in size of the ventricular system of the brain .
atrophy of the cortex of the cerebrum .
a generalized non - motor  ( absence )  seizure is a type of a type of dialeptic seizure that is of electrographically generalized onset .
a generalized myoclonic seizure is a type of generalized motor seizure characterised by bilateral ,  sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 ms )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  .
polymicrogyria is a congenital malformation of the cerebral cortex characterized by abnormal cortical layering  ( lamination )  and an excessive number of small gyri  ( folds )  .
any structural anomaly that affects the upper motor neuron .
periodic spells of incoordination and imbalance ,  that is ,  episodes of ataxia typically lasting from 10 minutes to several hours or days . \ n
a cavity within the cerebral hemisphere ,  filled with cerebrospinal fluid ,  that communicates directly with the ventricular system .
status epilepticus is a type of prolonged seizure resulting either from the failure of the mechanisms responsible for seizure termination or from the initiation of mechanisms which lead to abnormally prolonged seizures  ( after time point t1 )  .
abnormality of the basal ganglia .
the presence of calcium deposition affecting one or more structures of the basal ganglia .
an abnormal gait pattern in which persons stand and walk with their feet spaced widely apart .
hemorrhage occurring between the arachnoid mater and the pia mater .
an abnormality of the spinal cord  ( myelon )  .
during normal embryological development ,  the spinal cord first occupies the entire length of the vertebral column but goes on to assume a position at the level of l1 due to differential growth of the conus medullaris and the vertebral column .
a dementia associated with degeneration of the frontotemporal lobe and clinically associated with personality and behavioral changes such as disinhibition ,  apathy ,  and lack of insight .
an abnormally decreased phosphate concentration in the blood .
an abnormally high level of uric acid in the blood .
abnormally increased level of blood lactate  ( 2 - hydroxypropanoic acid )  .
an increased concentration of proteins in the blood .
an abnormally increased potassium concentration in the blood .
an elevated concentration of glycine in the blood .
an abnormal increase in the level of triglycerides in the blood .
an increased concentration of homocystine in the urine .
an increased concentration of nitrogen compounds in the blood .
an increased concentration of heparan sulfates in the urine .
an increased concentration of homocystine in the blood .
an increased concentration of lysine in the blood .
hair on the neck extends more inferiorly than usual .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the nail .
inward advance of skin over the nail plate .
a decrease in the ability to perceive vibration in the legs .
a series of rhythmic and involuntary muscle contractions  ( at a frequency of about 5 to 7 hz )  that occur in response to an abruptly applied and sustained stretch .
hemorrhage occurring within the skull .
gliosis is the focal proliferation of glial cells in the central nervous system .
a tendency to fall or the inability to keep oneself from falling ;  imbalance .
a type of tremors that is triggered by holding a limb in a fixed position .
external mechanical compression of the spinal cord .
progressive loss of neural cells and tissue .
abnormal accumulation of fluid in the brain .
an abnormally heightened sensitivity to loud sounds .
pathological protein aggregates formed by hyperphosphorylation of a microtubule - associated protein known as tau ,  causing it to aggregate in an insoluble form .
a defect in the understanding of complex motor commands and in the execution of certain learned movements ,  i .e . ,  deficits in the cognitive components of learned movements .
profound mental retardation is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  below 20 .
delayed myelination in the central nervous system .
a cyst occurring within the choroid plexus within a cerebral ventricle .
spasticity that increases in degree with time .
individuals with pseudobulbar signs often also demonstrate abnormal behavioral symptoms such as inappropriate emotional outbursts of uncontrolled laughter or weeping etc .
a type of motor delay characterized by a delay in acquiring the ability to control the large muscles of the body for walking ,  running ,  sitting ,  and crawling .
defective development of the vermis of cerebellum .
a generalized - onset seizure is a type of seizure originating at some point within ,  and rapidly engaging ,  bilaterally distributed networks .
an abnormal dilatation of the fourth cerebral ventricle .
pseudobulbar signs result from injury to an upper motor neuron lesion to the corticobulbar pathways in the pyramidal tract .
the presence of an excessive amount of fluid in the pleural cavity .
inability to move the muscles of respiration .
an embolus  ( that is ,  an abnormal particle circulating in the blood )  located in the pulmonary artery and thereby blocking blood circulation to the lung .
an increased susceptibility to respiratory infections as manifested by a history of recurrent respiratory infections .
replacement of normal lung tissues by fibroblasts and collagen .
hair shafts are rough in texture .
decreased number of hairs per unit area of skin of the scalp .
a triangular depigmented region of white hairs located in the anterior midline of the scalp .
hair that is fine or thin to the touch .
reduced number or density of axillary hair .
development of gray hair at a younger than normal age .
hair whose growth is slower than normal .
hypopigmented hair that appears silver - gray .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the facial region .
absence of axillary hair .
absence of the eyebrow .
the term woolly hair refers to an abnormal variant of hair that is fine ,  with tightly coiled curls ,  and often hypopigmented .
reduced number or density of pubic hair .
white color  ( lack of pigmentation )  of the eyebrow .
white color  ( lack of pigmentation )  of the eyelashes .
abnormally increased hair growth over much of the entire body .
sparseness of the body hair .
transient ,  non - scarring hair loss and preservation of the hair follicle located in in well - defined patches .
loss of scalp hair at an earlier than normal age .
uncombable hair .
upward and / or sideward growth of anterior hair .
hemorrhage affecting the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormally increased size of the liver .
an abnormality of the intestine .
abnormal loss of protein from the digestive tract related to excessive leakage of plasma proteins into the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract .
an abnormality of the small intestine .
meckel's diverticulum is a congenital diverticulum located in the distal ileum .
an abnormality of the duodenum ,  i .e . ,  the first section of the small intestine .
a developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the duodenal lumen ,  that is ,  an abnormal closure of the duodenum .
the vomiting of blood .
the passage of blackish ,  tarry feces associated with gastrointestinal hemorrhage .
any abnormality of the large intestine .
an abnormality resulting from a lack of intestinal ganglion cells  ( i .e . ,  an aganglionic section of bowel )  that results in bowel obstruction with enlargement of the colon .
the presence of multiple diverticula of the colon .
repeated episodes of diarrhea separated by periods without diarrhea .
chronic inflammation of the nasal mucosa .
more pronounced paramedian peaks and median notch of the cupid's bow .
a focal clonic seizure is a type of focal motor seizure characterized by sustained rhythmic jerking ,  that is regularly repetitive .
an exaggerated startle reaction in response to a sudden unexpected visual or acoustic stimulus ,  or a quick movement near the face .
a form of dystonia characterized by episodes of dystonia  ( often hemidystonia or generalized )  lasting from minutes to hours .
an abnormality resulting from an anomaly of neuronal migration ,  i .e . ,  of the process by which neurons travel from their origin to their final position in the brain .
an abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
weakness of all four limbs .
an abnormality resulting from a lesion of the sympathetic nervous system characterized by a combination of unilateral ptosis ,  miosis ,  and often ipsilateral hypohidrosis and conjunctival injection .
increase in size of the cisterna magna ,  one of three principal openings in the subarachnoid space between the arachnoid and pia mater ,  located between the cerebellum and the dorsal surface of the medulla oblongata .
heterotopia or neuronal heterotopia are macroscopic clusters of misplaced neurons  ( gray matter )  ,  most often situated along the ventricular walls or within the subcortical white matter .
unlocalized atrophy of the brain with decreased total brain matter volume and increased ventricular size .
a lesser degree of hair pigmentation than would otherwise be expected .
progressive loss of hair .
loss of all hair on the entire body .
circumscribed depigmentation of the hair of the head or the eyelashes .
absence of hair in the anterior midline and / or parietal areas .
progressively reduced or lacking hair growth .
fragile ,  easily breakable hair ,  i .e . ,  with reduced tensile strength .
paralysis  ( complete loss of muscle function )  in the arm ,  leg ,  and in some cases the face on one side of the body .
inability to initiate changes in activity or movement and to perform ordinary volitional movements rapidly and easily .
a slow ,  continuous ,  involuntary writhing movement that prevents maintenance of a stable posture .
habitual flow of saliva out of the mouth .
arnold - chiari malformation consists of a downward displacement of the cerebellar tonsils and the medulla through the foramen magnum ,  sometimes causing hydrocephalus as a result of obstruction of csf outflow .
lack of physical coordination resulting in an abnormal tendency to drop items or bump into objects .
deterioration of the tissues of the lateral corticospinal tracts .
cephalgia ,  or pain sensed in various parts of the head ,  not confined to the area of distribution of any nerve .
an abnormal sensation of spinning while the body is actually stationary .
a resting tremor occurs when muscles are at rest and becomes less noticeable or disappears when the affected muscles are moved .
anencephaly is a developmental anomaly characterized by a fetus that has no calvarium ,  with a lack of most or all of the fetus' brain tissue .
a defect of development of the brain characterized by replacement of greater portions of the cerebral hemispheres and the corpus striatum by cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  and glial tissue .
excessive daytime sleepiness .
attacks of disabling daytime drowsiness and low alertness .
repeated episodes of headache with rapid onset ,  reaching a peak within minutes and of short duration  ( less than one hour )  with pain that is throbbing ,  pulsating ,  or bursting in quality .
loss of previously present motor  ( i .e . ,  movement )  abilities .
an anomaly of the vermis of cerebellum .
congenital absence of the vermis of cerebellum .
any structural abnormality of the caudate nucleus .
compression of the spinal cord in the cervical region ,  generally manifested by paresthesias and numbness ,  weakness ,  difficulty walking ,  abnormalities of coordination ,  and neck pain or stiffness .
moderate mental retardation is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  in the range of 35 - 49 .
a form of hydrocephalus characterized by enlarged cerebral ventricles and normal cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  pressure upon lumbar puncture .
a tremor present when the limbs are active ,  either when outstretched in a certain position or throughout a voluntary movement .
an unintentional ,  oscillating to - and - fro muscle movement affecting head movement .
a type of focal - onset seizure in which awareness is preserved .
this term describes abnormality of the white matter of the cerebrum resulting from damage to the myelin sheaths of nerve cells .
abnormality observed by electroencephalogram  ( eeg )  ,  which is used to record of the brain's spontaneous electrical activity from multiple electrodes placed on the scalp .
an impairment of memory as manifested by a reduced ability to remember things such as dates and names ,  and increased forgetfulness .
reduced ability to walk  ( ambulate )  .
a focal dystonia of the fingers ,  hand ,  and / or forearm that appears when the affected person attempts to do a task that requires fine motor movements such as writing or playing a musical instrument .
an abnormality of sleep including such phenomena as 1 )  insomnia / hypersomnia ,  2 )  non - restorative sleep ,  3 )  sleep schedule disorder ,  4 )  excessive daytime somnolence ,  5 )  sleep apnea ,  and 6 )  restlessness .
loss of previously present mental and motor abilities .
a type of gait  ( walking )  characterized by by dragging one's feet along or without lifting the feet fully from the ground .
an anomaly of the brainstem .
underdevelopment of the brainstem .
any structural anomaly of the lower motor neuron .
lack of observable abnormal electroencephalographic  ( eeg )  patterns in an individual with a history of seizures .
a febrile seizure is any type of seizure  ( most often a generalized tonic - clonic seizure )  occurring with fever  ( at least 38 degrees celsius )  but in the absence of central nervous system infection ,  severe metabolic disturbance or other alternative precipitant in children between the ages of 3 months and 6 years .
abnormally diminished motor activity .in contrast to paralysis ,  hypokinesia is not characterized by a lack of motor strength ,  but rather by a poverty of movement .
loss of developmental skills ,  as manifested by loss of developmental milestones .
an unintentional ,  oscillating to - and - fro muscle movement affecting the hand .
fasciculations are observed as small ,  local ,  involuntary muscle contractions  ( twitching )  visible under the skin .
an acquired language impairment of some or all of the abilities to produce or comprehend speech and to read or write .
focal impaired awareness seizure  ( or focal seizure with impaired or lost awareness )  is a type of focal - onset seizure characterized by some degree  ( which may be partial )  of impairment of the person's awareness of themselves or their surroundings at any point during the seizure .
weakness or partial paralysis in the lower limbs .
if the two laminae of the septum pellucidum are not fused then a fluid - filled space or cavum is present .
the presence of complexes of repetitive spikes and waves in eeg .
a type of rigidity in which a muscle responds with cogwheellike jerks to the use of constant force in bending the limb  ( i .e . ,  it gives way in little ,  repeated jerks when the muscle is passively stretched )  .
no consensus exists on what a stroke - like episode is ,  but these episodes can be functionally defined as a new neurological deficit ,  occurring with or without the context of seizures ,  which last longer than 24 hours .
the patient stands with the feet placed together and balance and is asked to close his or her eyes .
increased width of the superior cerebellar peduncle .
a type of dysmetria involving the limbs .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the brain .
stenosis of the cerebral aqueduct  ( also known as the mesencephalic duct ,  aqueductus mesencephali ,  or aqueduct of sylvius )  ,  which connects the third cerebral ventricle in the diencephalon to the fourth ventricle ,  which is between the pons and cerebellum .
myokymia consists of involuntary ,  fine ,  continuous ,  undulating contractions that spread across the affected striated muscle .
incomplete closure of the embryonic neural tube ,  whereby some vertebral arches remain unfused and open .
leukodystrophy refers to deterioration of white matter of the brain resulting from degeneration of myelin sheaths in the cns .
cerebral cysts ,  usually located in the wall of the caudate nucleus or in the caudothalamic groove .
an abnormality of the midbrain ,  which has as its parts the tectum ,  cerebral peduncle ,  midbrain tegmentum and cerebral aqueduct .
an abnormal appearance of the midbrain in axial magnetic resonance imaging in which the elongated superior cerebellar peduncles give the midbrain an appearance reminiscent of a molar or wisdom tooth .
difficulty to maintain correct position of the head while standing or sitting .
a defect in the motor ability that enables speech .
impairment of expressive language and relative preservation of receptive language abilities .
protrusion of the meninges through a defect of the vertebral column .
a herniation of meninges through a congenital bone defect in the skull in the occipital region .
a specific learning disability involving mathematics and arithmetic .
the presence of a hamartoma of the hypothalamus .
paralysis of all four limbs ,  and trunk of the body below the level of an associated injury to the spinal cord .
proliferation of astrocytes in the area of a lesion of the central nervous system .
any structural anomaly that affects the motor neuron .
a type of dystonia  ( abnormally increased muscular tone causing fixed abnormal postures )  that affects muscles of the limbs .
an abnormality of the globus pallidus .
the presence ,  on t2 - weighted magnetic resonance imaging ,  of markedly low signal intensity if the globus pallidus that surrounds a central region of high signal intensity in the anteromedial globus pallidus ,  producing an eye - of - the - tiger appearance .
reduced strength of the musculature of the distal extremities .
language impairment is a deficit in comprehension or production of language that includes reduced vocabulary ,  limited sentence structure or impairments in written or spoken communication .
a type of dysarthria related to bilateral damage of the upper motor neuron tracts of the pyramidal and extra -  pyramidal tracts .
reduced size of the cerebral cortex .
a delay in the acquisition of the ability to use language to communicate needs ,  wishes ,  or thoughts .
protrusion of the meninges and portions of the spinal cord through a defect of the vertebral column .
the primitive reflexes are a group of behavioural motor responses which are found in normal early development ,  are subsequently inhibited ,  but may be released from inhibition by cerebral ,  usually frontal ,  damage .
central nervous system dysfunction in association with liver failure and characterized clinically  ( depending on degree of severity )  by lethargy ,  confusion ,  nystagmus ,  decorticate posturing ,  spasticity ,  and bilateral babinski reflexes .
an involuntary and painless delay in the relaxation of skeletal muscle following contraction or electrical stimulation .
motor hyperactivity with excessive movement of muscles of the body as a whole .
a clonal  ( malignant )  hematopoietic disorder with an acute onset ,  affecting the bone marrow and the peripheral blood .
increased concentration of lactate in the cerebrospinal fluid .
spasticity of one or more muscles innervated by the facial nerve .
abnormality of the corticospinal tract ,  which is the chief element of the pyramidal system  ( the principle motor tract )  and is the only direct connection between the cerebrum and the spinal cord .
a functional anomaly of the upper motor neuron .
abnormality of rem sleep .phases of rem sleep are characterized by desynchronized eeg patterns ,  increases in heart rate and blood pressure ,  sympathetic activation ,  and a profound loss of muscle tonus except for the eye and middle - ear muscles .
a decrease in the ability to perceive vibration .
an abnormality of the cerebral white matter .
deposition of calcium salts within small blood vessels of the brain .
diffuse unlocalised atrophy affecting the cerebrum .
a type of holoprosencephaly in which the left and right frontal and parietal lobes are fused and the interhemispheric fissure is only present posteriorly .
a developmental structural anomaly of the stalk - like part of the brain that comprises the midbrain  ( aka mesencephalon )  ,  the pons  ( aka pons varolii )  ,  and the medulla oblongata ,  and connects the cerebral hemispheres with the cervical spinal cord .
spastic paralysis affecting all four limbs .
a degenerative disease of the brain characterized by the insidious onset of dementia .
the presence of calcium deposition within brain structures .
weakness of the hip girdle and upper thigh muscles ,  for instance in myopathies ,  leads to an instability of the pelvis on standing and walking .
an increase of the pressure inside the cranium  ( skull )  and thereby in the brain tissue and cerebrospinal fluid .
hypsarrhythmia is abnormal interictal high amplitude waves and a background of irregular spikes .
inability to elicit tendon reflexes in the lower limbs .
a sudden and transient episode of bilateral loss of muscle tone ,  often triggered by emotions .
impaired ability to repeat non - word sounds .
electron - dense granules within double membrane - bound cytoplasmic vacuoles .
a type of dystonia that affects the midline muscles ,  i .e . ,  the chest ,  abdominal ,  and back muscles .
involuntary flexion or extension of the arms and legs .
an abnormality of the gyri  ( i .e . ,  the ridges )  of the cerebral cortex of the brain .
an abnormality of the cerebral cortex .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the cerebral cortex .
incapability to ambulate .
neuronal degeneration in the cerebellum ,  pontine nuclei ,  and inferior olivary nucleus .
a form of torticollis in which the head is drawn back ,  either due to a permanent contractures of neck extensor muscles ,  or to a spasmodic contracture .
patchy loss of myelin from nerve fibers in the central nervous system .
parkinsonism is a clinical syndrome that is a feature of a number of different diseases ,  including parkinson disease itself ,  other neurodegenerative diseases such as progressive supranuclear palsy ,  and as a side - effect of some neuroleptic medications .
absence of facial hair .
developmental dysplasia of the hair .
increased height of the central portion of the eyebrow ,  forming a crescent ,  semicircular ,  or inverted u shape .
absence of pubic hair .
underdevelopment of the nipple .
presence of more than two nipples .
congenital failure to develop ,  and absence of ,  the nipple .
placement of the nipples at a lower than normal location .
presence of a thickened ,  fibrotic pericardium that forms a non - compliant shell around the heart ,  and resulting from chronic inflammation of the pericardium .
an abnormality of the intestinal rotation and fixation that normally occurs during the development of the gut .
greater than normal amounts of fat in the feces .
a disorder of esophageal motility characterized by the inability of the lower esophageal sphincter to relax during swallowing and by inadequate or lacking peristalsis in the lower half of the body of the esophagus .
paroxysmal ,  recurrent episodes of vomiting .
the passage of fresh  ( red )  blood per anus ,  usually in or with stools .
an intermittent form of abdominal pain .
an abnormal connection  ( fistula )  between the esophagus and the trachea .
an abnormality of the intestine in which part of the intestine invaginates  ( telescopes )  into another part of the intestine .
an abnormality of the stomach .
decreased strength of the muscle layer of stomach ,  which leads to a decreased ability to empty the contents of the stomach despite the absence of obstruction .
abnormal intestinal contractions ,  such as spasms and intestinal paralysis ,  related to the loss of the ability of the gut to coordinate muscular activity because of endogenous or exogenous causes .
abnormal twisting of a portion of intestine around itself or around a stalk of mesentery tissue .
a form of chronic gastritis associated with atrophic gastric mucous membrane .
colitis refers to an inflammation of the colon and is often used to describe an inflammation of the large intestine  ( colon ,  cecum and rectum )  .
bleeding from the intestines .
an abnormality of the peritoneum .
inflammation of the peritoneum .
vomiting that ejects the gastric contents with great force .
an erosion of the mucous membrane in a portion of the duodenum .
a neurological anomaly with gross overeating associated with an abnormally strong desire or need to eat .
an ulcer ,  that is ,  an erosion of an area of the gastric mucous membrane .
angiectasia of lymph vessels  ( i .e . ,  dilatation of lymphatic vessels )  in the intestines .
hypoplasia of the pancreas .
acute obstruction of the intestines preventing passage of the contents of the intestines .
an abnormality of the vasculature .
a head tremor of moderate speed  ( 3 to 4 hz )  in the anterior - posterior direction .
reduced intensity of muscle tendon reflexes in the lower limbs .
telangiectasia affecting the gastrointestinal tract .
the presence of cell death  ( necrosis )  affecting the liver .
involuntary fecal soiling in adults and children who have usually already been toilet trained .
celiac disease  ( cd )  is an autoimmune condition affecting the small intestine ,  triggered by the ingestion of gluten ,  the protein fraction of wheat ,  barley ,  and rye .
the presence of fibrosis of that part of the liver with congenital onset .
progressive destruction of the small - to - medium bile ducts of the intrahepatic biliary tree ,  which leads to progressive cholestasis and often end - stage liver disease .
a type of hepatic necrosis that is concentrated around the necrosis of hepatocytes localized around the intrahepatic branch of portal vein .
low blood pressure ,  vascular hypotension .
an abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the aortic root .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of an atery ,  vein or the heart .
enlarged and tortuous veins .
a condition characterized by patchy atheromas or atherosclerotic plaques which develop in the walls of medium - sized and large arteries and can lead to arterial stenosis with reduced or blocked blood flow .
an overriding aorta is a congenital heart defect where the aorta is positioned directly over a ventricular septal defect ,  instead of over the left ventricle .
an anomaly of vein .
formation of a blot clot in a deep vein .
elongated and tortuous mesenteric veins ,  which comprise the inferior mesenteric vein and the superior mesenteric vein .
the aortic arch crosses the right mainstem bronchus and not the left mainstem bronchus ,  but does not result in the creation of a vascular ring .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormality of the absorption of fat from the gastrointestinal tract .
inflammation of blood vessel .
sclerosis  ( hardening )  of the arteries with increased thickness of the wall of arteries as well as increased stiffness and a loss of elasticity .
in type iv atherosclerotic lesions a dense accumulation of extracellular lipid occupies an extensive but well - defined region of the intima .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in an artery that originates from he abdominal aorta .
inflammation of a superficial vein associated with venous thrombosis  ( blood clot formation within the vein )  .
budd - chiari syndrome  ( bcs )  is caused by obstruction of hepatic venous outflow at any level from the small hepatic veins to the junction of the inferior vena cava  ( ivc )  with the right atrium ,  1 and occurs in 1 / 100 , 000 of the general population worldwide .
a type of hypertension associated with pheochromocytoma .
respiratory difficulty as newborn .
an abnormality of the bony pelvic girdle ,  which is a ring of bones connecting the vertebral column to the femurs .
the presence of extra bones within a cranial suture .
aortic dissection refers to a tear in the intimal layer of the aorta causing a separation between the intima and the medial layers of the aorta .
the presence of an abnormal shape of the calvaria  ( skullcap )  ,  that is ,  of that part of the skull that is made up of the superior portions of the frontal bone ,  occipital bone ,  and parietal bones and covers the cranial cavity that contains the brain .
the presence of an abnormal lateral curvature of the spine .
a general term describing features characterized by abnormal development of bones and connective tissues .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to bone .
a disorder of bone growth affecting the vertebrae and the ends of the long bones  ( epiphyses )  .
an abnormally increased tendency to fractures of bones caused by an abnormal reduction in bone strength that is generally associated with an increased risk of fracture .
an increased tendency to fractures following trauma ,  with fractures occurring without pain .
an organ or organ - system abnormality that consists of uncontrolled autonomous cell - proliferation which can occur in any part of the body as a benign or malignant neoplasm  ( tumour )  .
a cancer originating in lymphocytes and presenting as a solid tumor of lymhpoid cells .
pheochromocytomas  ( also known as chromaffin tumors )  produce ,  store ,  and secrete catecholamines .
the presence of a nephroblastoma ,  which is a neoplasm of the kidney that primarily affects children .
a carotid body tumor  ( also called paraganglionoma or chemodectoma )  is a tumor found in the upper neck at the branching of the carotid artery .
a malignant bone tumor that usually develops during adolescence and usually affects the long bones including the tibia ,  femur ,  and humerus .
the presence of a basal cell carcinoma of the skin .
coxa valga is a deformity of the hip in which the angle between the femoral shaft and the femoral neck is increased compared to age - adjusted values  ( about 150 degrees in newborns gradually reducing to 120 - 130 degrees in adults )  .
trilobar skull configuration when viewed from the front or behind .
an abnormal narrowing of the foramen magnum .
abnormality of the sella turcica ,  a saddle - shaped depression in the sphenoid bone at the base of the human skull .
a deformity of the sella turcica whereby the sella extends further anterior than normal such that the anterior clinoid process appears to overhang it ,  giving the appearance of the letter j on imaging of the skull .
increased width of the skull .
abnormality of the calvaria ,  which is the roof of the skull formed by the frontal bone ,  parietal bones ,  and occipital bone .
the presence of an abnormally thick calvaria .
an abnormality of the frontal sinus ,  one of the mucosa - lined ,  normally air - filled paranasal sinuses of the bones of the skull .
aplasia of frontal sinus .
aplasia of the paranasal sinuses .
an abnormal enlargement of the sella turcica .
a developmental malformation of the occipital bone and upper end of the cervical spine ,  in which the latter appears to have pushed the floor of the occipital bone upward such that there is an abnormal flattening of the skull base .
an abnormality of the base of the skull ,  which forms the floor of the cranial cavity and separates the brain from other facial structures .
increased bone density of the skull base without significant changes in bony contour .
any abnormality of the parietal bone of the skull .
the presence of symmetrical and circular openings  ( foramina )  in the parietal bone ranging in size from a few millimeters to several centimeters wide .
any abnormality of the foramen magnum .
an abnormal increase in the size of the foramen magnum .
an abnormality of the process of ossification of the skull .
the presence of a high and narrow palate .
the presence of small  ( ca .
unusual prominence of the median palatal raphe ,  which is the ridge formed by the fusion of the two plates of the skull that form the hard palate .
a depression located at an oral commissure .
increased depth of the median tongue furrow .
a morphological abnormality of the mouth in which the angle of the mouth is downturned .
an abnormality of the immune system .
enlargment  ( swelling )  of a lymph node .
increased susceptibility to bacterial infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of bacterial infection .
increased susceptibility to infections .
decreased levels of immunoglobulin a  ( iga )  .
failure of the immune system to protect the body adequately from infection ,  due to the absence or insufficiency of some component process or substance .
an increased susceptibility to abscess formation ,  as manifested by a medical history of recurrent abscesses .
an absence of the phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ,  that occurs in neutrophils ,  monocytes ,  and macrophages shortly after phagocytosing material .
an increased susceptibility to aspergillus infections ,  as manifested by a history of recurrent episodes of aspergillus infections .
a chronic ,  relapsing ,  inflammatory ,  and often febrile multisystemic disorder of connective tissue ,  characterized principally by involvement of the skin ,  joints ,  kidneys ,  and serosal membranes .
increased susceptibility to staphylococcus aureus infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of staphylococcus aureus infection .
recurrent or persistent superficial candida infections of the skin ,  mucous membranes ,  and nails .
lymphadenopathy  ( enlargement of lymph nodes )  owing to hyperplasia of follicular  ( germinal )  centers .
a chronic form of lymphadenopathy that is not related to infection .
a reduction in the rate of apoptosis in lymphocytes .
underdevelopment of the lymph nodes .
a lymph node abnormality .
underdevelopment of frontal sinus .
increased susceptibility to infections with escherichia coli ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of infection with this agent .
increased susceptibility to serratia marcescens infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of serratia marcescens infection .
increased susceptibility to klebsiella infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of klebsiella infection .
increased susceptibility to enteroviral infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of enteroviral infection .
cleft lip and cleft palate affecting both sides of the face .
a thickened white patch on the oral mucosa that cannot be rubbed off .
rickets is divided into two major categories including calcipenic and phosphopenic .
osteomalacia is a general term for bone weakness owing to a defect in mineralization of the protein framework known as osteoid .
a decreased rate of skeletal maturation .
an abnormal curvature of the spine in both a coronal  ( lateral )  and sagittal  ( back - to - front )  plane .
abnormal thinning of the cortical region of bones .
osteomyelitis is an inflammatory process accompanied by bone destruction and caused by an infecting microorganism .
a pathologic fracture occurs when a bone breaks in an area that is weakened secondarily to another disease process such as tumor ,  infection ,  and certain inherited bone disorders .
the repeated occurrence of bone fractures  ( implying an abnormally increased tendency for fracture )  .
degeneration  ( wear and tear )  of articular cartilage ,  i .e . ,  of the joint surface .
joint hypermobility  ( ability of a joint to move beyond its normal range of motion )  affecting many or all joints of the body .
presence of more than one exostosis .
any morphological abnormality of cartilage .
a structural anomaly of the trachea .
weakness or softness of the cartilage in the walls of the bronchial tubes .
increased resistance to the passage of air in the upper airway .
an increased susceptibility to lower respiratory tract infections as manifested by a history of recurrent lower respiratory tract infections .
weakness of the cartilage in the trachea and the bronchi ,  resulting in a floppy  ( non - rigid )  airway .
calcification  ( abnormal deposits of calcium )  in the tracheal tissues .
an increased susceptibility to upper respiratory tract infections as manifested by a history of recurrent upper respiratory tract infections  ( running ears  -  otitis ,  sinusitis ,  pharyngitis ,  tonsillitis )  .
very rapid breathing .
a reduction in the amount of air transported into the pulmonary alveoli by breathing ,  leading to hypercapnia  ( increase in the partial pressure of carbon dioxide )  .
an abnormal reduction on the vital capacity ,  which is defined as the total lung capacity  ( volume of air in the lungs at maximal inflation )  less the residual volume  ( i .e . ,  volume of air in the lungs following maximal exhalation )  of the lung .
an anomaly of the rhythm or depth of breathing .
osteolysis refers to the destruction of bone through bone resorption with removal or loss of calcium .
one or more flexion contractures  ( a bent joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively )  that are present at birth .
multiple congenital contractures in different body areas .
exaggerated anterior convexity of the thoracic vertebral column .
coxa vara includes all forms of decrease of the femoral neck shaft angle  ( the angle between the neck and the shaft of the femur )  to less than 120 degrees .
any abnormality of bones of the arms or legs .
an abnormality of the leg .
an abnormality of the knee joint or surrounding structures .
an abnormally increased extension of the knee joint ,  so that the knee can bend backwards .
an abnormality of the arm .
an abnormality of the radius .
any anomaly of the structure of the femur .
the presence of a tail - like skin appendage located adjacent to the sacrum .
an anomalous radiographic appearance of the developing pelvis ,  in which the greater ischiadic noth  ( incisura ischiadica major )  is shallow and the pelvis takes on the appearance said to resemble a halberd  ( a weapon especially of the 15th and 16th centuries consisting typically of a battle - ax and pike mounted on a handle )  .
displacement of the femur from its normal location in the hip joint .
joint pain .
an abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  pattern of calcifications in soft tissues within or surrounding bones  ( as observed on radiographs )  .
disseminated multifocal hemangiomatous or lymphangiomatous lesions of the skeleton .
inspiration of a foreign object into the airway .
eversion of the posterior bladder wall through the congenitally absent lower anterior abdominal wall and anterior bladder wall .
an increased susceptibility to bronchitis as manifested by a history of recurrent bronchitis .
abnormal function of a sphincter of the urinary bladder .
inflammation of a lymph node .
increased susceptibility to fungal infections ,  as manifested by multiple episodes of fungal infection .
increased susceptibility to infections with burkholderia cepacia ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of infection with this agent .
an abnormality of t cells .
a structural abnormality of b cells .
impaired production of memory cells ,  the b cells that persist for years or an entire lifetime and which confer rapid and enhanced response to secondary challenge .
the presence of normal overall immunoglobulin levels with deficiency of specific immunoglobulins directed against bacterial polysaccharides .
absence of germinal centers in lymph nodes .
an abnormally decreased level of immunoglobulin m  ( igm )  in blood .
an abnormally increased proportion of cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative  ( double negative or dn )  alpha - beta regulatory t cells  ( tregs )  as compared to total number of t cells .
an elevated proportion of t cells that express human leukocyte antigen  ( hla )  - dr . hla - dr is an mhc class ii cell surface receptor that presents antigens  ( peptides of at least 9 amino acids )  ,  thereby constituting a ligand for the t - cell receptor .
the legs angle inward ,  such that the knees are close together and the ankles far apart .
the presence of a meningioma ,  i .e . ,  a benign tumor originating from the dura mater or arachnoid mater .
the presence of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin .
the presence of a melanoma ,  a malignant cancer originating from pigment producing melanocytes .
the presence of a carcinoma of the urinary bladder .
clonal hematopoietic stem cell disorders characterized by dysplasia  ( ineffective production )  in one or more hematopoietic cell lineages ,  leading to anemia and cytopenia .
the presence of a medullary carcinoma of the thyroid gland .
underdevelopment of the ilium ala .
an abnormality of the ilium ,  the largest and uppermost bone of the pelvis .
decreased width of the wing  ( or ala )  of the ilium  ( which is the large expanded portion which bounds the greater pelvis laterally )  .
widening of the ilium ala ,  that is of the wing of the ilium ,  combined with external rotation ,  leading to a flared appearance of the iliac wing .
a condition characterized by obstruction of the airway and by pauses in breathing during sleep occurring many times during the night .
apnea resulting from depression of the respiratory centers in the medulla oblongata .
recurrent episodes of apnea that are precipitated by factors such as illness ,  fatigue ,  or stress .
episodes of very rapid breathing .
a severe form of respiratory insufficiency characterized by inadequate gas exchange such that the levels of oxygen or carbon dioxide cannot be maintained within normal limits .
abnormally increased variability of the size of the vertebral bodies .
recurrent bouts of sudden ,  severe apnea that may be life - threatening .
hyperventilation refers to an increased pulmonary ventilation rate that is faster than necessary for the exchange of gases .
a kind of neoplasm of the liver that originates from immature liver precursor cells and macroscopically is composed of tissue resembling fetal or mature liver cells or bile ducts .
a rapidly growing embryonic tumor arising in the posterior part of the cerebellar vermis and neuroepithelial roof of the fourth ventricle in children .
a tumor that develops in the retrostyloid compartment of the parapharyngeal space ,  arising from an island of paraganglion tissue derived from the neural crest that is located on the vagus nerve .
the presence of an ependymoma of the central nervous system .
the presence of a carcinoma of the thyroid gland .
the presence of a leiomyosarcoma of the uterus .
a benign epithelial tumor derived from intrinsic cells of the adenohypophysis .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the pancreas .
the presence of a papillary adenocarcinoma of the thyroid gland .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the liver .
a benign tumor of the parathyroid gland that can cause hyperparathyroidism .
an abnormally decreased potassium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally decreased sodium concentration in the blood .
an increased amount of bilirubin in the blood .
an abnormally increased phosphate concentration in the blood .
microscopic hematuria detected by dipstick or microscopic examination of the urine .
an increased concentration of all types of amino acid in the urine .
elevations of the levels of sgot and sgpt in the serum .
increased concentration of methylmalonic acid in the blood .
presence of myoglobin in the urine .
an increased concentration of chloride in the urine .
an abnormality of chromosome segregation .
an abnormally decreased magnesium concentration in the blood .
an abnormally increased magnesium concentration in the blood .
high levels of ketone bodies in the urine .
an abnormal reduction in the concentration of corticotropin ,  also known as adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  ,  in the blood .
an abnormality of the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
increased concentration of protein in the cerebrospinal fluid .
the presence in the serum of an autoantibody directed against the fc portion of igg .
overproduction of thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  by the anterior pituitary gland .
an abnormal functionality of the thyroid gland .
an increased concentration of histidine in the urine .
reduced sensitivity of end organs to thyroid hormone characterized by elevated serum levels of free thyroid hormone with nonsuppressed thyroid stimulating hormone .
a reduction in aldehyde oxidase level .
ventral hernia refers to a condition in which abdominal contents protrude through a weakened portion of the abdominal wall .
an abnormal reduction in sensation in the distal portions of the extremities .
absence of one half of the vertebral body .
an abnormal accentuation of the inward curvature of the spine in the lumbar region .
over curvature of the thoracic region ,  leading to a round back or if sever to a hump .
decreased height of the intervertebral disk .
exaggerated convexity of the cervical vertebral column ,  causing the cervical spine to bow outwards and take on a rounded appearance .
a developmental defect leading to the union of two adjacent vertebrae .
a congenital anomaly characterized by a joining  ( fusion )  of two or more cervical vertebral bodies with one another .
congenital absence of a part of the vermis of cerebellum .
a granulomatous inflammation leading to multiple granuloma formation ,  which is a specific type of inflammation .
altered immune function characterized by lymphoid proliferation ,  immune activation ,  and excessive autoreactivity often leading to autoimmune / inflammatory complications .
an impairment of the class - switch recombination process that normally leads b lymphocytes to produce igg ,  iga ,  or ige .
the occurrence of an immune reaction against the organism's own cells or tissues .
selective deficiency of one or more ,  but not all ,  classes of immunoglobulins .
delay in cutaneous immune reaction to specific antigens mediated not by antibodies but by cells .
inability to react to a delayed hypersensitivity skin test .
abnormal positioning in which the elbows are turned out .
a positional abnormality marked by outward bowing of the legs in which the knees stay wide apart when a person stands with the feet and ankles together .
absence of the fingerlike protrusive ,  actin - dependent structures found on the surface of peripheral blood lymphocytes .
decreased ability to react to a delayed hypersensitivity skin test .
an abnormality of the lower arm .
an abnormal osseous union  ( fusion )  between the radius and the ulna .
absence or underdevelopment of tissue in the central nervous system .
a bending or abnormal curvature affecting a long bone of the leg .
bowing  ( abnormal curvature )  of the femur .
an abnormality of the calf ,  i .e .
a bending or abnormal curvature of the tibia .
the presence of abnormally small extremities .
underdevelopment of the radius .
a bending or abnormal curvature of the radius .
a chronic loss of elbow joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevent normal movement of the joints of the elbow .
absence of the fibula .
an anomaly of the calf bone  ( fibula )  ,  one of the two bones of the calf .
abnormality of the tibia  ( shinbone )  .
an abnormality of the ulna bone of the forearm .
the kneecap normally is located within the groove termed trochlea on the distal femur and can slide up and down in it .
the presence of a carcinoma of the breast .
a benign neoplasm that usually arises from the sympathetic trunk in the mediastinum ,  representing a tumor of the sympathetic nerve fibers arising from neural crest cells .
neuroblastoma is a solid tumor that originate in neural crest cells of the sympathetic nervous system .
prolongation of the time taken for a standardized skin cut of fixed depth and length to stop bleeding .
abnormality originating in one or more muscles ,  i .e . ,  of the set of muscles of body .
a morphological abnormality of epiphyses whereby they are abnormally outwardly curving  ( protuberant )  .
the presence of a splayed  ( i .e . , flared )  metaphyseal segment of one or more long bones .
abnormal widening of the metaphyseal regions of long bones .
abnormality of the wrist ,  the structure connecting the hand and the forearm .
metaphyseal cupping refers to an inward bulging of the metaphyseal profile giving the metaphysis a cup - like appearance .
underdevelopment of the ulna .
curvature of the shafts of the long bones due to multiple fractures .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of the metaphyses .
one or more abnormally short long bone .
shortening of the middle parts of the limbs  ( forearm and lower leg )  in relation to the upper and terminal segments .
bending of the diaphysis  ( shaft )  of the ulna .
an elevation in bone density in one or more diaphyses .
increase in size of one or more joints .
underdevelopment of the fibula .
an abnormal osseous union  ( fusion )  between the radius and the humerus .
dislocation of the distal humerus out of the elbow joint ,  where the radius ,  ulna ,  and humerus meet .
an abnormality of the shoulder ,  which is defined as the structures surrounding the shoulder joint where the humerus attaches to the scapula .
chronic reduction in active and passive mobility of the shoulder joint due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevents normal movement .
abnormality of the patella  ( knee cap )  .
partial dislocation of the head of the radius .
abnormal increase in size of one or more metaphyses .
amelia of all four limbs .
an abnormality of the humerus  ( i .e . ,  upper arm bone )  .
underdevelopment of the patella .
an anomaly related to partial closure ,  or failure of development of the ulnar side of the distal radial growth plate ,  which results in an arrest of epiphyseal growth of the medial and volar portions of the distal radius .
abnormal flatness  ( decreased height )  of epiphyses .
an abnormally increased calcium concentration in the blood .
reduction in the concentration of albumin in the blood .
an increased concentration of glucose in the blood .
a decreased concentration of protein in the blood .
an increased concentration of glucose in the urine .
an elevated lipid concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of 4 - hydroxy - l - proline in the urine .
an increased concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
a dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint .
an increased tendency to fractures of the long bones  ( mainly ,  the femur ,  tibia ,  fibula ,  humerus ,  radius ,  and ulna )  .
disproportionately long fibulae .
small hands and feet .
underdevelopment of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
trophic changes occurring in a limb .
limitation of the extension of the hip ,  i .e . ,  decreased ability to straighten the hip joint and thereby increase the angle between torso and thigh ;  moving the thigh or top of the pelvis backward .
an abnormal shortening of the femur .
relatively increased growth of the fibula compared to that of the tibia .
reduced diameter of a long bone .
an abnormal increase in the carrying angle ,  which is the angle he long axis of the extended forearm as it lies lateral to the long axis of the arm .
an abnormality of compact bone  ( also known as cortical bone )  ,  which forms the dense surface of bones .
the presence of multiple protuberances  ( bulges ,  or knobs )  at the ends of the long bones .
loss of bone mass occurring beneath the periosteum  ( the periosteum is the connective - tissue membrane that surrounds all bones except at the articular surfaces )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of cholesterol in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of glycine in the urine .
an increased excretion of phosphates in the urine .
an abnormality of the composition of urine or the levels of its components .
abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of a monoatomic ion .
the presence of an abnormal decrease or increase of one or more amino acids in the blood circulation .
an abnormally decreased chloride concentration in the blood .
abnormal rhythm of the heart .
an abnormality detectable by sonography of the heart  ( echocardiography )  .
an abnormal concentration of a hormone in the blood .
overproduction of the hormone of cortisol by the adrenal cortex ,  resulting in a characteristic combination of clinical symptoms termed cushing syndrome ,  with truncal obesity ,  a round ,  full face ,  striae atrophicae and acne ,  muscle weakness ,  and other features .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a lipid in the blood circulation .
a contrqacture  ( chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin )  that prevent normal movement of one or more joints of the limbs .
an increased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
reduced activity of coagulation factor viii .
excretion in urine of proteins of a size smaller than albumin  ( molecular weight 69 kd )  .
an abnormally decreased calcium concentration in the urine .
an abnormal buildup of lactic acid in the body ,  leading to acidification of the blood and other bodily fluids .
an abnormality of the myelination of motor and sensory peripheral nerves .
an increased concentration of cystine in the urine .
an abnormality of the spinocerebellar tracts ,  a set of axonal fibers originating in the spinal cord and terminating in the ipsilateral cerebellum .
an abnormality of the conduction of electrical impulses by peripheral  ( motor or sensory )  nerves .
an increased concentration of proline in the urine .
an increased amount of nitrogen in the form of urea in the blood .
a reduction in the circulating levels of all the major classes of immunoglobulin .
an elevated concentration of low - density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
a increased concentration of serotonin in the blood .
decreased concentration of adenosylcobalamin .adenosylcobalamin is one of the active forms of vitamin b12 .
an decreased concentration of cholesterol in the blood .
an abnormally high level of uric acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of glutaric acid in the urine .
an elevated urinary concentration of cystathionine .
an abnormal increased in the concentration of corticotropin ,  also known as adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  ,  in the blood .
abnormally increased serum levels of alkaline phosphatase activity .
an abnormally low urinary specific gravity ,  i .e . ,  reduced concentration of solutes in the urine .
increased excretion of oxalates in the urine .
glycosylated transferrin concentrations can be measured in serum as a marker of n - linked glycosylation fidelity .
increased concentration of pyruvic acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of 5 - aminolevulinic acid  ( chebi:17549 )  in the urine .
an abnormal increased concentration of parathyroid hormone .
increased concentration of taurine in the urine .
an increased concentration of carnosine in the urine .
an increased level of a dibasic amino acid in the urine .
an abnormality of the acetabulum ,  i .e . ,  the acetabular part of hip bone ,  which together with the head of the femur forms the hip joint .
an anomaly of the the pubic bone ,  i .e . ,  of the ventral and anterior of the three principal components  ( publis ,  ilium ,  ischium )  of the hip bone .
underdevelopment of the pubis ,  which together with the ilium and the ischium ,  is one of the three bones that make up the hip bone .
an anomaly of the ischium ,  which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone .
underdevelopment of the ischium ,  which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone .
a shift from the normally round  ( convex )  appearance of the iliac wing towards a square - like appearance .
intrapelvic bulging of the medial acetabular wall .
flattening of the superior part of the acetabulum ,  which is a cup - shaped cavity at the base of the hipbone into which the ball - shaped head of the femur fits .
abnormally increased width of the pubic symphysis is the midline cartilaginous joint uniting the superior rami of the left and right pubic bones .
reduced ability to move the femur outward to the side .
the sacroiliac joint in the bony pelvis connects the sacrum and the ilium of the pelvis ,  which are joined by strong ligaments .
the presence of nipples that instead of pointing outward are retracted inwards .
underdevelopment of the breast .
distance from nasion to subnasale more than two standard deviations above the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently increased length from the nasal root to the nasal base .
the presence of a notch in the margin of the ala nasi .
it is characterized by one or more symptoms including sneezing ,  itching ,  nasal congestion ,  and rhinorrhea .
decreased superior - inferior length of the nasal bridge ,  which is the saddle - shaped area that includes the nasal root and the lateral aspects of the nose .
distance from nasion to subnasale more than two standard deviations below the mean ,  or alternatively ,  an apparently decreased length from the nasal root to the nasal tip .
a disorder of muscle unrelated to impairment of innervation or neuromuscular junction .
an abnormal appearance of muscle fibers observed on muscle biopsy .
breakdown of muscle fibers that leads to the release of muscle fiber contents  ( myoglobin )  into the bloodstream .
the presence of skeletal muscular atrophy  ( which is also known as amyotrophy )  .
in the nbt test ,  neutrophils change the colorless compound nbt into a compound with a deep blue color .
the intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent storage material .
an intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment storage material in a curved pattern .
pathological deposition of calcium salts in one or more arteries .
an intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment storage material in a trabecular or fingerprint - like pattern .
a decreased rate of pyruvate carboxylase activity .
an abnormality of krebs cycle metabolism that is characterized by a decreased rate of methylmalonyl - coa mutase activity .
an abnormally increased overall level of immunoglobulin e in blood .
an increased concentration of dicarboxylic acid in the urine .
a diffuse form of amyloidosis .
an increased concentration of glutamine in the blood .
an increased concentration of orotic acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of ethylmalonic acid in the urine .
a type of chromosomal aberration characterised by reduced resistance of chromosomes to change or deterioration .
increased amount of chromosomal breaks in cultured blood lymphocytes or other cells induced by treatment with dna cross - linking agents such as diepoxybutane and mitomycin c .
decreased concentration of methylcobalamin .methylcobalamin is a form of vitamin b12 .
decreased activity of coagulation factor v .
an intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment storage material in a straight or rectilinear pattern .
an abnormally increased sodium concentration in the blood .
an increased concentration of tyrosine in the blood .
an decreased concentration of high - density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
a decreased concentration of carnitine in the blood .
an increased concentration of methionine in the blood .
an elevation of the level of the enzyme creatine kinase  ( also known as creatine phosphokinase ,  cpk ;  ec 2 .7 .3 .2 )  in the blood .
an abnormally increased level of immunoglobulin g in blood .
an increased concentration of phosphoethanolamine in the urine .
abnormally elevated level of the enzyme phosphoribosyl pyrophosphatesynthetase ,  which catalyzes the synthesis of pp - ribose - p from atp and ribose - 5 - phosphate .
underdevelopment of part or all of the external reproductive organs .
location of the urethral opening on the inferior aspect of the penis .
increased size of the ridge of tissue that extends along the midline of the scrotum .
aplasia of the vagina .
an abnormality of the process of dna repair ,  that is ,  of the process of restoring dna after damage .
an abnormality of the coagulation cascade ,  which is comprised of the contact activation pathway  ( also known as the intrinsic pathway )  and the tissue factor pathway  ( also known as the extrinsic pathway )  as well as cofactors and regulators .
an increased amount of creatinine in the blood .
an increased concentration of hydroxyproline in the blood .
an abnormally increased level of immunoglobulin a in blood .
the presence in serum of antibodies against smooth muscle .
a type of hyperbilirubinemia with neonatal onset .
an abnormal decrease in orotidine 5' - phosphate decarboxylase level .
a increased concentration of arginine in the urine .
distention of the abdomen .
abnormal increased size of the viscera of the abdomen .
an abnormality of the hip bone .
underdeveloped acetabulae .
reduced side to side width of the pelvis .
a benign growth the projects outward from the bone surface of the pelvis .
an abnormally squared appearance of the bony pelvis ,  a normally rounded or basin - shaped structure .
widening of the femoral head and neck .
abnormal raised concentration of ferritin ,  a ubiquitous intracellular protein that stores iron ,  in the blood .
abnormally reduced serum levels of alkaline phosphatase .
an increased concentration of cystathionine in the blood .
a functional anomaly of mitochondria .
a decreased concentration of leptin in the blood .
an increased concentration of threonine in the urine .
an increased concentration of lysine in the urine .
the closed form of spina bifida with incomplete closure of a vertebral body with intact overlying skin .
when viewed in lateral radiographs ,  vertebral bodies have a roughly rectangular configuration .
an irregular surface of the vertebral end plates ,  which are normally relatively smooth .
complete bilateral fractures of the pars interarticularis resulting in the anterior slippage of the vertebra .
spondylolysis is an osseous defect of the pars interarticularis ,  thought to be a developmental or acquired stress fracture secondary to chronic low - grade trauma .
congenital synostosis between two or more adjacent vertebrae  ( partial or complete fusion of adjacent vertabral bodies )  .
reduced ability to move the vertebral column with a resulting limitation of neck and trunk flexion .
abnormally increased cuvature  ( anterior concavity )  of the lumbar or cervical spine .
a partial dislocation of one or more intervertebral joints in the cervical vertebral column .
abnormality of the dens of the axis ,  which is also known as the odontoid process .
developmental hypoplasia of the dens of the axis .
abnormal morphology of vertebral body .
a butterfly vertebra  ( sagittal cleft vertebra or anterior rachischisis )  is a sagittal defect in the vertebral body caused by failure of fusion of the two lateral chondrification centers during embryogenesis .
any abnormality of the cervical vertebral column .
a partial dislocation of the atlantoaxial joints .
generalized weakness or decreased strength of the muscles ,  affecting both distal and proximal musculature .
weakness of the limb - girdle muscles  ( also known as the pelvic and shoulder girdles )  ,  that is ,  lack of strength of the muscles around the shoulders and the pelvis .
pain in muscle .
reduced strength of the axial musculature  ( i .e . ,  of the muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs )  .
any anomaly in the composite material or the layered arrangement of the bony skeleton .
an abnormal increase in catecholamine concentration in the blood .
an abnormality of the process of endochondral ossification ,  which is a type of replacement ossification in which bone tissue replaces cartilage .
the prothrombin consumption test measures the formation of intrinsic thromboplastin by determining the residual serum prothrombin after blood clotting is complete .
a type of megaloblastic anemia that improves upon administration of pyrimidine supplements such as uridylic acid and cytidylic acid .
the formation of bullae  ( blisters )  with cleavage in the lamina lucida layer of the skin .
reduced level of the enzyme glutathione synthetase ,  which catalyzes the last step in the synthesis of glutathione and a deficiency results in low levels of glutathione .
an increased concentration of noradrenaline in the urine .
normal peripheral blood lymphocytes ,  when stimulated by phytohemagglutinin  ( pha )  are cytotoxic for homologous and heterologous cells but not for autologous cells in monolayer culture .
an increased concentration of alanine in the blood .
a reduction in the rate of cholesterol esterification .
an decreased level of renin in the blood .
an increase in the number of chromosome sets per cell in bone marrow cells .
an abnormality of amino acid metabolism characterized by a decreased level of propionyl - coa carboxylase .
an increased concentration of threonine in the blood .
an increased concentration of an amino acid in the urine .
a reduction in the level of thymic horomone .
an increased concentration of cystine within cells .
decreased concentration of sulfate in the urine .
an increased concentration of tryptophan in the urine .
an increase in the amount of very - low - density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
a left - right reversal  ( or  \ "mirror reflection \ " )  of the anatomical location of the viscera of the abdomen .
joint pain affecting the hip .
an abnormality of the femoral neck  ( which is the process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft )  .
an abnormality of the femoral head .
an abnormal flattening of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
an abnormal enlargement of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
a narrowing of the sacrosciatic notch ,  i .e . ,  the deep indentation in the posterior border of the hip bone at the point of union of the ilium and ischium .
an abnormal gait pattern that arises from weakness of the pretibial and peroneal muscles due to a lower motor neuron lesion .
a pattern of simultaneous degeneration and regeneration of axons  ( see comment )  .
a loss of myelinated nerve fibers in the peripheral nervous system  ( in general ,  this finding can be observed on nerve biopsy )  .
repeated episodes of segmental demyelination and remyelination lead to the accumulation of supernumerary schwann cells around axons ,  which is referred to as onion bulb formation .
atrophic changes of axons of the peripheral nervous system .
a reduced number of large myelinated nerve fibers .
increased susceptibility to fatigue .
an axonal neuropathy of peripheral sensory nerves .
a phenomenon whereby patients are not able to stand up without the use of the hands owing to weakness of the proximal muscles of the lower limbs .
wasting of thenar muscles ,  which are located on palm of the hand at the base of the thumb .
sudden and involuntary contractions of one or more muscles .
dilated ,  glial - lined cavity in spinal cord .
any abnormality of the neuromuscular junction ,  which is the synapse between the motor end plate of a motor neuron and the skeletal muscle fibers .
a type of onion bulb formation prominently affecting the area of the basal lamina .
abnormal sensations such as tingling ,  pricking ,  or numbness of the skin with no apparent physical cause .
an abnormal reduction in the amplitude of the miniature endplate potentials ,  i .e .
a compound muscle action potential  ( cmap )  is a type of electromyography  ( emg )  .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of the proximal metaphysis of the femur .
an anomaly of the atlantoaxial joint ,  i .e . ,  of the joint between the first  ( atlas )  and second  ( axis )  cervical vertebrae .
partial dislocation of the atlantoaxial joint .
an abnormal narrowing of the spinal canal .
frontal schisis  ( cleft or cleavage )  of vertebral bodies .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the back .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the lower back .
an abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation during development .
reduced amount of myelin in the central nervous system resulting from defective myelinogenesis .
a type of decreased nerve conduction velocity that affects the motor neuron .
an abnormal prolongation of the miniature endplate potentials ,  i .e .
absence of the achilles reflex  ( also known as the ankle jerk reflex )  ,  which can normally be elicited by tapping the tendon is tapped while the foot is dorsiflexed .
a reduction in the size of nerve terminals .
evidence of chronic denervation on electromyography .
the presence of characteristic findings of denervation on electromyography  ( fibrillations ,  positive sharp waves ,  and giant motor unit potentials )  .
a reduction in the number of axons in the peripheral nervous system .
reduced speed of conduction of the action potential along a sensory nerve .
sudden and involuntary contractions of one or more muscles brought on by exposure to cold temperatures .
the presence of axonal regeneration following a previous axonal lesion .
an increased rate of premature chromosome condensation .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react against neutrophils .
the presence in the serum of autoantibodies directed against thrombocytes .
increased concentration of long - chain fatty acids in the blood circulation .
abnormal results of investigations using electromyography  ( emg )  .
the presence of abnormal electromyographic patterns indicative of myopathy ,  such as small - short polyphasic motor unit potentials .
a heterogeneous increase in igm immunoglobulins characterized by a diffuse band on serum electrophoresis .
undetectable serum immunoglobulin a level at a value  <  5 mg / dl  ( 0 .05 g / l )  .
excretion of peptides conjugated to sialic acid in the urine .
lipofuscin ,  a generic term applied to autofluorescent lipopigment ,  is a mixture of protein and lipid that accumulates in most aging cells ,  particularly those involved in high lipid turnover  ( e .g . ,  the adrenal medulla )  or phagocytosis of other cell types  ( e g . ,  the retinal pigment epithelium or rpe ;  macrophage )  .
abnormally increased movement at the junction between the first cervical  ( atlas )  and the second cervical  ( axis )  vertebrae as a result of either a bony or ligamentous anomaly .
an abnormality of one or more of the vertebrae .
defective structure and function of myelin sheaths .
paralysis of voluntary muscles means loss of contraction due to interruption of one or more motor pathways from the brain to the muscle fibers .
hyperexcitability of the neuromuscular system related to abnormally low level of calcium in the blood ,  resulting in carpopedal or generalized spasms .
a type of weakness that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
an abnormality of the primary sensation that is mediated by peripheral nerves  ( pain ,  temperature ,  touch ,  vibration ,  joint position )  .
an abnormality characterized by disruption of the normal functioning of peripheral axons .
a segmental pattern of demyelination and regeneration  ( remyelination )  affecting peripheral nerves .
electromyographic  ( emg )  findings characteristic of axonal neuropathy ,  with normal or slightly decreased nerve conduction velocities ,  normal or slightly prolonged distal latencies ,  but significantly reduced motor potentials and sensory amplitudes .
weakness of the muscles of the arms .
upturning of the big toe  ( and sometimes fanning of the other toes )  in response to stimulation of the sole of the foot .
an abnormally increased diphosphate ( 4 -  )  concentration in the urine .
an elevated concentration of a gonadotropin hormone  ( stimulating hormone or luteinizing hormone )  in the urine ,  consistent with the diagnosis of primary hypogonadism .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react against nuclei or nuclear components .
cellular accumulation of gm2 gangliosides .
an abnormally increased level of immunoglobulin m in blood .
a kind of short stature in which different regions of the body are shortened to differing extents .
a mild degree of short stature ,  more than  - 2 sd but not more than  - 3 sd from mean corrected for age and sex .
a kind of short stature in which different regions of the body are shortened to a comparable extent .
a severe degree of short stature ,  more than  - 4 sd from the mean corrected for age and sex .
a reduction of the ratio of renal calcium clearance to creatinine clearance to below 0 .01 .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs .
a reduction in methionine synthase activity .
formation of crystals owing to an increased concentration of orotic acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of prostaglandin in the urine .
an increase in the reabsorption of calcium by the renal tubulus that is not associated with increased parathormone levels .
an increased concentration of glutaric acid in the blood .
an increased concentration of ornithine in the urine .
decreased level of acetaldehyde dehydrogenase  ( adh )  .
an abnormal reduction in xanthine dehydrogenase level .
an increased amount of 3 - methylglutaconic acid in the urine .
an abnormality of krebs cycle metabolism that is characterized by a decreased rate of fumarate hydratase activity .
an abnormally low level of uric acid in the blood .
an increased level of iduronate - 2 - sulfatase activity in the blood .
an impairment in the rate and degree to which platelets aggregate after the addition of an agonist that stimulates platelet clumping .
excretion of glycosaminoglycan in the urine .
an increased concentration of pyruvate in the blood .
a functional motor deficit where individuals whose responses to the challenges of exercise fail to achieve levels considered normal for their age and gender .
the shoulder ,  or pectoral ,  girdle is composed of the clavicles and the scapulae .
an abnormally increased number of mitochondria in the cytoplasma adjacent to the sarcolemma  ( muscle cell membrane )  ,  whereby the mitochondria also possess an abnormal morphology .
any abnormality of the soft tissues ,  including both connective tissue  ( tendons ,  ligaments ,  fascia ,  fibrous tissues ,  and fat )  .
localized fluid retention and tissue swelling caused by a compromised lymphatic system ,  affecting mainly the legs .
reduced ability to climb stairs .
a condition in which muscles cannot be moved quickly without accompanying pain or spasm .
atrophy  ( wasting )  affecting primary type 2 muscle fibers .
fiber splitting or branching is a common finding in human and rat skeletal muscle pathology .
an abnormally high degree of muscle fiber size variation .
rhabdomyolysis induced by a viral infection .
the term dystrophy means abnormal growth .
an decreased concentration of low - density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
the presence of a folate sensitive fragile site at chromosome xq28 .
an increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate  ( esr )  .
an increased concentration of prostaglandin e2 in the blood .
a decreased level of glucose - 6 - phosphate isomerase .
absence of molybdenum cofactor ( 2 -  )  ,  a cofactor for enzymes including sulfite oxidase ,  xanthine oxidoreductase ,  and aldehyde oxidase .
a decreased concentration of citrulline in the blood .
increased concentration of total  ( conjugated and unconjugated )  bilirubin in the blood .
a positive response to the regitine blocking test consisting of a substantial reduction in blood pressure following administration of regitine ,  indicative of the presence of increased levels of epinephrine and norepinephrine in the circulation ,  which is seen in pheochromocytoma - associated hypertension .
an abnormally increased sodium concentration in the cytosol .
a phenotypic abnormality that is present at birth .
onset of disease manifestations in adulthood ,  defined here as at the age of 16 years or later .
a type of adult onset with onset of symptoms after the age of 60 years .
gradual ,  very slow onset of disease manifestations .
onset of signs or symptoms of disease between 28 days to one year of life .
a type of adult onset with onset of symptoms at the age of 40 to 60 years .
lack of urothione  ( the urinary metabolite of molybdenum cofactor )  in the urine .
increased concentration of 4 - hydroxyphenylacetic acid in the urine .
the presence of foam cells that contain lamellar inclusion bodies .
increased cytoplasmic staining of fibroblasts with toluidine blue .
if positive ,  the ferric chloride test indicates an increased concentration of phenols in the urine or blood .
the presence of circulating autoantibodies to phospholipids .
increased concentration of trimethylamine in the urine .
onset of signs or symptoms of disease between the age of 5 and 15 years .
onset of signs or symptoms of disease within the first 28 days of life .
congenital lack of development of the muscles ,  which are then replaced by a mixture of dense fat and fibrous tissue .
loss  ( disappearance )  of previously present subcutaneous fat tissue in arm or leg .
an abnormal reduction in 4 - hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase level .
an increased concentration of adrenaline in the urine .
the presence of free hemoglobin in the urine .
abnormal transferrin isoform profile consistent with a type i congenital disorder of glycosylation .
abnormally reduced sulfite oxidase level .
increased time to coagulation in the partial thromboplastin time  ( ptt )  test ,  a measure of the intrinsic and common coagulation pathways .
abnormally increased concentration of hydrogencarbonate in the urine .
a deficiency of the electron transfer flavoprotein - ubiquinone oxidoreductase .
an increased concentration of lactic acid in the urine .
abnormality of glycoside metabolism .
the presence of foam cells ,  a type of macrophage that localizes to fatty deposits on blood vessel walls ,  where they ingest low - density lipoproteins and become laden with lipids ,  giving them a foamy appearance .
recurring episodes of myoglobinuria ,  i .e . ,  of the presence of myoglobin in the urine .
metachromasia  ( also known as metachromacy )  is a characteristic color change which certain aniline dyes exhibit when bound to particular substances or when concentrated in solution .
an abnormal reduction in dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase  ( nadp +  )  level .
an abnormality of glycoprotein metabolism related to a decreased level of alpha - 1 , 6 - mannosylglycoprotein 2 - beta - n - acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity .
reduced level of the enzyme beta - glucosidase ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of glucosylceramide into ceramide and glucose .
a decreased concentration of methionine in the blood .
muscular atrophy affecting the muscles of the pelvis .
the age group in which disease manifestations appear .
an abnormality in which the nuclei of sarcomeres take on an abnormally central localization  ( or in which this feature is found in an increased proportion of muscle cells )  .
an abnormally reduced activity of the enzyme cytochrome c oxidase in muscle tissue .
the presence of multiple deletions of mitochondrial dna  ( mtdna )  .
reduced strength and weakness of the muscles of the arms and legs .
abnormal protrusion of the scapula away from the surface of the back .
muscular atrophy affecting muscles in the distal portions of the extremities .
lack of strength of the proximal musculature occurring late in the clinical course .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger .
muscular atrophy in the distribution of shoulder girdle and peroneal muscles .
generalized  ( diffuse ,  unlocalized )  amyotrophy  ( muscle atrophy )  affecting multiple muscles .
a lack of strength of the proximal muscles .
enlargement of the muscles of the calf due to their replacement by connective tissue or fat .
sudden and involuntary contractions of one or more muscles brought on by physical exertion .
hypertrophy  ( increase in size )  of muscle cells  ( as opposed to hyperplasia ,  which refers to an increase in the number of muscle cells )  .
abnormal cell death involving muscle fibers usually associated with break in ,  or absence of ,  muscle surface fiber membrane and resulting in irreversible damage to muscle fibers .
myofibrillar structural changes characterized by abnormal intracellular accumulation of the intermediate filament desmin and other proteins .
hypertrophy  ( increase in size )  of muscle cells in a generalized  ( not localized )  distribution .
weakness of the muscles involved in neck flexion  ( sternocleidomastoid ,  longus capitus ,  longus colli ,  and scalenus anterior )  .
amyotrophy affecting the muscles of the shoulder girdle .
spontaneous ,  repetitive electrical activity demonstrated by electromyography  ( emg )  .
weakness of the quadriceps muscle  ( that is ,  of the muscle fasciculus of quadriceps femoris )  .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the thighs .
the lysosomal - vacuolar pathway has a role in the controlled intracellular digestion of macromolecules such as protein complexes and organelles .
a type of myopathy associated with mitochondrial disease and characterized by findings on biopsy such as ragged red muscle fibers .
the occurrence of an unusually high amount of muscle pain following exercise .
myotonia that occurs after a period of rest and decreases with continuing exercise .
a mode of inheritance in which the severity of a disorder increases or the age of onset decreases as the disorder is passed from one generation to the next .
a type of genetic anticipation observed predominantly upon transmission from affected males .
cases of the disease in question occur without a previous family history ,  i .e . ,  as isolated cases without being transmitted from a parent and without other siblings being affected .
weakness of the muscles of the pelvic girdle  ( also known as the hip girdle )  ,  that is ,  lack of strength of the muscles around the pelvis .
an abnormal ,  increased fatiguability of the musculature .
recurrent episodes of muscle flaccidity ,  a type of paralysis in which a muscle becomes soft and yields to passive stretching .
the presence of abnormal muscle fiber size such that type 1 fibers are smaller than type 2 fibers .
a reduced amount of fat tissue in the lowest layer of the integument .
congenital underdevelopment of lymph vessels .
mechanical percussion  ( i .e . ,  striking a muscle with a reflex hammer )  leads to spreading waves of muscle contractions that begin proximally and spread laterally across the muscle .
formation of calcium deposits in any soft tissue .
a malformation of the uterus in which the uterus is present as a paired organ as a result of the failure of fusion of the mullerian ducts during embryogenesis .
bruxism is characterized by the grinding of the teeth including the clenching of the jaw and typically occur during sleep .
a nevus is a type of hamartoma that is a circumscribed stable malformation of the skin .
a skin abnormality characterized by redness and irritation ,  with thick ,  red skin that displays flaky ,  silver - white patches  ( scales )  .
episodes of muscle weakness .
multiple punctate calcifications in the dental pulp .
a degree of kidney failure severe enough to require dialysis or kidney transplantation for survival characterized by a severe reduction in glomerular filtration rate  ( less than 15 ml / min / 1 .73 m2 )  and other manifestations including increased serum creatinine .
pili  ( from latin pilus ,  hair )  torti  ( from latin tortus ,  twisted )  refers to short and brittle hairs that appear flattened and twisted when viewed through a microscope .
excessive production of saliva .
a body habitus that is tall ,  slim and underweight ,  with long legs and long arms  ( i .e . ,  arm span exceeds height by 5 cm or more )  .
decreased concentration of homovanillic acid  ( hva )  in the cerebrospinal fluid .
multiple small zones of sarcomeric disorganization and lack of oxidative activity  ( known as minicores )  in type 1 and type 2 muscle fibers .
multiple small zones of sarcomeric disorganization and lack of oxidative activity  ( known as minicores )  in muscle fibers .
developmental hypoplasia  ( shortening )  of middle phalanx of toe .
irregularity of the iliac crest ,  which is the superior border of the wing of the ilium .
muscular atrophy affecting the muscles of the limb girdle .
nemaline rods are abnormal bodies that can occur in skeletal muscle fibers .
an abnormal predominance of type i muscle fibers  ( in general ,  this feature can only be observed on muscle biopsy )  .
presence of abnormal vacuoles  ( membrane - bound organelles )  in the sarcolemma .
an abnormally reduced amount of adipose tissue in the thoracic cavity .
death within the first 28 days of life .
a variability of phenotypic features .
death in during childhood ,  defined here as between the ages of 2 and 10 years .
death of the fetus in utero after at least 20 weeks of gestation .
a variable severity of phenotypic features .
a situation in which mutation carriers do not show clinically evident phenotypic abnormalities .
a situation in which phenotypic abnormalities become evident with age .
a displacement or misalignment of the humerus with respect to the other bones of the should joint .
a partial dislocation of the shoulder joint .
formation of calcified tissue in the soft tissues surrounding the shoulder .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more long bones of the upper limbs .
the presence of a splayed  ( i .e . , flared )  metaphyseal segment of one or more long bones of the arm .
increased width  ( breadth )  of metaphyses of the arms .
an elevation in bone density in one or more diaphyses of the arms .
missing humerus bone associated with congenital failure of development .
clefting affecting the humerus .
a bending or abnormal curvature of the humerus .
presence of more than one exostosis originating in one or noth humerus bones .
destruction of an area of humerus bone due to a disease process ,  such as cancer .
reduction in diameter of the humerus .
an anomaly of the humeral epiphysis .
lack of formation of bone in the epiphysis of the humerus .
ossification of the humeral epiphysis at an earlier age than normal .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the humeral epiphysis .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the humeral epiphysis .
increased width of the humeral epiphysis .
increased width of the humeral epiphyseal growth plate .
fracture or fragmentation at the lateral portion of the metaphysis of a long bone .
flaring  ( increase of width with a splayed appearance )  of the humeral metaphysis .
an anomaly of the humeral diaphysis .
an abnormal irregularity of the cortical surface of the diaphysis  ( shaft )  of the humerus .
increased width of the humeral diaphysis .
an abnormal osseous union  ( fusion )  between the ulna and the humerus .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more long bones that are part of the elbow .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of the metaphysis at the distal end of the humerus  ( at the elbow )  .
absence of one or more forearm bones associated with congenital failure of development .
a descriptive term for a forearm bone that appears to have an additional bone within it on radiography .
a bending or abnormal curvature affecting either the radius ,  the ulna ,  or both .
bone fracture in the radius ,  ulna ,  or wrist .
abnormally wide bone of the skeleton of forearm .
missing radius bone associated with congenital failure of development .
increased width of the radius .
missing ulna bone associated with congenital failure of development .
increased length of the ulna .
osteosclerosis  ( increased density related to increased bone mass )  of the ulna .
reduction in diameter of the ulna .
increased width of the ulna .
an injury of the wrist with displacement of any of the eight carpal bones .
the distal epiphysis  ( rounded portion of bone at the far end of the radius distal to the growth plate )  has an abnormal cone - shaped appearance .
a premature fusion of the epiphyseal plates of the radius .
abnormal increase in width of the epiphyseal growth plate of the radius .
the presence of a splayed  ( i .e . , flared )  metaphyseal segment of the radius .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of the metaphysis of the radius .
increase in width  ( breadth )  of the radial metaphysis .
an anomaly of the radial diaphysis .
increase in width of the diaphysis of radius .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of the metaphysis of the ulna .
a sloped configuration of the metaphysis  ( shaft )  of the ulna .
increase in width  ( breadth )  of the ulnar metaphysis .
the total absence of the hand ,  with no bony elements distal to the radius or ulna .
ossification of hand bones at an earlier age than normal .
ossification of hand bones is less advanced than would be expected according to age - adjusted norms .
pattern of hand - wrist development does not fit the normal sequence of ossification of the individual bones of the hand .
osteosclerosis affecting one or more bones of the hand .
fusion of the hands and feet by a thin membrane of skin  ( scarring )  seen in forms of dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa and leading to a  \ "mitten \ " hand deformity .
wrist is bent inward toward the thumb because of a congenital defect associated with shortening or absence of the radius .
a hand in which the fingers are of nearly equal length and deflected at the first interphalangeal joint ,  so as to give a forklike shape consisting of separation of the first and second as well as the third and fourth digits .
deviated fingers is a term that should be used if one or more fingers of the hand are deviated from their normal position ,  either to the radial or ulnar side .
significant increase in the length and girth of most or all of a digit compared to its contralateral digit  ( if unaffected )  or compared to what would be expected for age / body build .
an anomaly of the second finger ,  also known as the index finger .
an abnormal groove on the midline of the nose that may extend to the nasal tip .
this term groups together three conditions that presumably represent different degrees of severity of a midline defect of the nose or nasal tip .
an abnormal indentation of the skin in the region of the nasal tip .
an anomaly of the third finger .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the distal phalanx of the third finger .
osteolytic defects of the phalanges of the 4th  ( ring )  finger .
fusion of two or more bones of the 4th finger .
an abnormality affecting one or both 5th fingers .
clinodactyly refers to a bending or curvature of the fifth finger in the radial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the 4th finger )  .
abnormality of the phalanges of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
curved phalanges of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
fusion of two or more bones of the 5th finger .
hypoplastic / small middle phalanx of the fifth finger .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the little finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the little finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
abnormality of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the fifth finger .
abnormality of the distal phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
curved appearance of the distal phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
hypoplastic / small distal phalanx of the fifth finger .
a partial dislocation of the proximal interphalangeal joint of the little finger .
congenital absence of a carpal bone .
the presence of more than the normal number of carpal bones .
ossification of carpal bones at an abnormally early age .
the bone - in - bone sign is a radiographic finding produced by increased sclerosis  ( abnormally dense bone )  occurring intermittently with zones of relatively normal bone density .
carpal bones with irregular or fragmented margins .
increased size of carpal bones .
point - shaped  ( punctate )  calcifications affecting the carpal bones .
formation of bone tissue of scaphoid is less than expected for age .
underdevelopment of the scaphoid .
osseous fusion of the lunate and triquetrum .
an anomaly of trapezium .
formation of bone tissue of trapezium is less than expected for age .
underdevelopment of the trapezium .
formation of bone tissue of trapezoid is less than expected for age .
underdevelopment of the trapezoid .
a partial dislocation of some or all of the small joints of the hand .
abnormal formation of new bone on the surface of a bone of the hand .
an abnormal union between bones or parts of bones of the hand .
short palm .
for children from birth to 4 years of age ,  the palm width is more than 2 sd below the mean ;  for children from 4 to 16 years of age the palm width is below the 5th centile ;  or ,  the width of the palm appears disproportionately narrow for its length .
fusion of the second metacarpal - trapezoid .
a partial dislocation affecting some or all of the metacarpophalangeal joints .
an abnormality of the gastric mucous membrane .
an abnormality of the biliary system .
the presence of any abnormality affecting the abdominal wall .
the presence of a hernia in the abdominal wall .
any abnormality of the skeletal muscle cell .
involuntary contractions of muscle leading to involuntary movements of extremities ,  neck ,  trunk ,  or face .
an abnormality of the endocardium .
thickening of the left ventricle wall with congenital onset .
an abnormality in which the cardiac ventricles depolarize too early as a result of an abnormality of cardiac conduction pathways such as an accessory pathway .
an abnormality of macrophages .
a reticulocyte abnormality .
an abnormally decreased level of immunoglobulin in blood .
an abnormally decreased level of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  in blood .
abnormally reduced levels of aldosterone .
the presence of a fistula of the vagina .
the presence of a fistula connecting the urinary bladder to another organ or the skin .
a height below that which is expected according to age and gender norms .
an abnormal increase or decrease of weight or an abnormal distribution of mass in the body .
abnormally increased body weight .
abnormally low body weight .
severe weight loss ,  wasting of muscle ,  loss of appetite ,  and general debility related to a chronic disease .
any structural anomaly of the vitreous body .
an abnormality of the anterior segment of the eyeball  ( which comprises the structures in front of the vitreous humour: the cornea ,  iris ,  ciliary body ,  and lens )  .
an increase in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull .
a reduction in the magnitude or amount of ossification of the skull .
an abnormality of lymphocytes .
the presence of foam cells in the bone marrow ,  generally demonstrated by bone - marrow aspiration or biopsy .
partial or complete wasting  ( atrophy )  of the skin .
the presence of excessive redundant myelin in the peripheral nerve sheath .
abnormality of an amino acid metabolic process .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a aromatic amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a sulfur amino acid in the blood circulation .
abnormality of galactoside metabolism .a galactoside is a glycoside  ( a suger moiety bound to some other moiety )  containing galactose .
an abnormality of glycosphingolipid metabolism .
defects in the lysosomal glycosidases or specific co - activators ,  result in accumulation of the substrates ,  such as glycosphingolipids ,  including gangliosides in gm1 gangliosidosis  ( tay - sachs disease )  and gm2 gangliosidosis  ( sandhoff disease )  .
reduced function of the muscles required to generate subatmospheric pressure in the thoracic cavity during breathing: the diaphragm ,  the external intercostal and the interchondral part of the internal intercostal muscles .
this term applies to all changes in bone mineral density which  ( depending on severity )  can be seen on x - rays as a change in density and or structure of the bone .
a reduction of bone mineral density ,  that is ,  of the amount of matter per cubic centimeter of bones .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a purine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a pyrimidine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal circulation of leucine in the blood circulation .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a fatty acid in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of the balance or maintenance of the balance of acids and bases in bodily fluids ,  resulting in an abnormal ph .
an abnormal concentration of leptin in the blood .
an abnormality of the enteric nervous system ,  which comprises two types of ganglia ,  the myenteric  ( auerbach's )  and submucosal  ( meissner's )  plexuses .
any deviation from the normal concentration of calcium in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a nitrogen compound in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of tryptophan in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of glycolysis .
abnormally elevated concentration of a purine compound .
abnormally reduced concentration of a purine compound .
an abnormality of temperature homeostasis .
abnormality of glycosaminoglycan metabolism .
a type of dystonia that is localized to a specific part of the body .
loss of strength in the arm ,  leg ,  and sometimes face on one side of the body .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the nervous system .
a family of tumours arising in the embryonal remnants of the sympathetic nervous system ,  which includes neuroblastoma ,  ganglioneuroblastoma ,  and ganglioneuroma .
neoplasms located in the blood and blood - forming tissue  ( the bone marrow and lymphatic tissue )  .
abnormality of the anal canal .
an abnormality of alkaline phosphatase level .
deposition of calcium salts in the aortic valve .
a pathological narrowing in the region above the aortic valve associated with restricted left ventricular outflow .
abnormal calcification of the mitral valve .
underdevelopment of the left side of the heart .
truncus arteriosus  ( single great artery leaving the base of the heart ,  giving rise to the coronary ,  pulmonary ,  and systemic arteries )  with a short pulmonary trunk arises from the truncus arteriosus ,  giving rise to both pulmonary arteries .
inflammation of the alimentary part of the gastrointestinal system .
an inflammation of the colon and small intestine .
a colon of abnormally small caliber .
a functional rather than mechanical obstruction of the intestines ,  associated with manifestations that resemble those caused by an intestinal obstruction ,  including distension ,  abdominal pain ,  nausea ,  vomiting ,  constipation or diarrhea ,  in an individual in whom a mechanical blockage has been excluded .
polyp - like protrusions which are histologically hamartomas .
a kind of congenital defect of the anterior abdominal wall in which the intestines are evident through the thin ,  lax ,  and protruding abdominal wall in affected infants .
abnormal displacement or malposition of the anus .
an ulcer of the gastrointestinal tract .
congenital atresia of the pylorus .
an abnormality of the pylorus .
obstruction of the intestine due to abnormally thick meconium .
an abnormality of the nipple .
an anomaly in the ability to perceive and distinguish scents  ( odors )  .
a decreased sensitivity to odorants  ( that is ,  a decreased ability to perceive odors )  .
positioning of the nasal septum to the right or left in contrast to the normal midline position of the nasal septum .
an abnormality of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormal narrowing or constriction of the pulmonary artery ,  in the main pulmonary artery and / or in the left or right pulmonary artery branches .
intermittent claudication is a symptom of peripheral arterial occlusive disease .
inflammation of a vein associated with venous thrombosis  ( blood clot formation within the vein )  .
repeated episodes of inflammation of a vein associated with venous thrombosis  ( blood clot formation within the vein )  .
the formation of a blood clot inside an artery .
abnormal increase in systolic blood pressure .
a narrowing of the biparietal diameter  ( i .e . ,  of the transverse distance between the protuberances of the two parietal bones of the skull )  .
a forehead with abnormal flatness .
an abnormality of the cheek -  one of two bilateral soft tissue facial structures in the region of the face inferior to the eyes and between the nose and the ear .
this is a description previously used to describe a facial form characterized by a short ,  upturned nose ,  wide mouth ,  widely spaced eyes ,  and full cheeks .
increased susceptibility to viral infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of viral infection .
a combined immunodeficiency primary immune deficiency that is characterized by a more severe defect in both the t -  and b - lymphocyte systems .
an immunodeficiency defined by the absent or suboptimal functioning of one of the complement system proteins .
a lasting absence of total igg and total iga and total igm in the blood circulation ,  whereby at most trace quantities can be measured .
deficiency of secretory iga  ( polymers of 2 - 4 iga monomers are linked by two additional chains )  and is the primary antibody response at the mucosal level ,  where it forms immune complexes with pathogens and allergens .
a reduced level of the complement component c8 in circulation .
excessive growth of the bones of cranium ,  i .e . ,  of the skull .
bony overgrowth of the internal  ( endosteal )  surface of the frontal bone .
a characteristic appearance resulting from defective ossification of craniofacial bones .
premature closure of the coronal suture of skull .
a kind of craniosynostosis affecting the sagittal suture .
a kind of craniosynostosis affecting the lambdoidal suture .
the presence of erythrocytes that are sphere - shaped .
the presence of elliptical ,  cigar - shaped erythrocytes on peripheral blood smear .
the presence of erythrocytes with a mouth - shaped  ( stoma )  area of central pallor on peripheral blood smear .
the presence of abnormally shaped erythrocytes .
hepatic failure refers to the inability of the liver to perform its normal synthetic and metabolic functions ,  which can result in coagulopathy and alteration in the mental status of a previously healthy individual .
a groove of the skin immediately in front of the ear .
a rudimentary tag of ear tissue often containing a core of cartilage and located just in back of the auricle  ( outer part of the ear )  .
an abnormality of the middle - ear ossicles  ( three small bones called malleus ,  incus ,  and stapes )  that are contained within the middle ear and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid - filled labyrinth  ( cochlea )  .
a condition in which the superior portion of the helix is folded over to a greater degree than normal .
the presence of a dilated inner part of external acoustic meatus .
a benign bony growth projecting outward from a bone surface within the external auditory canal .
pits in the earlobes at the location where ears are typically pierced for earrings .
lack of measurable response to stimulation of auditory evoked potentials .
benign congenital lesion of the postauricular soft tissue consisting of a blind - ending narrow tube or pit .
small indentation anterior to the insertion of the ear .
an abnormality of the c - shaped rings of hyaline cartilage ,  normally 16 to 20 in number ,  that occupy the anterior two - thirds of the circumference of the trachea  ( the posterior portion of the ring is completed by fibrous and smooth muscle tissue )  .
chronic inflammation of the bronchi .
a congenital defect in the occipital region of the skull ,  covered by skin of the scalp and containing meninges or remnants of glial or neural tissues .
a developmental defect resulting in the congenital absence of skin on the scalp vertex ,  often just lateral to the midline .
hyperostosis  ( bony overgrowth )  of the mandible .
the anterior fontanelle generally ossifies by around the 18th month of life .
a developmental defect resulting in the congenital absence of skin on the scalp in the parietal area .
the progressive development of an abnormally large skull .
a relatively mild degree of macrocephaly in which the head circumference is not above two standard deviations from the mean ,  but appears dysproportionately large when other factors such as body stature are taken into account .
asymmetry of the bones of the skull and the face .
stagnation of head growth seen as flattening of the head circumference curve .
an abnormality of head shape characterized by the presence of a short ,  wide head as well as a pointy or conical form of the top of the head owing to premature closure of the coronal and lambdoid sutures .
the presence of an abnormally large skull with onset at birth .
excessive growth of the calvaria .
an enlargement of the posterior fontanelle relative to age - dependent norms .
an abnormally increased width of the cranial fontanelles and sutures .
excessive growth of the craniofacial bones .
absence or abnormal closure of the posterior portion of the choana  ( the posterior nasal aperture )  .
bilateral absence  ( atresia )  of the posterior nasal aperture  ( choana )  .
hyperplasia of the islets of langerhans ,  i .e . ,  of the regions of the pancreas that contain its endocrine cells .
increased length of the hairs of the eyebrows .
reduced or lacking hair growth in the temporal region  ( i .e . ,  around the temples on the side of the skull )  .
reduced or lacking hair growth in a generalized distribution .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the sacral region .
anterior cervical hypertrichosis  ( ach )  or 'hairy throat' refers to the presence of a tuft of terminal hair on the anterior neck ,  just above the laryngeal prominence .
a confluent ,  generalized overgrowth of silvery blonde to gray lanugo hair at birth .
generalized excessive ,  abnormal hairiness .
a flattened vertebral body shape with reduced distance between the vertebral endplates affecting the cervical spine .
increased bone density affecting the bones of the spine  ( vertebral column )  .
bulbous appearance of the anterior vertebral bodies ,  such that the vertebral bodies have the greatest vertical height anteriorly as well as bulbous anterior superior - inferior contours .
anterior tongue - like protrusions of the vertebral bodies .
increased top to bottom height of vertebral bodies .
an abnormality of the shape of the thoracic vertebra t11 such that it is wedge - shaped  ( narrow towards the front )  .
sclerosis  ( increased density )  affecting vertebral end plates .
an excessive concavity of the anterior surface of one or more vertebral bodies .
exaggerated concavity of the anterior or posterior surface of the vertebral body ,  i .e . ,  the upper and lower vertebral endplates are hollowed inward .
a flattened vertebral body shape with reduced distance beween the vertebral endplates affecting the thoracic spine .
three ossification sites are present in typical vertebral bodies  ( c3 - l5 ) : a single ossification center in the vertebral body ,  and one each in the two neural arches .
the closed form of spina bifida with incomplete closure of the vertebra l5 with intact overlying skin .
fusion of cervical vertebrae at c2 and c3 ,  caused by a failure in the normal segmentation or division of the cervical vertebrae during the early weeks of fetal development ,  leading to a short neck with a low hairline at the back of the head ,  and restricted mobility of the upper spine .
a lack of bone mineralization of the vertebral bodies .
a lack of ossification of the vertebral bodies .
anterior tongue - like protrusions of the lower thoracic vertebral bodies .
anterior mislocalization of the dens of the axis .
an abnormal narrowing of the lumbar spinal canal .
the closed form of spina bifida with incomplete closure of s1 with intact overlying skin .
a discontinuity of the vertebral arch ,  i .e . ,  of the posterior part of a vertebra .
butterfly vertebrae have a cleft through the body of the vertebrae and a funnel shape at the ends .
increased size of the vertebral pedicle .
a progressive form of decreased height of the intervertebral disk .
presence of abnormal convexity of the upper and lower end plates of the vertebrae ,  i .e . ,  an exaggerated bulging out of the upper and lower vertebral end plates .
reduced size of cervical vertebrae .
anterior tongue - like protrusions of thoracic vertebral bodies .
an abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation of cervical vertebrae during development .
over curvature of the lower thoracic region ,  leading to a round back or if sever to a hump .
fusion of the c5 and c6 cervical vertebrae .
an elevation of alpha - feto protein measured in the amniotic fluid .
underdevelopment of the nasal bone .
underdevelopment of one or more muscles innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
reduced strength of the frontalis muscle  ( which is located on the forehead )  .
hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  occurring in the midline region of the face .
a reduced degree of voluntary and involuntary facial movements involved in responded to others or expressing emotions .
narrow ,  paramedian longitudinal depressions in the plantar skin of the forefoot .
outward turning of the heel ,  resulting in clubfoot with the person walking on the inner part of the foot .
underdevelopment of the third metatarsal bone leading to a short  ( hypoplastic )  third metatarsal bone .
short fourth metatarsal bone .
an abnormal thickening of the achilles tendon .
syndactyly with fusion of toes two and three .
syndactyly with fusion of toes four and five .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the calcaneus .
decrease in mass and density of the metatarsal bones .
short  ( hypoplastic )  fifth metatarsal bone .
an abnormality of the normal developmental rotation of the kidney leading to an abnormal orientation of the kidney .
acute renal failure with resolution of manifestations .
an abnormality of the normal developmental rotation of the kidney leading to an abnormal axial orientation of the kidney .
an increase in amplitude of waves returned in ultrasonography of the kidney ,  which is generally displayed as increased brightness of the signal .
increase in thickness of the basal lamina of the glomerulus of the kidney .
the presence of calcium - containing calculi  ( stones )  in the kidneys .
a defect in the ability to concentrate the urine .
acute inflammation of the kidney affecting the interstitium of the kidneys surrounding the tubules .
a reduction in the ability of the kidneys to remove uric acid from the serum .
cysts of microscopic size confined to the cortex of the kidney .
a developmental anomaly in which the kidneys are fused and localized on the same side of the midline .
complete and diffuse scarring of glomerulus .
an abnormality of the renal collecting system .
chronic inflammation of the kidney affecting the interstitium of the kidneys surrounding the tubules .
electron dense deposits at the glomerular basement membrane , 
a type of atrial arrhythmia characterized by atrial rates of between 240 and 400 beats per minute and some degree of atrioventricular node conduction block .
episodes of ventricular tachycardia that have a sudden onset and ending .
a form of atrioventricular  ( av )  dissociation  ( i .e . ,  the atria and the ventricles are under the control of two separate pacemakers )  with congenital onset .
af that cannot be successfully terminated by cardioversion ,  and longstanding  ( more than 1 year )  af ,  where cardioversion is not indicated or has not been attempted ,  is termed permanent .
supraventricular tachycardia  ( svt )  is an abnormally increased heart rate  ( over 100 beats per minute at rest )  with origin above the level of the ventricles .
a tachycardia originating in the ventricles characterized by rapid heart rate  ( over 100 beats per minute )  and broad qrs complexes  ( over 120 ms )  .
episodes of atrial fibrillation that typically last for several hours up to one day and terminate spontaneously .
polymorphic ventricular arrhythmias of varying morphologythat do not exist under resting conditions but appear only upon physical exercise or catecholamine administration .
underdevelopment or reduced size of the heart right ventricle ,  often due to a reduced number of cells .
an episodic form of supraventricular tachycardia with abrupt onset and termination .
myxomatous mitral valve is defined as the presence of excess leaflet tissue and leaflet thickening greater than 5 mm ,  resulting in a prolapse greater than 2 mm into the left atrium on parasternal long axis view .
decreased number of head hairs per unit area on the anterior region of the scalp .
fragile ,  easily breakable scalp hair .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the elbow region .
presence of multiple polyps in the duodenum .
the presence of multiple juvenile polyps in the stomach and intestine .
an anatomical anomaly that results from an abnormal rotation of the gut as it returns to the abdominal cavity during embryogenesis .
acute hepatitis complicated by acute liver failure with hepatic encephalopathy occurring less than 8 weeks after the onset of jaundice .
fluid retention and edema in the intestine caused by a compromised lymphatic system .
an inability to digest lactose .
underdevelopment of the small intestine .
defect in the epithelium of the esophagus ,  essentially an open sore in the lining of the esophagus .
the presence of a fistula between the perineum and the rectum .
a deviation from the normal rotation of the midgut during embryologic development with mislocalization of the small bowel .
polyp - like protrusions which are histologically hamartomas located in the stomach .
the presence of multiple areas of atresia affecting the small intestine .
recurrent infection of the gastrointestinal tract .
a form of hemolytic anemia that occurs in repeated episodes .
a form of hemolytic anemia with congenital onset .
a form of leukemia characterized by overproduction of an early myeloid cell .
low platelet count associated with maternal platelet - specific alloantibodies .
a type of hypoplastic anemia with congenital onset .
a type of all characterized by elevated levels of b - cell lymphoblasts in the bone marrow and the blood .
sudden onset of thrombocytopenia  ( reduced platelet count )  within 5 - 10 days of the transfusion of blood products .
a kind of hemolytic anemia that is induced by the ingestion of fava beans .
a form of hemolytic anemia that is triggered by ingestion of certain drugs .
a type of hypoplastic anemia in which the erythrocytes have a normal cell volume  ( the mean corpuscular volume is within normal limits )  .
an acute leukemia characterized by the proliferation of both neutrophil and monocyte precursors .
an excessive division of the lobes of the nucleus of a neutrophil .
a type of poikilocytosis characterized by the presence in the blood of erythrocytes of varying sizes and abnormal shapes .
an abnormal increase in the binding affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen .
a type of megaloblastic anemia that does not improve upon administration of folate .
a type of myelodysplastic syndrome characterized by less than 5% myeloblasts in the bone marrow ,  but with 15% or greater red cell precursors in the marrow being abnormal iron - stuffed cells called ringed sideroblasts .
repeated episodes of obstruction of blood flow due to an embolus ,  i .e . ,  blood clot that has traveled from its point of origin within the blood stream .
the presence of erythrocytes that are sphere - shaped and reduced in size .
a type of acute myeloid leukemia in which abnormal promyelocytes predominate .
a form of severe hemolytic anemia characterized by erythrocyte morphology reminiscent of that seen in patients after a thermal burn .
a type of anemia characterized by an abnormally low concentration of hemoglobin in the erythrocytes and lower than normal size of the erythrocytes .
decreased activity of coagulation factor xii .
a type of hemolytic anemia in which the coombs test is positive .
the accumulation of transformed primitive hematopoietic blast cells ,  which lose their ability of normal differentiation and proliferation .
bleeding that persists longer than the normal time following a surgical procedure .
a subset of acute lymphoblastic leukemia that results from a reciprocal translocation between the abl - 1 oncogene and a breakpoint cluster region  ( bcr )  ,  resulting in a fusion gene ,  bcr - abl ,  that encodes an oncogenic protein with constitutively active tyrosine kinase activity .
repeated episodes of the formation of a blot clot in a deep vein .
a type of megaloblastic anemia  ( i .e . ,  anemia characterized by the presence of erythroblasts that are larger than normal )  that improves upon the administration of folate .
decreased alkaline phosphatase measured within leukocytes .
reduced platelet count that occurs sporadically ,  i .e . ,  it comes and goes .
an abnormality of coagulation related to a decreased concentration of vitamin k - dependent protein s . protein s is a cofactor of protein c .
a type of anemia characterized by an normal concentration of hemoglobin in the erythrocytes and lower than normal size of the erythrocytes .
a type of anemia characterized by abnormally large erythrocytes with abnormally high amounts of haemoglobin .
thrombocytopenia related to lack of or severe reduction in the count of megakaryocytes .
a type of megaloblastic anemia  ( i .e . ,  anemia characterized by the presence of erythroblasts that are larger than normal )  that improves upon the administration of thiamine .
a type of sideroblastic anemia that is not responsive to treatment .
abnormal platelet response to adp as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of adp .
an chronic form of hemolytic anemia .
the presence of a fistula between the bowel and the perineum .
an abdominal hernia that occurs at a site of weakness in the abdominal wall resulting from an incompletely - healed surgical wound .
pneumothorax occurring neonatally without traumatic injury to the chest or lung .
lack of strength of the intercostal muscles ,  i .e . ,  of the muscle groups running along the ribs that create and move the chest wall .
episodic hyperventilation .
increased susceptibility to respiratory infections in early life ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of respiratory infections .
a state of respiratory distress that requires a life saving intervention in the form of gaining airway access and instituting positive pressure ventilation .
an abnormally elevated blood pressure in the circulation of the pulmonary artery .
increased susceptibility to infections due to aspiration ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of infections due to aspiration .
a form of lactic acidemia that occurs in relation to stress or infection .
a continuous form of lactic acidemia .
a severe form of lactic acidemia .
a form of lactic acidemia that occurs following exercise or exertion .
a form of lactic acidemia with congenital onset .
the term maturity - onset diabetes of the young  ( mody )  was initially used for patients diagnosed with fasting hyperglycemia that could be treated without insulin for more than two years ,  where the initial diagnosis was made at a young age  ( under 25 years )  .
a reduced concentration of vitamin a .
repeated transient episodes of metabolic acidosis ,  that is ,  of the buildup of acid or depletion of base due to accumulation of metabolic acids .
an intermittent  ( discontinuous )  form of lactic acidemia .
recurrent episodes of decreased concentration of glucose in the blood occurring during the infantile period .
an impairment of galactose metabolism .
a form of metabolic acidosis with increased serum chloride levels .
an abnormality of magnesium ion homeostasis .
an increased concentration of l - phenylalanine in the blood .
an abnormal resistance to glucose ,  i .e . ,  a reduction in the ability to maintain glucose levels in the blood stream within normal limits following oral administration of glucose .
a chronic form of lactic acidemia .
an abnormal widening of the diameter of the pulmonary artery .
arteriosclerosis  ( increased thickness ,  increased stiffness ,  loss of elasticity )  of the small arteries of the brain .
a separation of the layers within the wall of the ascending aorta .
abnormal calcification of the vasculature .
a congenital anomaly with a narrowing or complete absence of the opening between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery .
formation of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  inside a vein ,  causing the obstruction of blood flow .
an aneurysm  ( severe localized balloon - like outward bulging )  in the pulmonary artery .
excessive bending ,  twisting ,  and winding of a cerebral artery .
calcification ,  that is ,  pathological deposition of calcium salts ,  affecting arteries distributed throughout the body .
increased pressure in the pre - hepatic portal vein .
aortic dilatation refers to a dimension that is greater than the 95th percentile for the normal person age ,  sex and body size .
atherosclerosis which occurs in a person with certain risk factors  ( e .g . ,  sle ,  diabetes ,  smoking ,  hypertension ,  hypercholesterolaemia ,  family history of early heart disease )  at an earlier age than would occur in another person without those risk factors .
the presence of a localized dilatation or ballooning of a cerebral artery .
a separation  ( dissection )  of the layers of the extracranial portion of the internal carotid artery wall .
an abnormal connection between an artery and vein .
abnormal twisting of arteries or veins .
narrowing of peripheral arteries with reduction of blood flow to the limbs .
a rare vascular anomaly with a direct communication between pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein without an intervening capillary bed .
abnormal tortuous  ( i .e . ,  twisted )  form of arteries affecting most or all arteries .
an abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the descending thoracic aorta .
a congenital defect with aplasia  ( absence )  of one of the right or left pulmonary artery .
an anomalous origin of the left pulmonary artery ,  such that it arises from the posterior aspect of the right pulmonary artery and passes between the trachea and esophagus to reach the left hilum .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the thoracic aorta .
calcification ,  that is ,  pathological deposition of calcium salts in the aorta .
increase in mass of the tunica media of the arteries in the pulmonary circulation .
calcification ,  that is ,  pathological deposition of calcium salts in the tunica media of large  ( conduit )  arteries .
recurrent bleeding into the parenchyma of the brain .
stenosis of a peripheral branch of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the tubular part of the ascending aorta .
underdevelopment of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormal increase in the average blood pressure in an individual during a single cardiac cycle .
coarctation of the aorta is a narrowing or constriction of a segment of the abdominal aorta .
flaring of distal femur .
missing radius bone on both sides associated with congenital failure of development .
abnormally increased density of metaphyseal bone .
reduction in density of metaphyseal bony tissue .
shortening of the middle parts of the leg in relation to the upper and terminal segments .
disproportionate shortening of the proximal segment of the arm  ( i .e .
reduced diameter of a long bone with a more pronounced reduction of the diameter of the diaphysis of the long bones .
patellar dislocation occurring repeated times .
absence or underdevelopment of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
an abnormally flat form of the proximal epiphysis of the radius .
congenital onset bending or abnormal curvature of the femur that normalizes with age .
the humerus is shortened and displays flaring  ( widening )  of the metaphyses .
shortening of the middle parts of the arm in relation to the upper and terminal segments .
abnormally developed  ( dysplastic )  distal epiphysis of the radius .
underdevelopment of the distal portion of the humerus .
underdevelopment of the distal portion of the ulna .
developmental hypoplasia  ( shortening )  of all phalanges of the foot .
underdevelopment of the ulna on only one side .
an abnormal osseous union  ( fusion )  between the proximal portions of the radius and the ulna .
multiple exostoses originating in long bones .
irregular surface of the normally relatively smooth capital femoral epiphysis .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of the metaphysis at the proximal end of the humerus  ( at the shoulder )  .
an elevation in bone density of the cortex of one or more diaphyses .
a dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint in an anterolateral direction .
bony outgrowths that extend laterally from the margin of the metaphysis .
overgrowth of the proximal part of the fibula .
a dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint in an proximal direction .
the ability of the wrist joints to move beyond their normal range of motion .
a dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint in an anterior direction .
a limited ability of the knee joint extension and flexion .
an abnormality of the pattern of trabecula  ( small interconnecting rods of bone )  in a metaphyseal region of bone .
a lateral bending or abnormal curvature of the femur .
the presence of streaks  ( bands )  of abnormally increased density of metaphyseal bone .
absence of the proximal radial epiphysis .
a bending or abnormal curvature of the distal portion of the femur .
a type of hearing impairment affecting primarily the higher frequencies of sound  ( 3 , 000 to 6 , 000 hz )  .
deterioration or loss of the tissues of the cochlea .
ossification affecting the external ear cartilage .
underdevelopment of the nasal septum .
any abnormality of the vertebral end plates ,  which are the top and bottom portions of the vertebral bodies that interface with the vertebral discs .
an abnormality of the sacral bone .
an abnormality of the intervertebral disk .
an abnormality of the achilles tendon .
an atrial arrhythmia characterized by disorganized atrial activity without discrete p waves on the surface ekg ,  but instead by an undulating baseline or more sharply circumscribed atrial deflections of varying amplitude an frequency ranging from 350 to 600 per minute .
an abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the abdominal aorta .
an abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the aortic arch .
a type of arrhythmia that originates above the ventricles ,  whereby the electrical impulse propagates down the normal his purkinje system similar to normal sinus rhythm .
abnormal tortuous  ( i .e . ,  twisted )  form of arteries .
abnormal increase in diastolic blood pressure .
any structural abnormality of a cardiac atrium .
an excessive concavity of the posterior surface of one or more vertebral bodies .
compression of the heart caused by rigid ,  thickened ,  or fused pericardial membranes .
enlargement of the chamber of the right ventricle .
refers to the specific combination of defects with a severely dysplastic pulmonary valve and massively dilated branch pulmonary arteries .
an abnormality of the t wave on the electrocardiogram ,  which mainly represents the repolarization of the ventricles .
mitral annular calcification  ( mac )  results from progressive calcium deposition along and beneath the mitral valve annulus .
the right pulmonary artery originates from the ascending aorta in the presence of a pulmonary valve and main pulmonary artery .
the dividing wall between left and right sides of the heart ,  thickens and bulges into the left ventricle .
abnormal narrowing of the coronary artery .
abnormal calcification of a cardiac valve .
any defect in the valve connecting the heart and the pulmonary artery .
an impairment of the electrical continuity between the atria and ventricles .
narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized proximal to the ductus arteriosus ,  i .e . ,  to the preductal region of aortic arch .
a type of cardiomyopathy characterized pathologically by hamartomatous lesions of cardiac purkinje cells .
a ventircular escape rhythm occurs whenever higher - lever pacemakers in av junction or sinus node fail to control ventricular activation .
underdeveloped ,  small left heart atrium
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with an symmetrical and concentric pattern of hypertrophy .
total anomalous pulmonary venous return refers to a congenital malformation in which all four pulmonary veins do not connect normally to the left atrium ,  but instead drain abnormally to the right atrium .
inability of the left ventricle to perform its normal physiologic function .
a congenital malformation of the pulmonary valve characterized by leaflet deformation .
reduced time for the pr interval  ( beginning of the p wave to the beginning of the qrs complex )  .
an abnormal increase in magnitude of the pressure in the right atrium .
a type of third degree heart block in which the escape rhythm arises at a relatively low part of the conduction system  ( below the atrioventricular node )  ,  which produces a wide qrs complex .
conduction block in the posterior division of the left bundle branch of the bundle of his .
subvalvular stenosis is caused by a diaphragm - like membrane .
a congenital malformation of the aortic valve characterized by leaflet deformation .
arteriosclerosis occurring at an age that is younger than usual .
a type of third degree heart block in which the escape rhythm arises at the atrioventricular node ,  which produces a narrow qrs complex .
failure of the tricuspid valve to close sufficiently upon contraction of the right ventricle ,  causing blood to regurgitate  ( flow backward )  into the right atrium .
reduction of the diameter of the coronary arteries as the result of an accumulation of atheromatous plaques within the walls of the coronary arteries before age of 45 .
the presence of a bicuspid pulmonary valve .
an abnormal dilatation of lymph vessels in the pericardium .
a longer than normal interval  ( corrected for heart rate )  between the q and t waves in the heart's cycle .
a reduced ejection fraction and an enlarged left ventricle chamber ,  the latter by an increased resistance to filling with increased filling pressures .
abnormally flat shape of the heads of the metatarsal bones .
a sensation of stiffness in the joints that occurs following waking up in the morning .
interphalangeal joint stiffness is a perceived sensation of tightness in the interphalangeal joints when attempting to move them after a period of inactivity .
absence of the abdominal musculature .
a recurrent infection of the gi tract with helicobacter pylori ,  a gram - negative ,  microaerophilic bacterium usually found in the stomach .
the occurrence of the full - thickness tear  ( perforation )  of the wall of the esophagus .
cyst - like space not lined by epithelium and contained within the pancreas .
hypertrophy of the stomach .
watery voluminous diarrhea resulting from an imbalance between ion and water secretion and absorption .
the presence of cyst of the intrahepatic bile duct .
underdevelopment of the colon .
leukoplakia is a precancerous dermatosis of mucous membranes analogous leukoplakia is basically a chronic inflammatory hypertrophy in which anaplasia and malignant dyskeratosis may develop and subsequently advance to an invasive squamous cell cancer .
the presence of abnormal calcium deposition lesions in the pancreas .
blockage or impairment of the normal flow of the contents of the intestine towards the anal canal .
increased susceptibility to giardia lamblia infection of the intestine ,  as manifested by a medical history of multiple episodes of giardia lamblia intestinal infection .
an abnormal reduction in the ability to masticate  ( chew )  ,  i .e . ,  in the ability to crush and ground food in preparation for swallowing .
the presence of a fistula  ( abnormal tunnel )  between the anal canal and the perineum .
absence of gastric intrinsic factor ,  which is normally produced by the parietal cells of the stomach ,  and is required for the absorption of vitamin b12 .
the presence of multiple diverticula of the intestine .
a collection of pus in the area of the rectum .
accumulation of cell free ,  noninflammatony fluid within the wall of the intestinal tract producing uniform thickening of the mucosal folds .
presence of multiple adenomatous polyps in the colon .
obstruction affecting the biliary tree .
a chronic form of gastritis .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the pancreas .
the presence of a hypoplastic gallbladder .
a developmental defect resulting in abnormal closure ,  or atresia of the tubular structure of the jejunum .
a form of chronic pancreatitis that is characterized by calcification .
the presence of degenerative changes of the liver .
a congenital defect characterized by the lack of ganglion cells in the entire intestine ,  i .e . ,  the aganglionic segment comprises the entire large and small bowel .
atresia in the extrahepatic bile duct .
failure to form of portions of the abdominal musculature .
developmental hypoplasia of the intestine .
a type of gastritis characterized by excessive proliferation of the gastric mucosa and diffuse thickening of the gastric mucosal folds .
underdevelopment of the abdominal musculature .
atresia in the intrahepatic bile duct .
aplasia  ( congenital absence )  of the pectoralis minor .
aplasia  ( congenital absence )  of the pectoralis minor on only one side of the chest .
hemorrhage occurring within a joint .
the presence of inflammation of the gastric mucous membrane .
an abnormality of the gallbladder .
an abnormality of the jejunum ,  i .e . ,  of the middle section of the small intestine .
a discrete abnormal tissue mass that protrudes into the lumen of the intestine and is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk ,  pedunculus ,  or a broad base .
a pregnancy that ends at a stage in which the fetus is incapable of surviving on its own ,  defined as the spontaneous loss of a fetus before the 20th week of pregnancy .
exaggerated bulkiness of the crease or fold of skin running from the lateral margin of the nose ,  where nasal base meets the skin of the face ,  to a point just lateral to the corner of the mouth  ( cheilion ,  or commissure )  .
lack of the cartilage of the nasal septum .
posterior positioning of the nasal root in relation to the overall facial profile for age .
abnormality of the nostril .
a separation  ( dissection )  of the layers of an artery .
pseudocoarctation is a congenital anomaly of kinking ,  or buckling ,  of the aorta without a pressure gradient across the lesion .
peripheral arterial stenosis with onset before the age of 50 years .
a rare congenital vascular anomaly that results when the left superior cardinal vein caudal to the innominate vein fails to regress .
abnormal tortuous  ( i .e . ,  twisted )  form of the carotid arteries .
calcification ,  that is ,  pathological deposition of calcium salts in the arch of aorta .
formation of a blood clot  ( thrombus )  inside a cerebral vein ,  causing the obstruction of blood flow .
the presence of a capillary hemangioma ,  which are hemangiomas with small endothelial spaces .
a type of vasculitis  ( inflammation of blood vessel walls )  affecting large arteries such as the aorta and branches of the aorta .
formation of excess fibrous connective tissue in the tunica intima  ( innermost layer )  of arteries in the pulmonary circulation .
an arterial lesion that is characterized by either intimal fibroplasia ,  with neointimal lesions of cells and matrix deposition ,  or medial fibroplasia ,  in which there is loss of smooth muscle cells and increased deposition of collagen and proteoglycans in the medial layer .
inflammation of the blood vessels within the brain .
a type of craniofacial dysostosis associated with abnormalities of the external ears ,  mirognathia ,  macrostomia ,  coloboma of the lower eyelid ,  and cleft palate .
unilateral overgrowth of facial tissues ,  including muscles ,  bones and skin .
an abnormality of the gestures or movements executed with the facial muscles with which emotions such as fear ,  joy ,  sadness ,  surprise ,  and disgust can be expressed .
a pattern of hair growth in which there is hair extending from the temples to the lateral eyebrows .
underdevelopment of the philtrum .
a degree of wrinkling of the facial skin that is more than expected for the age of the individual ,  leading to a prematurely aged appearance .
recurrent partial dislocations of the mandible .
decreased density / number and / or decreased diameter of lateral eyebrow hairs .
an abnormality of the complement system .
abnormal bladder function  ( increased urge or frequency of urination or urge incontinence )  resulting from abnormal functioning of the autonomic nervous system .
underdevelopment of the urinary bladder .
any structural abnormality of the carotid arteries ,  including the common carotid artery and its' arterial branches .
an abnormality of the structure of the veins that return deoxygenated blood from the body into the heart ,  i .e . ,  the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava .
inspiratory stridor is a high pitched sound upon inspiration that is generally related to laryngeal abnormalities .
hypoplasia of the epiglottis .
a primary immune deficiency that is characterized by defects or deficiencies of t - lymphocytes that causes specific susceptibility to intracellular micro - organisms .
increased susceptibility to herpesvirus ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of herpesvirus .
complete inability of t cells to perform their functions in cell - mediated immunity .
a reduced level of the complement component factor i in circulation .
reduced functionality of the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a b cell .
absence of the thymus .this feature may be appreciated by the lack of a thymic shadow upon radiographic examination .
increased susceptibility to chicken pox ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of chicken pox .
a general term referring to a defect in immunity resulting from impaired antibody production .
a severe form of b lymphocytopenia in which the count of b cells is very low or absent .
increased susceptibility to streptococcus pneumoniae infections as manifested by a history of recurrent infections by streptococcus pneumoniae .
an abnormality of the humoral immune system ,  which comprises antibodies produced by b cells as well as the complement system .
a reduced level of the complement component factor h in circulation .
an abnormality of the physiological functioning of b cells .
an immunodeficiency characterized by defective cell - mediated immunity or humoral immunity .
increased susceptibility to haemophilus influenzae infections as manifested by recurrent episodes of infection by haemophilus influenzae .
recurrent infections by neisseria meningitidis  ( one of the most common causes of bacterial meningitis )  ,  which is also known as meningococcus .
a reduced ability of a b cell to become activated ,  i .e . ,  the change in morphology and behavior of
increased susceptibility to protozoan infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of protozoan infection .
a group of phenotypically heterogeneous genetic disorders characterized by profound deficiencies of t -  and b - cell function ,  which predispose the patients to both infectious and noninfectious complications .
an abnormal reduction in the components of the alternative complement pathway ,  such as the c3 protein or its cleavage products .
increased susceptibility to opportunistic infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of infection by opportunistic agents ,  i .e . ,  by microorganisms that do not usually cause disease in a healthy host ,  but are able to infect a host with a compromised immune system .
increased susceptibility to coronavirus 229e ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of coronavirus 229e .
an abnormal reduction of the cell motility of neutrophils .
an increased susceptibility to candida infections ,  as manifested by a history of recurrent episodes of candida infections .
an abnormally low count of t cells .
an abnormal increase from the normal count of b cells .
increased susceptibility to bacterial infections of the skin ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of infectious dermatitis .
a decreased proportion of circulating cd4 - positive helper t cells relative to total t cell count .
persistent overgrowth of candida albicans in the gastrointestinal tract .
an abnormally increased level of circulationg alpha - globulin .
a decreased proportion of circulating cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cells relative to total number of t cells .
a reduced level of the complement component factor b in circulation .
decreased or impaired activation of t cells in response to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
increased susceptibility to infection by gram - negative bacteria ,  as manifested by a medical history of repeated or frequent infections by these agents .
a reduced level of the complement component c3 in circulation .
lack of detectible cd8 - positive t cells
an abnormality of the functioning of any aspect of the alternative complement pathway .
absence of specific immunoglobulins directed against a specific antigen or microorganism .
an increased susceptibility to infections involving both the paranasal sinuses and the lungs ,  as manifested by a history of recurrent sinopulmonary infections .
increased susceptibility to systemic pyogenic infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of systemic pyogenic infections .
recurrent infections by bacteria of the genus neisseria ,  including n . meningitidis  ( one of the most common causes of bacterial meningitis )  .
at birth ,  newborns are endowed with maternal antibodies .
abnormally reduced ability of t cells to perform their functions in cell - mediated immunity .
recurrent infections at an early age with improvement in later childhood .
hypoplasia of the maxillozygomatic complex .
an increased density in the cranial sutures following obliteration .
the presence of a coronal suture  ( the cranial suture that separates the frontal and parietal bones )  that is not ossified but rather wide open at an age when it is normally closed .
abnormal increased size of the posterior cranial fossa .
abnormally flat  ( obtuse )  angle of the mandible .
an increase in bone density affecting the calvaria  ( roof of the skull )  .
aplasia or hypoplasia of the paranasal sinuses .
lack  ( aplasia )  of the ethmoidal sinus .
normally ,  the posterior and lateral fontanelles are obliterated by about six months after birth ,  the anterior fontanelle closes by about the middle of the second year .
the presence of calcium deposition in the falx cerebri .
abnormally increased density of craniofacial bone tissue .
excessive growth  ( overgrowth )  of the facial bones ,  that is of the facial skeleton .
underdevelopment of the frontal bone .
reduced convexity of the occiput  ( posterior part of skull )  .
bony fusion of malleus ,  incus ,  and stapes .
abnormal reduction in ossification of the calvaria  ( roof of the skull consisting of the frontal bone ,  parietal bones ,  temporal bones ,  and occipital bone )  .
the presence of a sagittal suture  ( the cranial suture that separates the left and right parietal bones )  that is not ossified but rather wide open at an age when it is normally closed .
progressively increasing bone density of the skull base without significant changes in bony contour .
an abnormally decreased level of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  in blood .
a deviation in any aspect of the alternative complement pathway .
an abnormality of the epiglottis .
head circumference which falls below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender because of insufficient head growth after birth .
a fontanelle that is small for age .
vertical bony ridge positioned in the midline of the forehead .
the postnatal development of an abnormally large skull  ( macrocephaly )  .
the frontal suture divides the two halves of the frontal bone in infants and usually fuses by the age of six years .
a myeloproliferative disorder characterized by increased proliferation of the granulocytic cell line without the loss of their capacity to differentiate .
normal adult hemoglobin is composed of two chains each of alpha and beta globin .
presence of a monoclonal immunoglobulin m protein in the serum .
a transient reduction in the number of erythroblasts in the circulation .
anemia characterized by abnormal intracellular inclusions ,  composed of denatured hemoglobin ,  found on the membrane of red blood cells .
a reduction in the ability of neutrophils to kill the gram - positive bacteria ,  staphylococcus ,  which is commonly known as staph .
increased megakaryocyte number ,  i .e . ,  of platelet precursor cells ,  present in the bone marrow .
a type of t - cell lymphoma in which cancerous t - cells may present in the blood  ( leukemia )  ,  lymph nodes  ( lymphoma )  ,  skin or in multiple areas .
larger than normal size of erythrocytes .
a chronic form of disseminated intravascular coagulation in which a persistent weak or intermittent activating stimulus is present and destruction and production of coagulation factors and platelets are balanced .
disseminated intravascular coagulation is characterized by the widespread activation of coagulation ,  which results in the intravascular formation of fibrin and ultimately thrombotic occlusion of small and midsize vessels .
a type of sideroblastic anemia that is alleviated by pyridoxine  ( vitamin b - 6 )  treatment .
a malignant lymphocytic neoplasm of b - cell or t - cell lineage involving primarily the bone marrow and the peripheral blood .
reduction in the amount of kininogen ,  which functions as a cofactor in the contact phase of the intrinsic blood coagulation cascade .
a reduced number of hematopoietic cells present in the bone marrow relative to marrow fat .
a type of actue leukemia with features characteristic of both the myeloid and lymphoid lineages .
a unique clonal neoplastic disorder that is linked to trisomy 21 ,  is restricted to neonatal period ,  and spontaneously regresses .
a form of hemolytic anemia that can be triggered by exertion .
average platelet volume below the lower limit of the normal reference interval .
a form of lymphoid leukemia or lymphoma in which too many t - cell lymphoblasts are found in the blood ,  bone marrow ,  and tissues .
a form of poikilocytosis in which the abnormally shaped erythrocytes have notches that results in projections that look like horns .
congenital onset of a marked decrease in the number of granulocytes .
an abnormal prolongation  ( delay )  in the time required by whole blood to produce a visible clot .
an abnormality of coagulation related to a decreased concentration of vitamin k - dependent protein c . protein c is activated to protein ca by thrombin bound to thrombomodulin .
proliferation  ( excess production )  of hemopoietically active tissue or of tissue which has embryonic hemopoietic potential .
a reduced count of megakaryocytes .
a form of neutropenia with congenital onset .
a chronic lymphocytic / lymphatic / lymphoblastic leukemia  ( cll )  is a neoplastic disease characterized by proliferation and accumulation  ( blood ,  marrow and lymphoid organs )  of morphologically mature but immunologically dysfunctional lymphocytes .
the frontal suture divides the two halves of the frontal bone of the skull in infants and children and generally undergoes fusion by the age of six .
an abnormality of the zygomatic arch ,  also known as the cheek bone .
a slowly progressing leukemia characterized by a clonal  ( malignant )  proliferation of maturing and mature myeloid cells or mature lymphocytes .
normal hemoglobin synthesis is characterized by production of equal amounts of alpha and beta globins .
an anomaly of the form or number of cells in the bone marrow .
the presence of many cysts in the kidney .
a reduction in the count of nephrons per kidney .
a lack of differentiation between renal cortex and medulla on diagnostic imaging .
reduced differentiation between renal cortex and medulla on diagnostic imaging .
high urine magnesium in the presence of hypomagnesemia .
a type of proximal renal tubulopathy characterized by resorption defects leading to glycosuria ,  aminoaciduria ,  tubular proteinuria ,  renal hypophosphatemia ,  and urate tubular hyporeabsorption without bicarbonate loss .
a progressive detrimental connective tissue deposition  ( fibrosis )  on the kidney parenchyma involving the tubules and interstitial tissue of the kidney .
any impairment of reabsorption of chloride by the kidney in order to not lose too much chloride in the urine .
a duplication of the renal pelvis .
disruption and breaking up of the basement membrane of the tubules of the kidney .
a type of carcinoma of the kidney with origin in the epithelium of the proximal convoluted renal tubule .
a focal type of palmoplantar keratoderma in which only certain areas of the palms and soles are affected .
the presence of large spherical melanosomes  ( 1 to 6 micrometer in diameter )  in the cytoplasm of melanocytes .
loss of all scalp hair with congenital onset .
telangiectases  ( small dilated blood vessels )  located near the surface of the skin in a butterfly midface distribution .
the giant congenital nevus is greater than 8 cm in size ,  pigmented and often hairy .
large hypermelanotic macules with jagged borders .
the presence of a bilobed gallbladder ,  related to a duplication of the gallbladder primordium .
absence or underdevelopment of the femur .
an abnormally increased rate of skeletal maturation .
hyperconvexity of the thoracolumbar spine producing a rounded or humped appearance .
the ability of the interphalangeal joints to move beyond their normal range of motion .
increased cross - section  ( diameter )  of the long bones .
absent ossification of the calvaria  ( vault of the skull )  .
osteoporosis affecting predominantly the vertebrae .
bony fusion of the posterior part of the l5 vertebral body with the sacrum .
this type of brachydactyly is characterized by short and broad terminal phalanges of the thumbs and big toes .
the ability of the joints of the hand to move beyond their normal range of motion .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the third toe .
the presence of abnormal calcium deposition of the intervertebral disk .
underdevelopment of the ulna on both sides .
a soft tissue continuity in the anteroposterior axis between the second to the fifth fingers that extends distally to at least the level of the proximal interphalangeal joints .
sclerosis  ( abnormal hardening )  of cortical bone ,  characterized by increased radiodensity .
moderate osteoporosis .
multiple exostoses originating in the fingers and toes .
a foot deformity resulting due to an abnormality affecting the muscle and soft tissue .
osteomyelitis caused by infection with the bacteria ,  salmonella .
extreme thickening of the cortex of long bones .
separation of the odontoid process from the body of the axis .
deposition of calcium salts on both sides of the brain .
an abnormality of the hand resulting from contracture of the palmar fascia with a fixed flexion deformity of the metacarpophalangeal  ( mcp )  joints and the proximal interphalangeal  ( pip )  joints .
a tongue - like protusion from the anterior aspect of lumbar vertebral bodies .
an inherited primary limb malformation disorder characterized by congenital contractures of two or more different body areas and without primary neurologic and / or muscle disease that affects limb function .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density .
increased mobility and flexibility in the joint due to the tension in tissues such as ligaments and muscles .
supernumerary digits located at the ulnar side of the hand with a complete extra finger and extra metacarpal .
a bilateral form of triphalangeal thumb .
abnormal reduction in length of all metacarpal bones .
the ability of the thumb joints to move beyond their normal range of motion .
a form of triphalangeal thumb that cannot be placed opposite the fingers of the same hand .
an abnormal irregularity of cortical bone .
an abnormal narrowing of the spinal canal related to a reduction in the interpedicular distance  ( i .e . ,  the distance measured between the pedicles on frontal  [ coronal ]  imaging )  .
underdevelopment  ( reduced size )  of the tibia .
partial dislocation of the head of the radius in the posterior direction .
avascular necrosis of the proximal epiphysis of the femur occurring in growing children and caused by an interruption of the blood supply to the head of the femur close to the hip joint .
an increase in bone density affecting the basicranium  ( base of the skull )  .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in one or more epiphyses during the neonatal period .
abnormal elevation of the floor of the posterior fossa including occipital condyles and foramen magnum .
an abnormally small and flat configuration of the posterior cranial fossa .
a soft tissue continuity in the anteroposterior axis between the toes 2 ,  3 ,  and 4 .
bending or curvature of the distal phalanx of little finger in the radial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the 4th finger )  .
absence or underdevelopment of the tibia .
underdevelopment of both forearm bones ,  the ulna and the radius ,  resulting in a shortened forearm .
absence of the distal interphalangeal flexion creases of the fourth finger .
a flattened vertebral body shape with reduced distance beween the vertebral endplates affecting the lumbar spine .
an abnormal increase of bone mineral density with generalized involvement of the skeleton .
abnormal thickening of the cortex of the diaphyseal region of long bones .
underdevelopment of the humerus .
abnormally short distal phalanx of toe of all toes .
a dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint in an posterior direction .
aplasia  ( absence )  of the distal phalanges .
the presence of more than 12 rib pairs .
combined syndactyly and polydactyly of the foot on the lateral side  ( i .e . ,  on the side of the little toe )  .
short  ( hypoplastic )  middle phalanx of finger ,  affecting one or more fingers .
bending or curvature of a second toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  toe joints that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
a type of dysharmonic skeletal maturation in which there is a delay in skeletal maturation whose degree differs markedly in different bones .
an abnormally round shape of the middle phalanx of the finger .
generalized deposition of calcium salts within the brain .
the presence of bone fractures in the prenatal period that are diagnosed at birth or before .
a dislocation of the head of the radius from its socket in the elbow joint in an ulnar direction .
in type e brachydactyly ,  shortening of the fingers is mainly in the metacarpals and metatarsals .
a pathologic entity characterized by a developmental defect in a long bone leading to bending and pathologic fracture ,  with inability to form a normal bony callus with subsequent fibrous nonunion ,  leading to the pseudarthrosis  ( or  \ "false joint \ " )  .
a form of triphalangeal thumb that can be placed opposite the fingers of the same hand .
an enchondroma is a benign growth of cartilage that develops within the medullary cavity of bone .
an abnormality of skeletal development characterized by a disturbance of the metaphysis and its histological structure with relatively normal epiphyses and vertebrae .
disproportionately short middle and distal phalanges compared to the hand / foot .
combined syndactyly and polydactyly of the great toe .
progressively worsening joint contractures .
multiple bent  ( flexed )  finger joints that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
fusion of a metacarpal bone with the proximal phalanx of the finger distal to it across the corresponding metacarpophalangeal joint .
a lack of bone mineralization of one or more body of cervical vertebra .
absence of a digit or of one or more phalanges of a finger .
bony overgrowth of the internal  ( endosteal )  surface of the calvaria and the base of skull .
progressive bending or abnormal curvature of the forearm skeleton .
duplication of the metacarpal i bones .
severe degree of osteoporosis .
abnormal mineralization of the metaphyseal area of bones .
presence of an angular or v  - shaped indentation on the ulnar side of the fifth metacarpal bone  ( i .e . ,  on the sides towards the fifth finger )  .
the presence of an abnormal curvature of the cervical vertebral column .
an abnormally reduced degree of pneumatization  ( i .e . ,  formation of air cells )  in the mastoid process with respect to age - dependent norms .
rhomboid or triangular shaped 5th  ( little )  finger middle phalanx .
atresia of the biliary tree .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the metacarpal bones .
irregularly shaped metacarpal bones of varying degree .
the presence of more than the normal number of metacarpal bones .
abnormalities affecting the phalanx of finger .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the hand .
any structural anomaly of the hand .
any abnormality of the epiphyses of the phalanges or metacarpal bones .
an anomaly of the outer shell  ( cortex )  of a hand bone .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the hand .
an anomaly of epiphysis ,  which is the expanded articular end of a long bone that developes from a secondary ossification center ,  and which during the period of growth is either entirely cartilaginous or is separated from the shaft by a cartilaginous disk .
an abnormality of corticomedullary differentiation  ( cmd )  on diagnostic imaging such as magnetic resonance imaging ,  computer tomography ,  or sonography .
abnormal arrangement of the structures of the motile cilium .
diffuse filling of the distal airsspaces of the lungs ,  the alveoli ,  with macrophages .
bilateral lack of development of the lungs .
blockage of the upper airway at the level of the larynx often accompanied by respiratory distress .
reduced tendency to respond to a reduced concentration of oxygen in the blood by increasing respiration .
the presence of multiple lung cysts .
recurrent episodes of apnea occurring during infancy .
a membrane - like structure that extends across the laryngeal lumen close to the level of the vocal cords .
abnormal shortening of the larynx in the anteroposterior  ( front to back )  axis .
an impairment of gluconeogenesis .
a decreased concentration of arginine in the blood .
episodes of reduced body termperature .
disordered thermoregulation characterized by an impaired ability to maintain a balance between heat production and heat loss ,  with resulting instability of body temperature .
acidosis because of respiratory retention of carbon dioxide .
intermittent episodes of ketoacidosis .
a type of diabetes mellitus initially characterized by insulin resistance and hyperinsulinemia and subsequently by glucose interolerance and hyperglycemia .
a reduction in phenylalanine 4 - monooxygenase level .
an elevation of alpha - feto protein in the maternal serum .
enlargement of the thyroid gland related to multiple nodules in the thyroid gland .
a congenital form of torticollis resulting from shortening of the sternocleidomastoid muscle and leading to a limited range of motion in both rotation and lateral bending .
excess skin around the neck ,  often lying in horizontal folds .
developmental hypoplasia of the thyroid gland .
enlargement of the thyroid gland related to one or more nodules in the thyroid gland .
reduced amount of adipose tissue in the region of the neck .
a developmental defect defined by the failure of the formation of the lumen  ( tube )  of the ureter .
obstruction of the flow of urine through the ureter .
increased side - to - side width of one or more phalanges of the fingers or toes .
severely shortened metacarpal with a cuboidal appearance .
delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more phalanx .
metaphyseal cupping affecting the metacarpal bones .
y - shaped metacarpals are the result of a partial fusion of two metacarpal bones ,  with the two arms of the y pointing in the distal direction .
abnormal increase in width of the distal region of the metacarpal bones .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphyses of the metacarpal bones ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more long bones .
a chronic loss of joint motion in metacarpophalangeal joints due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevents normal movement .
absence of the proximal interphalangeal flexion creases of the fingers .
malalignement of carpal bone angles either with respect to each other ,  to the corresponding metacarpals or with respect to the wrist  ( radius and ulna )  .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers three and four .
increased mobility of one ore more metacarpophalangeal joint .
webbing or fusion of the fingers ,  involving soft parts only or including bone structure .
telangiectasia  ( small dilated blood vessels )  located in the fingerpads at the tips of the fingers .
metacarpal that becomes thinner toward the distal end .
absence of one or more interphalangeal creases  ( i .e . ,  of the transverse lines in the skin between the phalanges of the fingers )  .
short ,  hypoplastic middle phalanx of finger ,  affecting all fingers .
the presence of multiple creases on the palm of the hand  ( more than the normal three major creases  ( distal transverse crease ,  proximal transverse crease ,  and thenar crease )  .
hypoplasia of all of the distal phalanx of finger .
some or all of the metacarpal bones  ( i .e . ,  metacarpal ii to v )  have a pointed proximal appearance .
a type of digital ulcer that manifests as an open sore on the surface of the skin at the tip of a finger or toe .
increased length of the proximal phalanx of finger .
rounding and broadening of the tufts of the distal phalanges .
abnormally large size of the metaphyseal epiphyses .
fusion of the epiphysis and metaphysis of one or more phalanges prior to the normal age or stage of growth .
congenital hypoplasia of proximal phalanx of finger or all fingers .
a central y - shaped metacarpal is the result of a partial fusion of two central metacarpals  ( i .e . ,  metacarpals 2 - 4 )  of the hand ,  with the two arms of the y pointing in the distal direction .
increased side - to - side width of the metacarpal epiphyses .
a swan neck deformity describes a finger with a hyperextended pip joint and a flexed dip joint .
the term proximal symphalangism refers to a bony fusion of the middle and proximal phalanges of the digits of the hand ,  in other words the proximal interphalangeal joint  ( pij )  is missing which can be seen either on x - rays or as an absence of the proximal interphalangeal finger creases .
increased length of multiple or a single phalanx of finger .
bending or curvature of a thumb towards the ulnar side  ( towards the ring finger )  .
the presence of a supernumerary finger  ( not a thumb )  involving the third or fourth metacarpal with associated osseous syndactyly .
irregular morphology of one or more metacarpal bones .
a morphological abnormality of distal phalanges such that they have the appearance of chess pawns .
increase in bone density in the diaphyseal  ( shaft )  region of a metacarpal bone .
poorly defined or shallow palmar creases .
excessively deep creases of the palm .
phalanges of the fingers becoming thinner toward the distal end .
the middle phalanx of finger resembles a thimble ,  a small metal cap to protect the finger while sewing that has a broad  ( proximal )  base and narrower top ,  whereby both base and top are flat .
alteration of the normally smooth radiographic contour of phalanges producing an irregular appearance .
presence of an additional phalanx - like bone ,  producing an extra ,  wedge - shaped bone at the base of the proximal phalanx of the second finger .
metaphyseal cupping affecting the proximal phalanges .
presence of only one  ( instead of two ,  as normal )  interphalangeal crease of the fifth finger .
a reduction in diameter of the distal phalanx of finger towards the distal end such that the tip of the phalanx comes to a point  ( this feature can be observed on radiograms )  .
an increased resorption of bone matrix by osteoclasts leading to bony defects involving the tarsal bones .
decreased width of the metacarpal bones  ( that is ,  reduced diameter )  .
abnormal shortening of all middle phalanges of toes .
an abnormal limitation of the mobility of the wrist .
an increased concentration of alpha - fetoprotein .
a small / hypoplastic or absent / aplastic 5th finger .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the proximal ,  middle ,  and distal phalanges of the 2nd finger .
a small / hypoplastic or absent / aplastic 2nd finger .
small / hypoplastic or absent / aplastic fingers .
reduced size of the placenta .
increased size of the placenta .
intermittently increased size of the spleen .
underdevelopment of the spleen .
the presence of lymphangiectasis in the pancreas .
reduced number of beta cells in the pancreatic islets of langerhans .
hyperplasia of the pancreas .
the presence of pancreatic tissue outside the normal pancreas ,  in many cases along the foregut and proximal midgut .
a chronic form of pancreatitis .
a generalized form of developmental hypoplasia of the dental enamel .
the presence of multiple embedded tooth germs which have failed to erupt .
a decreased amount of enamel mineralization .
premature tooth eruption ,  which can be defined as tooth eruption more than 2 sd earlier than the mean eruption age .
agenesis of one or more central incisors ,  i .e . ,  of lower secondary incisor ,  lower primary incisor ,  upper secondary incisor ,  or of upper central primary incisor .
the presence of discolored lateral incisors .
an abnormality of tooth eruption .
agenesis of upper secondary incisor or of upper central primary incisor .
developmental hypoplasia of the dental enamel .
prolonged bleeding post dental extraction sufficient to require medical intervention .
dagger - shaped calcifications in the dental pulp .
a generalized form of microdontia .
increased space between the primary teeth .
the presence of a single ,  median maxillary incisor ,  affecting both the primary maxillary incisor and the permanent maxillary incisor .
irregular distribution of the teeth along the dental arch ,  i .e . ,  and irregular spatial pattern of teeth .
loss of the primary  ( also known as deciduous )  teeth before the usual age .
underdevelopment of the alveolar process  ( also known as alveolar bone )  .
the presence of a supernumerary ,  i .e . ,  extra ,  maxillary incisor ,  either the primary maxillary incisor or the permanent maxillary incisor .
a type of dental misalignment with crowded central incisors ,  i .e . ,  of maxillary secondary incisor ,  or of maxillary central primary incisor .
developmental hypoplasia of the primary teeth .
persistence of the primary teeth beyond the age by which they normally are shed and replaced by the permanent teeth .
short dental root .
premature tooth eruption of the permanent dentition .
an abnormality of the morphology of secondary premolar tooth .
an abnormal conical morphology of the primary or permanent mandibular incisors .
peg - shaped upper lateral secondary incisor tooth .
an abnormality of morphology of primary molar .
an abnormality of morphology of the incisor tooth in which the tooth is shaped like a screwdriver blade ,  i .e . ,  having a rhomboid shape .
decreased size of the primary teeth .
a congenital defect characterized by the absence of one or more permanent teeth ,  including oligodontia ,  hypodontia ,  and adontia of the of permanent teeth .
obliteration of the pulp chambers owing to mineralization of the dental pulp .
lack of tooth eruption of the secondary dentition .
developmental hypoplasia of the tooth germ ,  i .e . ,  of the structure that forms in odontogenesis that will develop into a tooth .
agenesis of lower secondary incisor or lower primary incisor .
premature loss of the permanent teeth .
incisors with a thick marginal ridge surrounding a deep lingual fossa are termed shovel - shaped incisors .
an crumpled radiographic appearance of the long bones ,  as if the long bone had been crushed together producing irregularities .
an alteration of the normally relatively smooth margins of the kneecap in radiographic images leading to an irregular contour .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the distal epiphysis of the ulna .
increased width of the diaphysis of long bones .
the femur is shortened and displays flaring  ( widening )  of the metaphyses .
a bent  ( flexed )  knee joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
absent or nearly absent fibula .
progressive bending or abnormal curvature of a long bone .
an abnormal conformation of the femur that becomes gradually enlarged towards the distal end .
shortening of the legs related to developmental hypoplasia of the bones of the leg .
underdevelopment of the distal epiphysis of the radius .
increased width of the distal part of the shaft  ( metaphysis )  of the femur .
an abnormal anterior bending or curvature of the tibia .
overconstriction ,  or narrowness of the diaphysis and metaphysis of long bones .
an abnormal increase in the bone density of the long bones .
a limitation of the ability to place the forearm in a position such that the palm faces anteriorly  ( supination )  and to place the forearm in a position such that the palm faces posteriorly  ( pronation )  .
an abnormal flattening of the distal epiphysis of femur .
an abnormal conformation of the femur that becomes gradually enlarged towards the proximal end .
anomaly of the contour of the distal epiphysis of femur such that its normally smooth appearance is irregular .
progressive bending or abnormal curvature of the leg .
a bending or abnormal curvature of the distal portion of the tibia .
increased density of the compact bone of long bone .
the presence of asymmetric developmental dysplasia of the radius .
increased length of the radius .
an abnormally wide femoral neck  ( which is the process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft )  .
an anomaly of the metaphysis of the proximal femur  ( close to the hip )  .
radial dysplasia ,  also known as radial longitudinal deficiency ,  includes radial clubhand and is a disfiguring ,  and potentially disabling ,  congenital limb anomaly .
proximal radial shortening owing to a congenital defect of development .
an abnormal enlargement of the distal epiphysis of the femur .
underdevelopment or shortening of the end of the fibula  ( calf bone )  nearest the knee .
absence of the patella .
a developmental anomaly with lateral displacement of the femoral head .
formation of bone in the patella later than normal .
anomaly of the contour of the proximal epiphysis of the tibia such that its normally smooth appearance is irregular .
partial dislocation of the ulna in the dorsal direction .
slipped capital femoral epiphysis is defined as a posterior and inferior slippage of the proximal epiphysis of the femur onto the metaphysis  ( femoral neck )  ,  occurring through the physeal plate during the early adolescent growth spurt .
a generalized decrease in bone mineral density .
thickening of the periosteum of long bone .
a chronic loss of ankle joint motion due to structural changes in muscle ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  or skin that prevent normal movement of the joints of the ankle .
a limitation of the range of movement of the shoulder joint .
decreased width of the diaphysis of long bones .
an abnormal anterior curvature of a long bone .
an abnormality of the islet of langerhans ,  i .e . ,  of the regions of the pancreas that contain its endocrine cells .
any abnormality of the alveolar ridges  ( on the upper or lower jaws )  .
an abnormality of the dental pulp .
premature loss of teeth not related to trauma or neglect .
any abnormality of the primary tooth .
an abnormality of the morphology of the tooth .
the presence of an altered number of of teeth .
agenesis of incisor .
an abnormality of the dental root .
a bending or abnormal curvature of a long bone .
a bending or abnormal curvature affecting a long bone of the arm .
an anomaly of the femoral metaphysis .
absence or underdevelopment of the fibula .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the lower limbs .
absence or underdevelopment of the ulna .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the bones of the upper limbs .
absence or underdevelopment of the patella .
an anomaly of a growth plate of a femur .
an anomaly of one or more epiphyses of one or both legs .
a small / hypoplastic or absent / aplastic radius .
absence or underdevelopment of the carpal bones .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of one or more forearm bones .
an anomaly of one or more epiphyses of a limb .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the humerus .
an anomaly that is characterized progressive airflow obstruction that is only partly reversible ,  inflammation in the airways ,  and systemic effects or comorbities .
an abnormal high - pitched noisy sound ,  occurring during inhalation or exhalation caused by the incomplete obstruction in the throat .
hypersensitivity pneumonitis involves inhalation of an antigen .
accumulation of amorphous pas - positive material in the space betweem alveolar macrophages ,  sometimes as condensed form  ( oval bodies )  are typically found in alveolar proteinosis .
substantial narrowing or blockage of small pulmonary veins as a result of disorganized smooth muscle hypertrophy and collagen matrix deposition .
adenocarcinoma of the bronchus .
abnormal dilatation of the pulmonary lymphatic vessels .
a lymphocyte - predominant infiltration of the lungs characterized by bibasilar pulmonary infiltrates with dense interstitial accumulations of lymphocytes and plasma cells .
according to the definitions of the american and british thoracic societies ,  including pulmonary functional tests ,  x - rays ,  and ct scans for items such as fibrosis ,  bronchiectasis ,  bullae ,  emphysema ,  nodular or lymphomatous abnormalities .
an abnormality of the pulmonary lymphatic chain .
abnormality of the lung parenchyma extending to the pulmonary interstitium and leading to diffuse pulmonary fibrosis .
an increased susceptibility to pneumonia as manifested by a history of recurrent episodes of pneumonia .
a recurrent hemorrhage occurring within the lung .
obstruction of conducting airways of the lung .
an increased susceptibility to bronchopulmonary infections as manifested by a history of recurrent bronchopulmonary infections .
a type of pulmonary sequestration that is completely enclosed in its own pleural sac ,  occurring above ,  within ,  or below the diaphragm ,  and without communication with the tracheobronchial tree .
pulmonary arteriovenous malformation ,  a condition most commonly associated with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia ,  is an abnormal communication between the pulmonary artery and pulmonary vein without an intervening capillary communication .
hepatic failure refers to the inability of the liver to perform its normal synthetic and metabolic functions ,  which can result in coagulopathy and alteration in the mental status of a previously healthy individual .
a diffuse form of hepatic steatosis .
decreased activity of complex iii of the mitochondrion in the liver .
the presence of abnormal calcium deposition in the liver .
hyperplasia of the biliary tree ,  as manifested by increased size of bile ducts ,  dilated lumen ,  and histologically by an increased number of epithelial cells or hyperplasia .
inflammation of the liver due to infection with a virus .
intermittently increased size of the liver .
an abnormal increase in the amount of intracellular lipid droplets in hepatocytes .
an increase in the amount of glycogen stored in hepatocytes compared to normal .
the presence of reduced numbers of intrahepatic bile duct than normal .
an acute form of hepatic steatosis .
a type of cirrhosis characterized by the presence of large regenerative nodules .
neonatal jaundice refers to a yellowing of the skin and other tissues of a newborn infant as a result of increased concentrations of bilirubin in the blood .
fibroblast proliferation and fiber expansion from the portal areas to the lobule .
an abnormal reduction in the number of mitochondria in hepatocytes .
repeated occurrences of acute noninflammatory encephalopathy and fatty degenerative liver failure .
the two portions of the clavicle  ( corresponding to the two primary ossification centers of the clavicle )  are connected by a fibrous bridge that is contiguous with the periosteum ,  and a synovial membrane develops ,  resulting in a clavicle with a bipartite appearance radiographically .
an abnormally straight configuration of the clavicle ,  a tubular bone which normally is doubly curved  .
prematurely closed sternal sutures .
lack of development of the glenoid fossa ,  also known as the glenoid cavity ,  which is the articular surface of the scapula that articulates with the head of the humerus .
bony fusion between the humerus and scapula ,  leading to an impairment in mobility of the affected shoulder joint .
the presence of a paralyzed diaphragm .
irregular surface of the normally relatively smooth border between the distal part of the ribs and the costal cartilages ,  which are bars of hyaline cartilage that connect the ribs to the sternum .
early ossification of the costochondral junction ,  which is the joint between the ribs and costal cartilage in the front of the rib cage .
underdevelopment of the middle portion of the clavicle .
a larger than usual distance between the left and right nipple .
a less than normal number of sternal ossification centers .
lack of formation and mineralization of the ribs in utero .
deposition of calcium salts in point - like foci within the anterior portion of one or more ribs .
abnormal increase in density of the tissue at the costochondral junctions .
breast carcinoma that is bilateral or otherwise multifocal .
lack of formation of mineralized bony tissue of the sternum .
underdevelopment of the glenoid fossa ,  which is the cavity in the lateral part of the scapula which articulates with the head of the humerus .
osteosclerosis of ribs  ( increased density related to increased bone mass )  .
developmental defect resulting in congenital absence of the middle portion of the clavicle .
more than one fracture of the ribs .
abnormally reduced diameter  ( cross section )  of the clavicles .
calcification of the costal cartilages ,  which are bars of hyaline cartilage found at the anterior ends of the ribs which serve to prolong the ribs forward and contribute to the elasticity of the walls of the thorax .
chest wall pain in the area of the costochondral junctions .
absence of the clavicles as a developmental defect .
an abnormal morphology of the ribs consisting of shorted ,  abnormally curved ribs .
increased time for the complex comprised of the q wave ,  r wave ,  and s wave as measured by the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  . .
inflammation of the coronary arteries involving a granulomatous response ,  i .e . ,  a non - specific inflammatory response involving granulomas ,  defined as a compact organized collection of mature mononuclear phagocytes including epithelioid and giant cells .
premature ventricular contractions  ( pvc )  or ventricular extrasystoles are premature contractions of the heart that arise in response to an impulse in the ventricles rather than the normal impulse from the sinoatrial  ( sa )  node .
an abnormality of filling of a ventricle with blood during diastole .
a form of ventricular preexcitation due to the presence of multiple accessory pathways for cardiac conduction .
the presence of excessive connective tissue in the endocardium .
abnormal tortuous  ( i .e . ,  twisted )  form of the aorta .
a bacterial infection of the endocardium ,  the inner layer of the heart ,  which usually involves the heart valves .
calcium deposition in the myocardium .
abnormally short chordae tendineae of the tricuspid valve .
steatosis in the myocardium .
a defect of the atrioventricular septum of the heart .
a localized outpouching of ventricular cavity that is generally associated with dyskinesia and paradoxical expansion during systole .
a type of cardiac arrhythmia with premature atrial contractions or beats caused by signals originating from ectopic atrial sites .
acute occurrence of a dissection  ( tear within the tunica intima and entry of blood into the tunica media )  of a coronary artery .
any structural abnormality of the coronary arteries .
an abnormality of an atrioventricular valve .
an abnormality of the hepatic vasculature .
absence or underdevelopment of the clavicles  ( collar bones )  .
a form of acute leukemia characterized by excess lympoblasts .
the presence of an adenocarcinoma of the pancreas .
acute lymphoblastic leukemia of t - cell origin .
the presence of an follicular adenocarcinoma of the thyroid gland .
a type of papillary renal cell carcinoma in which the papillae are covered by large eosinophilic cells with pleomorphic nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and nuclear pseudostratification .
a rare subtype of acute myeloid leukemia evolving from primitive megakaryoblasts .
the presence of an adenoma in the cortex of the kidney .
pheochromocytoma not originating from the adrenal medulla but from another source such as from chromaffin cells in or about sympathetic ganglia .
squamous cell carcinoma of the skin is a malignant tumor of squamous epithelium .
the presence of a carcinoma of the urinary bladder with origin in a transitional epithelial cell .
a malignant neoplasm of the adrenal cortex that may produce hormones such as cortisol ,  aldosterone ,  estrogen ,  or testosterone .
pheochromocytoma originating from the adrenal medulla .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the stomach .
the presence of leiomyosarcoma of the skin .
the presence of a malignant neoplasm of the genital system .
the presence of a carcinoma in the renal pelvis .
a slowly growing malignant neoplasm derived from cartilage cells .
the presence of renal cell carcinoma in the renal papilla .
a type of pituitary adenoma originating in prolactin secreting cells .
a subtype of renal cell carcinoma thought to originate from mature renal tubular cells in the proximal tubule of the nehpron .
a malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the duodenum .
a benign renal neoplasm composed of fat ,  vascular ,  and smooth muscle elements .
the presence of a papillary adenocarcinoma of the ovary .
a malignant plasma cell tumor growing within soft tissue or within the skeleton .
a non - malignant neoplasm of the genitourinary system .
a malignancy of the parathyroid glands .
a kind of thyroid adenoma characterized by the presence of oxyphil cells .
underdevelopment of the paranasal sinuses .
muscular dystrophy affecting the muscles of the limb girdle  ( the hips and shoulders )  .
any anomaly of the anterior horn cell .
reduced amount of myelin in the nervous system resulting from defective myelinogenesis in the white matter of the central nervous system .
a type of focal clonic seizure characterized by sustained rhythmic jerking rapidly involves one side of the body at seizure onset .
absence or underdevelopment of the vermis of cerebellum .
a form of lissencephaly in which the cortex is thickened and has four more or less disorganized layers rather than six normal layers resulting from incomplete neuronal migration during brain development .
a type of polymicrogyria with a gradient of severity  ( anterior more severe than posterior )  extending from frontal poles posteriorly to precentral gyrus and inferiorly to frontal operculum .
a severe degree of muscular hypotonia characterized by markedly reduced muscle tone .
a cessation of the development of a child in the areas of motor skills ,  speech and language ,  cognitive skills ,  and social and / or emotional skills ,  following the onset of epilepsy .
a type of horner syndrome with congenital onset .
absence of the knee jerk reflex ,  which can normally be elicited by tapping the patellar tendon with a reflex hammer just below the patella .
underdevelopment of the ventral portion of the pons .
multiple neurofibromas of the spinal nerve roots with a symmetric distribution .
the occurrence of repeated episodes of generalized muscular hypotonia .
wasting  ( atrophy )  of the vermis of cerebellum .
a loss or impairment of the sensation of the relative position of parts of the body and joint position occuring at distal joints .
a severe delay in the acquisition of the ability to use language to communicate needs ,  wishes ,  or thoughts .
a type of holoprosencephaly in which most of the right and left cerebral hemispheres and lateral ventricles are separated but the most rostral aspect of the telencephalon ,  the frontal lobes ,  are fused ,  especially ventrally .
underdevelopment of the cerebrum .
a symmetric and progressive loss of myelin from the internode regions along myelinated nerve fibers of the peripheral nervous system .
atrophy affecting the pons and the cerebellum .
a hemangioblastoma of the cerebellum .
a diffuse loss of myelin from the internode regions along myelinated nerve fibers of the peripheral nervous system .
a decrease in the ability to perceive vibration in the distal portions of the limbs .
the term progressive intellectual disability should be used if intelligence decreases / deteriorates over time .
borderline intellectual disability is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  in the range of 70 - 85 .
atrophy  ( wasting ,  decrease in size of cells or tissue )  affecting the frontotemporal cerebrum .
the presence of calcium deposition within brain structures that is present already at the time of birth .
atrophy of the frontal cortex .
curvilinear intracellular accumulation of autofluorescent lipopigment storage material within axons .
stiffness  ( a condition in which muscles cannot be moved quickly without accompanying pain or spasm )  of the axial musculature .
excessive number of small gyri  ( convolutions )  on the surface of one side of the brain .
brain damage related to a lowering of blood glucose below a critical level  ( around 30 mg / dl )  ,  which may lead to confusion ,  lethargy and delirium followed by seizures and coma .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the cortex of frontal lobe and the cortex of parietal lobe .
nystagmus dating from or present at birth .
a reduced sense of touch  ( tactile sensation )  on the skin of the distal limbs .
a decrease in the ability to perceive vibration at the ankles .
a complete loss of the ability to perceive vibration .
an increased susceptibility to meningitis as manifested by a medical history of recurrent episodes of meningitis .
hypoplasia of the cerebellum ,  pontine nuclei ,  and inferior olivary nucleus .
an abnormality of the auditory evoked potentials ,  which are used to trace the signal generated by a sound ,  from the cochlear nerve ,  through the lateral lemniscus ,  to the medial geniculate nucleus ,  and to the cortex .
proximal spinal muscular atrophy ,  i .e . ,  muscular weakness and atrophy related to loss of the motor neurons of the spinal cord and brainstem .
the presence of calcium deposition in the choroid plexus .
a type of encephalopathy  ( brain disease ,  damage ,  or malfunction accompanied by an altered mental state )  that is characterized by evidence of necrosis of brain tissue .
any abnormal alteration of an individual's circadian rhythm that affects the timing of sleeping and being awake .
leukoencephalopathy that gets more severe with time .
a type of holoprosencephaly characterized by the presence of a single ventricle and no separation of the cerebral hemisphere .
dysplasia and dysgenesis of the corpus callosum are nonspecific descriptions that imply defective development of the corpus callosum .
a type of gliosis that occurs in the vicinity of injured neurons .
focal proliferation of glial cells in the basal ganglia .
progressive impairment of function of motor axons with muscle weakness ,  atrophy ,  and cramps .
the formation of small cavities in the tissue of the basal ganglia .
an abnormality of the ability  ( skills )  to perform a precise movement of small muscles with the intent to perform a specific act .
paralysis of the fourth cranial  ( trochlear )  nerve manifested as weakness of the superior oblique muscle which causes vertical diplopia that is maximal when the affected eye is adducted and directed inferiorly .
an abnormality of the ability  ( skills )  to perform a precise movement of large muscles with the intent to perform a specific act .
attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  ( adhd )  manifests at age 2 - 3 years or by first grade at the latest .
inability to perceive painful stimuli .
cerebral hemorrhage that occurs before birth .
bilateral impairment of the function of the cranial nerves 9 - 12 ,  which control musculature involved in eating ,  swallowing ,  and speech .
a morphological abnormality of the metencephalon .
a small ,  sac - like aneurysm  ( outpouching )  of a cerebral blood vessel .
the presence of dysplasia  ( abnormal growth or development )  of the cerebellum .
meningitis that persists for more than 4 weeks ,  and lymphocytes are present in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
partial or complete wasting  ( loss )  of dentate nucleus .
increased size of the basal ganglia .
generalized atrophy or hypoplasia of the cerebrum .
progressive loss of previously present language abilities .
peripheral sensory neuropathy affecting primarily distal sensation .
underdevelopment of the inferior portion of the vermis of cerebellum .
increased vertical dimension of the corpus callosum .
muscular rigidity  ( continuous contraction of muscles with constant resistance to passive movement )  .
a reduction in the amplitude of sensory nerve action potential .
an increase in size of the third ventricle .
fasciculations affecting the tongue muscle and the musculature of the face .
an excessive number of small gyri  ( convolutions )  on the surface of the brain in the frontoparietal region .
episodes of choreoathetosis that can occur following triggers such as quick voluntary movements .
arnold - chiari type i malformation refers to a relatively mild degree of herniation of the posteroinferior region of the cerebellum  ( the cerebellar tonsils )  into the cervical canal with little or no displacement of the fourth ventricle .
a darker than expected signal on magnetic resonance imaging emanating from the cerebral white matter .
encephalopathy with onset in the infantile period .
a loss of myelin from the internode regions along myelinated nerve fibers from segments of the peripheral nervous system .
demyelinating neuropathy is characterized by slow nerve conduction velocities with reduced amplitudes of sensory / motor nerve conduction and prolonged distal latencies .
atrophy of the temporal cortex .
a particular type of dementia characterized by a pattern of mental defects consisting prominently of forgetfulness ,  slowness of thought processes ,  and personality or mood change .
amyotrophy  ( muscular atrophy )  affecting the proximal musculature .
acute progressive areflexic weakness and mild sensory changes resulting from myelin breakdown and axonal degeneration .
neurodegeneration involving the globus pallidus , a part of the basal ganglia that is involved in the regulation of voluntary movement .
muscular atrophy of distal arm muscles .
stiffness of the limbs  ( a condition in which muscles cannot be moved quickly without accompanying pain or spasm )  occurring in an asymmetric pattern .
a progressive degree of muscular rigidity  ( continuous contraction of muscles with constant resistance to passive movement )  .
a diffuse loss of myelin from nerve fibers in the central nervous system .
a form of gray matter heterotopia were the mislocalized gray matter is typically located periventricularly ,  also sometimes called subependymal heterotopia .
episodic bouts of involuntary movements with dystonic ,  choreic ,  ballistic movements ,  or a combination thereof .
a complete lack of the ability to track objects with the ocular smooth pursuit system ,  a class of rather slow eye movements that minimizes retinal target motion .
atrophy of the interosseus muscles  ( including the palmar interossei that lie on the anterior aspect of the metacarpals ,  the dorsal interosseus muscles of the hand ,  which lie between the intercarpals ,  the plantar interosseus muscles ,  which lie underneath the metatarsal bones ,  and the dorsal interossei ,  which are located between the metatarsal bones .
reduced amount of myelin in the nervous system resulting from defective myelinogenesis in the peripheral nervous system .
a lighter than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the basal ganglia .
a congenital absence of the convolutions of the cerebral cortex and a poorly formed sylvian fissure that affects a particular part of the cortex .
facial diplegia  ( that is ,  bilateral facial palsy )  with congenital onset .
generalized tonic - clonic seizures on awakening are a form of generalized tonic - clonic seizures that occur upon awaking .
atherosclerosis  ( hp:0002621 )  of a cerebral artery .
enlargement of all or parts of one cerebral hemisphere .
generalized - onset tonic - clonic seizures that are provoked by flashing or flickering light .
presence of irregular redundant loops of focally folded myelin in a peripheral nerve .
complete loss of ability to move facial muscles innervated by the facial nerve  ( i .e . ,  the seventh cranial nerve )  .
muscular atrophy affecting the lower limb .
episodes of muscle weakness associated with elevated levels of potassium in the blood .
demyelination of peripheral motor nerves .
increased size of cerebral gyri ,  often associated with a moderate reduction in the number of sulci of the cerebrum .
the presence of calcium deposition in the cerebral white matter surrounding the cerebral ventricles .
a reduction in the amplitude of sensory nerve action potential in distal nerve segments .
groups of small caliber axons in peripheral nerve biospies indicative of axonal regeneration .
a type of gait ataxia displaying progression of clinical severity .
alternating and recurrent weakness of the external ocular muscles .
functional neurological abnormalities related to dysfunction of the pyramidal tract .
a severe loss of myelin from nerve fibers in the central nervous system .
a form of lissencephaly characterized by an uneven cortical surface with a so called 'cobblestone' appearace .
a symmetric loss of myelin from the internode regions along myelinated nerve fibers of the peripheral nervous system .
atrophy affecting the cerebellum and the spinocerebellar tracts of the spinal cord .
agenesis of the midbrain .
defective structure and function of myelin sheaths of the white matter of the brain .
an abnormality characterized by chronic impairment of the normal functioning of the axons .
muscular weakness and atrophy related to loss of the motor neurons of the spinal cord and brainstem .
an atypical absence seizure is a type of generalised non - motor  ( absence )  seizure characterised by interruption of ongoing activities and reduced responsiveness .
an increased susceptibility to bacterial meningitis as manifested by a medical history of recurrent episodes of bacterial meningitis .
a cessation of the development of a child in the areas of motor skills ,  speech and language ,  cognitive skills ,  and social and / or emotional skills .
paralysis of the facial nerves on the basis of overgrowth of the cranial bones causing impingement upon the seventh cranial nerve .
nystagmus consisting of horizontal to - and - fro eye movements ,  in which the movement in one direction is faster than in the other .
fasciculations affecting the musculature of the arms and legs .
a discrete posterior fossa cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  collection that does not communicate directly with the fourth ventricle .
a loss of myelin from nerve fibers in the central nervous system .
multiple areas of darker than expected signal on magnetic resonance imaging emanating from the deep cerebral white matter .
a type of dystonia that affects all or most of the body .
reduced ability to perceive painful stimuli .
focal seizure characterized at onset by clonic movements affecting half of the face .
underdevelopment of the frontal lobe of the cerebrum .
a bilateral tonic - clonic seizure with focal onset is a focal - onset seizure which progresses into a bilateral tonic - clonic phase .
recurrent episodes of brain dysfunction that may be triggered by factors such as metabolic disturbances or infections .
a saccade that overshoots the target with the dynamic saccade .
weakness of the muscles of the legs .
any structural anomaly of the limbic system ,  a set of midline structures surrounding the brainstem of the mammalian brain ,  originally described anatomically ,  e .g . ,  hippocampal formation ,  amygdala ,  hypothalamus ,  cingulate cortex .
a type of tremors that is triggered by holding an arm in a fixed position .
a focal - onset seizure is a type of seizure originating within networks limited to one hemisphere .
an abnormality of the pons .
the presence of atrophy  ( wasting )  of the cerebrum ,  also known as the telencephalon ,  the largest and most highly developed part of the human brain .
absence or underdevelopment of the corpus callosum .
the presence of atrophy  ( wasting )  of the corpus callosum .
wasting involving the motor neuron .
an abnormality of the septum pellucidum ,  which is a thin ,  triangular ,  vertical membrane separating the lateral ventricles of the brain .
an abnormality of the choroid plexus ,  which is the area in the cerebral ventricles in which cerebrospinal fluid is produced by modified ependymal cells .
an abnormality of somatosensory evoked potentials  ( ssep )  ,  i .e . ,  of the electrical signals of sensation going from the body to the brain in response to a defined stimulus .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the gastrointestinal tract .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the genitourinary system .
telangiectases  ( small dilated blood vessels )  located near the surface of the skin of the face .
a developmental defect resulting in the congenital absence of skin on the scalp .
underdevelopment of the sweat glands .
a type of ichthyosiform erythroderma with postnatal onset .
photosensitivity of the skin occurring early in life .
developmental hypoplasia of the apocrine sweat glands in the region of the axilla .
well - demarcated area ( s )  of partial or complete depigmentation in the macula ,  reflecting atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium with associated retinal photoreceptor loss .
increased susceptibility to infection by the protozan parasite of the genus leishmania .
an abnormally increased perspiration on palms and soles .
naevus flammeus localised in the skin of the forehead .
cutaneous lesion that develops as a dry ,  scaly ,  red patch that evolves to an indurated and hyperpigmented plaque with adherent scale .
loss of all scalp hair .
spontaneous development of hematomas  ( hematoma )  or bruises without significant trauma .
telangiectases  ( small dilated blood vessels )  located near the surface of the skin of the cheeks .
telangiectasia  ( that is ,  the presence of small dilated superficial blood vessels )  of the oral mucosa .
the presence of two to five cafe - au - lait macules .
generalized abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin ,  or in one or more cavities of the body .
an ichthyosiform abnormality of the skin with congenital onset .
hemangioma is a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells .
the presence of multiple leiomyomas of the skin .
absence of melanin pigment in various areas ,  which is found at birth and is permanent .
a type of blistering that affects the skin of the palms of the hands and the soles of the feet .
lichenification affecting primarily flexural areas of the skin .
prominent thoracic and abdominal veins .
keratinization of the bulbar conjunctiva near the limbus  ( corneoscleral junction )  ,  resulting in a raised spot .
reduced number or density of facial hair .
increased amount of keratin  ( visible as white scales )  surrounding hair follicles .
cutis gyrata of palms and soles .
subcutaneous nodules that are located in the vicinity of joints .
an ichthyosiform abnormality of the skin that presents at birth or shortly thereafter with generalized erythema ,  blistering ,  erosions ,  and peeling .
an abnormality of dermatoglyphs  ( fingerprints )  ,  which are present on fingers ,  palms ,  toes ,  and soles .
the term collodion baby applies to newborns who appear to have an extra layer of skin  ( known as a collodion membrane )  that has a collodion - like quality .
lack of subcutaneous adipose tissue .
telangiectases  ( small dilated blood vessels )  with a diffuse localization .
hyperkeratosis affecting the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot in areas exposed to friction .
increased susceptibility to staphylococcal infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of staphylococcal infections .
the presence of fewer than normal sweat glands .
a skin condition characterized by excessive development of keratin in hair follicles ,  resulting in rough ,  cone - shaped ,  elevated papules resulting from closure of hair follicles with a white plug of sebum .
tiny bumps of thickened skin  ( hyperkeratosis )  on the palms of the hands .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin on the back of the hands .
loose and sagging skin of the fingers .
loose ,  wrinkled skin of hands and feet .
loss of hair in the occipital region of the scalp with congenital onset .
a severe degree of photosensitivity of the skin .
presence of a cutaneous lipoma on the forehead .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  of the anterior chest .
piebaldism is characterized by stable and persistent ,  well - circumscribed depigmented patches present at birth affecting the skin of the face ,  trunk ,  and extremities in a symmetrical distribution .
hyperkeratosis affecting the sole of the foot .
the presence of six or more cafe - au - lait spots .
seborrheic dermatitis that is not localized to any one particular region .
hyperkeratosis lenticularis perstans  ( hlp )  ,  also known as flegel disease ,  is a keratinization abnormality characterized by small ,  asymptomatic erythematous papules that leave characteristic punctate bleeding when they become detached .
a form of atopic dermatitis with onset in adulthood characterized by atopic red face ,  chronic lichenified eczema on the trunk ,  subacute or psoriasiform dermatitis .
increased pigmentation of the skin with a netlike  ( reticular )  pattern .
a developmental defect resulting in the congenital absence of skin on the trunk or the limbs .
absence or developmental hypoplasia of the eccrine sweat glands .
the presence of multiple subcutaneous lipoma that cause pain .
the distal and proximal transverse palmar creases are merged into a single transverse palmar crease on both hands .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin ,  or in one or more cavities of the body because of decreased osmotic pressure of plasma  ( hypoproteinemia )  .
naevus flammeus localised in the skin of the neck .
deposition of calcium salts in subcutaneous tissue  ( i .e . ,  the the lowermost layer of the integument )  .
the presence of leiomyoma of the skin .
osteomyelitis of the lower jaw .
a developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal smallness of both eyes .
an acute condition characterized by sudden visual loss  ( usually discovered in the morning )  ,  optic disc edema at onset ,  optic disc - related visual field defects .
a form of colorblindness in which only two of the three fundamental colors can be distinguished due to a lack of one of the retinal cone pigments .
a nonprogressive  ( i .e . ,  stationary )  form of difficulties with night blindness with congenital onset .
tractional retinal detachment at the periphery of the retina .
lack of eyelashes on the lower lid .
congenital abnormality of the extraocular muscles .
a type of cataract with punctate opacities of the lens .
sharply demarcated ,  congenital hyperpigmentation of the retinal pigment epithelium .
a congenital defect of development characterized by absence of the lacrimal gland .
opacity of the entire lens nucleus .
abnormally curly or curved eyelashes .
degenerative changes of the peripheral retina consisting of close - packed tiny cystic spaces at the outer plexiform / inner nuclear retinal level .
an abnormality of the vestibulo - ocular reflex  ( vor )  .
congenital underdevelopment of the iris .
vitelliform maculopathy is a sharply demarcated lesion caused by the accumulation of material ,  often lipofuscin in the subretinal space underlying the macula .
narrowing of a tear duct  ( lacrimal duct )  .
a functional abnormality of the pupil .
a unilateral form of ptosis .
absence of the combined rod - and - cone response on electroretinogram .
an abnormality of the reflex that controls the diameter of the pupil ,  in response to the intensity of light that falls on the retina of the eye .
underdevelopment of the lower eyelid .
abnormal development  ( dysgenesis )  of the anterior segment of the eye globe .
sudden - onset episode of abnormal ,  involuntary eye movements .
absence of the crystalline lens of the eye as a result of a developmental defect .
a malignant melanoma originating within the eye .
a chronic irritative conjunctivitis ,  which commonly presents with general irritation and redness of the eyes ,  with a burning ,  dry ,  or foreign - body sensation of the eyes .
cornea plana is an abnormally flat shape of the cornea such that the normal protrusion of the cornea from the sclera is missing .
presence of multiple dilatations  ( sac - like outpouchings )  in the blood vessels of the conjunctiva .
atrophy  ( loss or wasting )  of the retinal pigment epithelium observed on fundoscopy or fundus imaging .
lack of transparency of the corneal epithelium .
abnormal  ( non - physiological )  constriction of the pupil of congenital onset .
an abnormal reduction in the amount of pigmentation of the iris .
abnormal development of the choroid and retina .
underdevelopment of the lacrimal gland .
abnormally big lacrimal glands .
pigment migration into the retina in a bone - spicule configuration  ( resembling the nucleated cells within the lacuna of bone )  .
underdevelopment of the fovea centralis .
macular dystrophy is a nonspecific term for premature retinal cell aging and cell death ,  generally confied to the macula in which no clear extrinsic cause is evident .
reduced transparency of the stroma of cornea .
a scotoma  ( area of diminished vision within the visual field )  that surrounds the central fixation point .
dilatation of small blood vessels of the retina .
increased depth of the anterior chamber ,  i .e . ,  the anteroposterior distance between the cornea and the iris is increased .
underdevelopment of the optic disc ,  that is of the optic nerve head ,  where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve .
the presence of an increased number of twists and turns of retinal blood vessels  ( arteries ,  arterioles ,  veins ,  venules )  .
an impairment of the ability to track objects with the ocular smooth pursuit system ,  a class of rather slow eye movements that minimizes retinal target motion .
ocular abnormality characterised by premature degeneration of the vitreous and the retina that may be associated with increased risk of retinal detachment .
underdevelopment of the ciliary body .
fibrous connective tissue resulting from incomplete healing of a wound  ( i .e . ,  a scar )  located in the choroid and retina or the eye .
a type of retinal neovascularization that affects the posterior pole of the retina .
a type of cataract characterized by punctate ,  dust - like opacities within the cortical region of the lens .
a type of cataract affecting the posterior pole of lens immediately adjacent to  ( 'beneath' )  the lens capsule .
wasting  ( atrophy )  of the retinal pigment epithelium present in small ,  isolated areas .
mottled  ( spotted or blotched with different shades )  pigmentary abnormality of the macula lutea .
a cataract that affects the anterior part of the cortex of the lens .
the presence of whitish deposits in the conjunctiva resembling salt .
abnormal largeness of the eye with an axial length  >  2 .5 standard deviations from population mean .
the presence of central ,  fine ,  whitish granular lesions in the stroma of the cornea .
complete color blindness ,  a complete inability to distinguish colors .
nystagmus consisting of horizontal to - and - fro eye movements of equal velocity .
the presence of one or more dendritic corneal epithelial ulcers characterized by a treelike branching linear pattern with feathery edges and terminal bulbs .
a form of uveitis that is not associated with the formation of granulomas .
mottling  ( spots or blotches with different shades )  of the retinal pigment epithelium ,  i .e . ,  localized or generalized fundal pigment granularity associated with processes at the level of the retinal pigment epithelium .
a supranuclear gaze palsy is an inability to look in a horizontal direction as a result of cerebral impairment .
the presence of distinct colors in the central  ( pupillary )  zone of the iris than in the mid - peripheral  ( ciliary )  zone .
presenile cataract is a kind of cataract that occurs in early adulthood ,  that is ,  at an age that is younger than usual .
congenital absence or closure of the opening of the lacrimal punctum .
paralysis of both the extrinsic and intrinsic ocular muscles .
inability to see well at night or in poor light with onset in adulthood .
nonprogressive restriction of movement of the external ocular muscles such that the eyes of affected individuals are partially or completely fixed in a strabismic position .
a kind of cataract that progresses with age .
a progressive form of ptosis .
increased length of the upper eyelashes .
deposition of hyaline extracellular material  ( amyloid )  into the vitreous humor ,  which can manifest as vitreous opacities and reduced visual acuity .
punctate opacification  ( reduced transparency )  of the corneal stroma .
punched out lesions in the pigmented layer of the retina .
horizontal nystagmus dating from or present at birth .
deposition of calcium salts in the retina .
fibrosis of only some of the external ocular muscles such that the eyes of affected individuals are partially or completely fixed in a strabismic position .
the presence of multiple hemangiomas in the choroid .
a shape created by an acute downward arching of the upper eyelid and upward arching of the lower eyelid ,  toward the medial canthus ,  which gives the outline of the palpebral fissures the configuration of an almond .
blindness with onset at birth .
allergic conjunctivitis is an allergic inflammation of the conjunctiva .
an abnormally slow velocity of horizontal saccadic eye movements .
congenital absence of the extraocular muscles .
a type of posterior subcapsular cataract characterized by an iridescent color .
underdevelopment of the lacrimal puncta .
reduced pigmentation of the fundus ,  typically generalised .
failure of attachment of the retina during development .
bleeding within the vitreous compartment of the eye .
chorioretinal atrophy along the retinal veins .
intraocular pressure that is 2 standard deviations above the population mean .
a type of of patterned retinal dystrophy that shows a reticular pattern of pigmentation .
this corneal dystrophy affects the posterior limiting membrane of the cornea and is characterized by polymorphous plaques of calcium deposits in the deep stromal layers of the cornea ,  and occasionally by vesicular lesions of the endothelium and edema of the deep corneal stroma .
a type of retinal detachment arising due to a combination of contracting retinal membranes ,  abnormal vitreoretinal adhesions ,  and vitreous changes .
a congenital defect resulting in absence of the lacrimal duct .
anomaly of the visual evoked potentials elicited by a flash stimulus ,  generally a flash of light subtending an angle of at least 20 degrees of the visual field and presented in a dimly lit room .
separation of the inner layers of the retina  ( neural retina )  from the pigment epithelium occuring near the outer limit  ( periphery )  of the retina .
congenital abnormal dilation of the pupil on both sides .
regional increase in the width  ( height )  of the lateral eyebrow .
fibrosis of the external ocular muscles such that the eyes of affected individuals are partially or completely fixed in a strabismic position .
a type of retinal reticular pigmentation that forms a polygonal ,  netlike arrangement of hyperpigmented lines forming geometric patterns in the fundus .
a form of monochromacy in which vision is derived from the remaining preserved blue  ( s )  cones and rod photoreceptors .
paralysis of the iris and ciliary apparatus .
a form of stapes ankylosis with congenital onset .
a fixed reduction in the vertical distance between the upper and lower eyelids with short palpebral fissures on one side only .
a subtype of retinitis pigmentosa in which ,  instead of the pathology starting in the mid - periphery like typical retinitis pigmentosa ,  the disease starts in the near periphery closer to the vascular arcades and tends to spare the far periphery .
a type of posterior cortical cataract characterized by dense lenticular opacities .
chorioretinal atrophy concentrated around the optic papilla  ( i .e . ,  the optic nerve head )  .
a reduction of corneal clarity .
a spectrum of fundoscopic appearances characterized by the development of a variety of patterns of deposits predominantly in the macular area .
persistence of the hyaloid artery ,  which is the embryonic artery that runs from the optic disk to the posterior lens capsule may persist ;  the site of attachment may form an opacity .
a congenital cataract in which opacity is limited to layers of the lens external to the nucleus  ( i .e . ,  the perinuclear region )  ,  i .e . ,  between the nuclear and cortical layers of the lens .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the retina .
saccadic undershoot of horizontal saccadic eye movements ,  i .e . ,  a horizontal saccadic eye movement that has less than the magnitude that would be required to gain fixation of the object .
cerulean cataracts are a kind of congenital cataract having peripheral bluish and white opacifications in concentric layers with occasional central lesions arranged radially .
horizontal nystagmus made apparent by looking to the right or to the left .
a dark - adapted bright flash electroretinogram in which the b - wave that is of markedly lower amplitude than the associated a - wave  ( source: holder ge . ,  inherited chorioretinal dystrophies: a textbook and atlas ;  2014 ;  p .17 ;  isbn 978 - 3 - 540 - 69466 - 3 )  .
blockage of retinal arteriole ,  generally associated with interruption of blood flow and oxygen delivery to affected regions of the retina .
decreased amount of pigmentation in the macula lutea .
retinal exudate within the retinal tissue itself .
underdevelopment of the stroma of iris .
congenital malformation of the lacrimal duct associated with incomplete development of the bony nasolacrimal canal or craniofacial anomalies .
loss of peripheral vision with retention of central vision ,  resulting in a constricted circular tunnel - like field of vision .
an abnormally reduced response to stimulation of the cornea  ( by touch ,  foreign body ,  blowing air )  .
increased amount of pigmentation in the fovea centralis .
abnormality of macular or foveal pigmentation .
reduced transparency of the peripheral region of the cornea .
microscopic aneurysms of the retinal arterioles near the central part of the fundus ,  visible as small round dark red dots on the retinal surface  ( not arising from visible vessels )  that are by definition less than the diameter of the major optic veins as they cross the optic disc .
partial dislocation of the lens in a superior direction .
inherited progressive cone degeneration .
a form of macular degeneration characterized by the presence of multiple cysts in the macula .
a type of sutural cataract in which the opacity follows the posterior y suture .
abnormal pigmentation of the iris .
retinitis pigmentosa inversa is form of retinal degeneration characterized by areas of retinal / chorioretinal degeneration with pigment migration in the macular area  ( in contrast to retinitis pigmentosa which ,  at early disease stages ,  predominantly affects the retinal periphery )  .
absence of the anterior chamber of the eye owing to a developmental defect .
absence or underdevelopment of the lacrimal gland .
decreased retinal arteriolar diameters ,  which may decrease blood flow and slow oxygen delivery to regions of the retina .
a structural abnormality of retinal vasculature .
an abnormality of the line of schwalbe .
an abnormality of an extraocular muscle .
an anomaly of the space between the medial and lateral canthi of the two open eyelids .
a wrinkle of retinal tissue projecting outward from the surface of the retina and visible as a line on fundoscopy .
absence or underdevelopment of the iris .
any abnormality of the blood vessels of the conjunctiva .
absence or underdevelopment of the uvea ,  the pigmented middle layer of the eye consisting of the iris and ciliary body together with the choroid .
congenital absence or underdevelopment of the fovea centralis .
absence or underdevelopment of the anterior segment of the eye .
absence or underdevelopment of the lens .
an abnormality of the skin characterized the presence of excessive amounts of dry surface scales on the skin resulting from an abnormality of keratinization .
the presence of one or more bullae on the skin ,  defined as fluid - filled blisters more than 5 mm in diameter with thin walls .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the skin .
reduced density of hairs .
increased blood pressure during a pregnancy .
virilization  ( deepening of voice ,  facial hirsutism and scalp hair loss )  with onset during pregnancy  ( usually towards the end of the first trimester )  and regression several months post - partum .
an abnormally high concentration of serum conjugated estriol as compared to normal values for gestational - age .
the development of pes cavus that is progressive with age .
reduction in bone mineral density affecting any or all of the tarsal bones ,  seven bones of the foot comprising the calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  and the cuneiform bones .
a developmental abnormality characterized by the absence of the fifth metatarsal bone .
medial deviation of the great toe owing to a deformity of the great toe joint causing the hallux to deviate medially .
an outward deviation of the foot at the talocalcaneal or subtalar joint .
the presence of a fifth metatarsal bone that has not undergone ossification at an age when ossification is usually visible .
an anomaly of the fifth metatarsal bone .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the fourth toe .
an overall widening of the spaces between the digits .
osteolysis affecting the talus .
medial deviation of the second toe .
delayed maturation and calcification of any of the tarsal bones ,  seven bones of the foot comprising the calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  and the cuneiform bones .
the presence of unusually deep creases  ( ridges / wrinkles )  on the skin of sole of foot located between the first and second toe .
precocious  ( accelerated )  maturation and calcification of any of the tarsal bones ,  seven bones of the foot comprising the calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  and the cuneiform bones .
osteosclerosis of the endosteal surface of the diaphyses  ( shafts )  of the metatarsal bones .
bending or curvature of a third toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
limitation of the ability to bend the toes .
synostosis of the calcaneus with the navicular bone .
a congenital deformity characterized by a dorsiflexed ,  inverted ,  and adducted foot ,  i .e . ,  a combination of talipes calcaneus and talipes varus .
a two - part calcaneus ,  a finding that probably results from delayed coalescence of two primary calcaneal centers of ossification .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in one or more tarsal bones .
defective ossification in an irregular pattern of the seven bones of the foot comprising the calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  and the cuneiform bones .
abnormal plantar flexion of the calcaneus relative to the longitudinal axis of the tibia .
delayed maturation and calcification of the calcaneus .
abnormal response to epinephrine as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of epinephrine .
elevations of the levels of sgot  ( serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase )  and sgpt  ( serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase )  that occur during infections .
increased time to coagulation in the prothrombin time test ,  which is a measure of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
episodes of muscle weakness associated with reduced levels of potassium in the blood .
excessive amounts of mucopolysaccharide in the urine .
hyperapobetalipoproteinemia is defined as the combination of a normal low density lipoprotein  ( ldl )  cholesterol in the face of an increased ldl apolipoprotein b  ( apob )  protein .
an increase in the level of 3 - hydroxydicarboxylic acid in the urine .
alkaline phosphatase levels measured within leukocytes is below detectable levels .
an increased concentration of ammonia in the blood not associated with symptoms such as encephalopathy .
abnormally reduced concentration of cortisol in the blood .
reduced proportion of helper t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
abnormally decreased rate of beta - galactosidase activity .
reduced activity of coagulation factor vii .
an abnormal reduction in the arden ratio ,  which is the ratio between the light peak and the dark trough of the smoothed  ( physiologic )  eog record .
an absence of low - density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
the onset of puberty before the age of 9 years in boys .
the presence of large polyhedral cells with eosinophilic granular cytoplasm and enlarged nuclei in the adrenal cortex .
no secondary sexual characteristics are present at puberty .
decreased sensitivity toward insulin .
the congenital absence of the thyroid gland .
the presence of multiple pancreatic islet cell adenomas .
deficiency of parathyroid hormone with congenital onset .
a type of hyperparathyroidism caused by a primary abnormality of the parathyroid glands  ( e .g . ,  adenoma ,  carcinoma ,  hyperplasia )  .
a reduced level of prolactin in the blood circulation .
ketosis - resistant diabetes is a synonym for type ii diabetes .
insufficient production of steroid hormones  ( primarily cortisol )  by the adrenal glands as a result of a primary defect in the glands themselves .
hyperplasia of the parathyroid gland .
amenorrhea due to loss of ovarian function before the age of 40 .
aplasia of the parathyroid gland .
a reduced ability to secrete gonadotropins ,  which are protein hormones secreted by gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary gland ,  including the hormones follitropin  ( fsh )  and luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
a reduction below normal concentration of estradiol in the circulation .
abnormal development of the adrenal gland .
enlargement of the adrenal gland .
condition associated with a raised serum concentration of thyroid stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  but a normal serum free thyroxine  ( ft4 )  .
insufficient amount of androgenic activity .
a condition in which the pituitary gland is partially resistant to thyroid hormone ,  so that it continues to secrete thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  until the blood level of thyroid hormone rises higher than normal .
the presence of lymphangiectasis of the thyroid gland .
an elevated concentration of follicle - stimulating hormone in the blood .
an reduced concentration of progesterone in the blood .
a type of hypothyroidism that results from a defect in thyrotropin - releasing hormone activity .
developmental hypoplasia of the adrenal medulla .
a state of renal tubular unresponsiveness or resistance to the action of aldosterone .
a type of adrenal hypoplasia with congenital onset .
a type of hypothyroidism that results from a defect in thyroid - stimulating hormone secretion .
an abnormality of thyroid physiology  ( hp:0002926 )  characterized by increased levels of thyroxine without evidence of clinical thyroid disease .
hyperplasia of the thyroid gland .
an enlargement of the thyroid gland with congenital onset .
adrenocortical adenomas are benign tumors of the adrenal cortex .
a type of adrenal hyperplasia with congenital onset .
adrenal insufficiency secondary to a defect in the acth receptor .
the presence of an adenoma of the pancreas with origin in a pancreatic b cell .
the presence of intracellular inclusion bodies  ( aggregates of stainable substances ,  usually proteins )  in neutrophils .
abnormal morphology of collagen fibers in cartilage .
an abnormality of zinc ion homeostasis .
atrophy  ( wasting )  of the cerebellar cortex .
an increased concentration of ammonia in the blood with sudden onset .
an increased amount of unconjugated  ( indirect )  bilurubin in the blood .
an increased concentration of insulin in the blood in the fasting state ,  i .e . ,  not as the response to food intake .
a partial reduction in level of the complement component factor h in circulation .
a type of pituitary adenoma that produces adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  .
an increase in the level of long - chain dicarboxylic acid in the urine .
a condition of not having consistently high levels of phenylalanine in the blood but of experiencing temporary hyperphenylalaninemia following ingestion of large quantities of phenylalanine  ( for instance ,  following an oral loading test with phenylalanine )  .
an increased concentration of dermatan sulfate in the urine .
degeneration of the olivary bodies ,  prominent oval structures in the medulla oblongata .
presence of myoglobin in the urine following exercise .
an increase in the level of medium chain dicarboxylic acid in the urine .
a reduction in the activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex ii ,  which is part of the electron transport chain in mitochondria .
a decreased concentration of free  ( unbound )  carnitine in the blood .
an abnormality of the mitochondria in muscle tissue .
increased alkaline phosphatase measured within leukocytes .
abnormal response to collagen or collagen - mimetics as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition collagen or collagen - mimetics .
reduced activity of coagulation factor x .
any structural anomaly of the mitochondria .
an abnormality of the combined rod - and - cone response on electroretinogram .
an abnormally decreased concentration of vitamin b6 in the blood circulation .
the presence of microscopic crystalline calcium precipitates in the form of oxalate and / or phosphate in the renal parenchyma .
decreased activity of von willebrand factor .
a partial reduction in level of the complement component factor d in circulation .
an increased urine level of any amino acid carrying two amino groups  ( asparagine ,  glutamine and lysine ,  cystine ,  ornithine )  .
a type of renal tubular acidosis characterized by a failure of acid secretion by the alpha intercalated cells of the cortical collecting duct of the distal nephron .
an increased concentration of a branched chain amino acid in the blood .
underdevelopment of the dilatator pupillae .
a reduction in the activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex iv ,  which is part of the electron transport chain in mitochondria .
a reduction in immunoglobulin levels of the igg2 subclass in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of adhesion of thrombocytes .
the presence of an abnormally increased concentration of neutral amino acids in the urine .
reduced ability to transform factor x into its activated form factor xa .
decreased activity of coagulation factor xiii  ( also known as fibrin stabilizing factor )  .
an increased concentration of proline in the blood .
a neonatal decreased concentration of proteins in the blood .
absence or underdevelopment of the big toe .
absence or underdevelopment of the tarsal bones .
an abnormality of the calcaneus ,  also known as the heel bone ,  one of the or heel bone ,  one of the components of the tarsus of the foot which make up the heel .
an abnormality of the talus .
synostosis  ( bony fusion )  involving one or more bones of the tarsus  ( calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  cuneiiform bones )  .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of any of the tarsal bones ,  seven bones of the foot comprising the calcaneus ,  talus ,  cuboid ,  navicular ,  and the cuneiform bones .
any abnormal process of ossification of the metatarsal bones ,  which normally are each ossified from two centers: one for the body ,  and one for the head  ( metatarsal ii , iii , iv ,  and v )  and one for the body and one for the base  ( metatarsal i )  .
nails whose growth is slower than normal .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the nail .
an anomaly of the toenail .
recurrent loss ,  or shedding ,  of the nails of the fingers and toes .
the presence of misshapen or partially destroyed nail plates ,  often with accumulation of soft ,  yellow keratin between the dystrophic nail plate and nail bed ,  resulting in elevation of the nail plate .
a thickening of the stratum corneum in the region beneath the nails .
chronic infection of the nails by candida species .
a nail of the fifth finger that is diminished in length and width ,  i .e . ,  underdeveloped nail of little finger .
a thickening of the stratum corneum ,  the outer layer of the skin ,  in the region surrounding the nails .
detachment of the distal fingernails from the nail bed .
thickened toenails .
longitudinal ,  linear prominences in the fingernail plate .
onychodystrophy  ( nail dystrophy )  refers to nail changes apart from changes of the color  ( nail dyschromia )  and involves partial or complete disruption of the various keratinous layers of the nail plate .
small ,  underdeveloped vertebral bodies .
the presence of degenerative changes of intervertebral disk .
the presence of punctiform calcification of the bone of the vertebral bodies .
an abnormal shape of the vertebral bodies whereby the vertebral bodies are thick on one side and taper to a thin edge at the other .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the vertebral column .
schisis  ( cleft or cleavage )  of vertebral bodies .
anterior tongue - like protrusions of the vertebral bodies of the lumbar spine .
an abnormality of the shape of the lumbar vertebra l1 such that it is wedge - shaped  ( narrow towards the front )  .
a morphological abnormality of the vertebral arch ,  i .e . ,  of the posterior part of a vertebra .
absence of one half of the vertebral body in the lumbar spine .
any abnormality of the atlas and the axis .
the presence of one or more herniated nucleus pulposus of intervertebral disk .
excessive growth of the bones of the vertebral bodies .
an abnormality of the shape of vertebrae ,  such that they are wedge - shaped  ( narrow towards the back )  .
an abnormal narrowing of the cervical spinal canal .
a reduction of the distance between vertebral pedicles ,  which are the two short ,  thick processes ,  which project backward ,  one on either side ,  from the upper part of the vertebral body ,  at the junction of its posterior and lateral surfaces .
over curvature of the lumbar region .
a developmental defect of the sacrum characterized by partial or disordered development of the sacrum in which portions of the sacrum ,  which normally is formed by fusion of five sacral vertebrae s1 - s5 ,  fail to form or fail to form normally .
a partial dislocation of the intervertebral joint between the second and third cervical vertebrae .
narrowing  ( becoming gradually narrower )  of the distance between vertebral pedicles that gets progressively more severe towards to caudal  ( lower )  end of the vertebral column .
a progressive form of scoliosis with congenital onset .
agenesis of one or more vertebrae of the cervical vertebral column .
a developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies .
absence of one half of the vertebral body in the thoracic spine .
an abnormality related to a defect of vertebral separation of sacral vertebrae during development .
dysplasia of the cervical vertebral column .
a reduction of the distance between the lower thoracic vertebral pedicles .
an abnormal reduction of the anterioposterior diameter of the vertebral body .
decreased ossification of the cervical vertebral bodies ,  i .e . ,  of the cervical vertebrae set .
the presence of arthrosis ,  i .e . ,  of degenerative joint disease ,  affecting the cervical vertebral column .
a reduction of the distance between thoracolumbar vertebral pedicles .
narrowing  ( becoming gradually narrower )  of the distance between lumbar vertebral pedicles that gets progressively more severe towards to caudal  ( lower )  end of the vertebral column .
complete bilateral fractures of the pars interarticularis resulting in the anterior slippage of the fifth lumbar vertebral body  ( l5 )  onto the sacrum  ( level s1 )  .
early closure  ( ossification )  of the anterior fontanelle ,  which generally undergoes closure around the 18th month of life .
partial displacement of the lens in the inferior direction .
a severe form of hypermetropia with over  + 5 .00 diopters .
cleft lip or palate affecting the midline region of the palate .
the presence of a moderate form of sensorineural hearing impairment .
reduced transparency of the central posterior portion of the corneal stroma .
a bilateral type of conductive hearing impairment .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the sacral bone .
any structural abnormality of the coccyx .
permanent indentation on the posteromedial aspect of the helix that may be sharply or indistinctly delineated .
a type of hearing impairment caused by an abnormal functionality of the cochlear nerve with congenital onset .
absence of the acoustic reflex ,  an involuntary contraction of the stapedius muscle that occurs in response to high - intensity sound stimuli .
a type of hearing impairment affecting primarily the low frequencies of sound  ( 125 hz to 1000 hz )  .
underdevelopment of the external ear .
the presence of a malformed cochlea .
complete lack of functioning of the vestibular apparatus .
vestibular areflexia can be measured as the absence of the caloric nystagmus response in electronystagmography .
median longitudinal length of the ear more than two standard deviations below the mean in the presence of some ,  but not all ,  parts of the normal ear .
a malformation of the auricle of the ear .
a form of sensorineural hearing impairment that affects primarily the lower frequencies .
underdevelopment of the helix that either affects the entire helix ,  or is localized .
a condition in which the superior portion of the helix is folded over to a lesser degree than normal .
developmental hypoplasia of the cochlea .
the presence of a mild form of sensorineural hearing impairment .
a type of stenosis of the external auditory meatus in which the opening of the external auditory meatus appears as a vertical slit .
underdevelopment of the helix ,  i .e . ,  of the outer rim of the pinna .
a type of conductive deafness with congenital onset .
increased anterosuperior prominence of the area between the bottom of the incisura and the inner margin of the antihelix .
a form of sensorineural hearing impairment with onset after the acquisition of speech .
a mild form of conductive hearing impairment .
benign congenital lesion of the supraauricular soft tissue consisting of a blind - ending narrow tube or pit .
a progressive type of conductive deafness .
an abnormality of the morphology or structure of the middle ear .
a form of sensorineural hearing impairment with infantile onset .
the presence of sensorineural deafness with late onset .
a bilateral form of sensorineural hearing impairment .
a severe form of sensorineural hearing impairment .
an abnormality of the stapes ,  a stirrup - shaped ossicle in the middle ear .
pulsatile tinnitus is generally classified a kind of objective tinnitus ,  meaning that it is not only audible to the patient but also to the examiner on auscultation of the auditory canal and / or of surrounding structures with use of an auscultation tube or stethoscope .
a developmental anomaly of the ureter .
absence of sex glands  ( gonads are the organs that produce gametes ;  testis in males and ovary in females )  .
abnormal enlargement of the urinary bladder .
presence of persistent islands of renal blastema in the postnatal kidney .
impotence  ( inability to develop or maintain an erection )  resulting from abnormal functioning of the autonomic nervous system .
a type of extracapillary glomerulonephritis characterized by the formation of crescent - like cellular proliferation .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the fallopian tube .
the presence of many cysts in the medulla of the kidney .
a developmental defect characterized by absence or poor development of proximal renal tubules .
abnormal narrowing of the urethra .
a sarcoma of the kidney .
hypertrophy of the clitoris .
unusual gonadal development in a person with a 46 , xy male karyotype ,  leading to an unassigned sex differentiation .
incomplete maturation or aberrant formation of the male gametes .
the presence of calcium -  and oxalate - containing calculi  ( stones )  in the kidneys .
a developmental disturbance with extreme ureteral dilatation .
nephrotic syndrome with onset within the first three months of life .
absence or underdevelopment of the kidney .
coagulative necrosis of tubular epithelial cells ,  defined as cells with increased cytoplasmic eosinophilia and nucleus that has a condensed chromatin pattern with fuzzy nuclear contour or has barely visible nuclear basophilic staining .
increase in size of the folds of skin between the outer labia .
absence or developmental hypoplasia of the uterus .
absence of both testes from the scrotum owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum .
presence of a single diverticulum  ( sac or pouch )  in the wall of the urinary bladder .
a disordered proliferation of mature tissues that are native to the kidneys .
developmental hypoplasia of the fallopian tube .
deposition of calcium salts in gonadal tissue .
congenital absence of the scrotum .
the presence of non - malignant hyperplasia of the prostate .
the presence of a fistula between the vagina and the urethra .
a unilateral form of atrophy of the kidney .
a unilateral form of developmental dysplasia of the kidney .
the presence of a diverticulum  ( sac or pouch )  in the wall of the urethra .
unusual gonadal development in a person with a 46 , xy male karyotype ,  leading to a more female sex differentiation .
developmental hypoplasia of the ovary .
developmental hypoplasia of the vagina .
the presence of female external genitalia in a person with a male karyotype .
renal hypophosphatemia is defined as reduced serum phosphate  ( e .g . ,  below 0 .70 mmol / l )  and an inappropriately high renal phosphate excretion .
reduced volume of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
the presence of a partially duplicated kidney .
the presence of a longitudinal vaginal septum ,  thereby creating a vaginal duplication .
a mild form of hypospadias in which the urethra opens just under the corona glandis .
an abnormality of the aryepiglottic fold .
ossification affecting the set of cartilages of larynx .
underdevelopment of the larynx .
congenital absence of the lumen of the larynx .
presence of a gap in the posterior laryngotracheal wall with a continuity between the larynx and the esopahagus .
a malformation of the laryngeal cartilage .
absence of the epiglottis .
calcification  ( abnormal deposits of calcium )  in the laryngeal tissues .
bowing  ( abnormal curvature )  of the vocal folds .
a loss of the ability to move the vocal fold on one side .
the presence of one or more obsessive - compulsive personality traits .
the presence of aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the ear .
the presence of aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of all or part of the external ear .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of all or part of the middle ear .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the inner ear .
an abnormality of the prostate .
any structural abnormality of the renal artery .
an abnormality of the vocal cord .
increased width of the proximal part of the shaft  ( metaphysis )  of the femur .
abnormally wide morphology of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
delayed maturation and calcification of the rami  ( branches )  of the pubic bone .
irregularities of the iliac crest that produce the appearance of a lace border around it .
delayed maturation and calcification of the pubic bone .
a cone - shaped deformity of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
developmental acceleration of ossification of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
the sacroiliac joint in the bony pelvis connects the sacrum and the ilium of the pelvis ,  which are joined by strong ligaments .
a decreased ability to move the femur at the hip joint associated with a decreased range of motion of the hip .
underdevelopment of the lesser trochanter .
underdevelopment of the femoral head .
increased width of the femoral head .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the acetabular part of hip bone .
increased height of the wing  ( or ala )  of the ilium  ( which is the large expanded portion which bounds the greater pelvis laterally )  .
an abnormally flattened femoral head .
increased size of the ilium ala .
an abnormally reduced diameter of the femoral neck  ( which is the process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft )  .
lack of ossification of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
underdevelopment of the ischiopubic ramus ,  which is comprised of the inferior pubic ramus and the inferior ramus of the ischium .
underdevelopment of the body of ilium .
joint dislocation of the femoral head .
developmental delay of ossification of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
delayed ossification of the femoral head .
there is normally one ossification center in the head of the femur .
underdevelopment of the bony pelvis .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by disproportionate shortening of the medial parts of the extremities  ( forearm or lower leg )  .
intrauterine growth retardation that is 4 or more standard deviations below average ,  corrected for sex and gestational age .
a moderate degree of short stature ,  more than  - 3 sd but not more than  - 4 sd from mean corrected for age and sex .
severely slow or limited growth after birth ,  being four standard deviations or more below age -  and sex - related norms .
a moderate degree of slow or limited growth after birth ,  being between three and four standard deviations below age -  and sex - related norms .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs with congenital onset recognizable at birth .
insufficient weight gain or inappropriate weight loss for a child ,  that is attributed to an endogenous recurrent infections .
impaired feeding performance of an infant as manifested by difficulties such as weak and ineffective sucking ,  brief bursts of sucking ,  and falling asleep during sucking .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short limbs but an average - sized trunk .
intrauterine growth retardation that is at least 2 standard deviations  ( sd )  below average ,  but not as low as 3 sd ,  corrected for sex and gestational age .
a loss of adipose tissue .
slow or limited growth after birth .
disproportionate shortening of the proximal segment of limbs  ( i .e .
truncal obesity with onset during childhood ,  defined as between 2 and 10 years of age .
a type of short - limbed dwarfism that is manifest beginning in the neonatal period .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs with onset in childhood .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  manifesting in the neonatal period and affecting the entire musculature .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  affecting the musculature of the trunk .
a generalized form of lymphadenopathy .
an acute form of rhabdomyolysis .
muscular atrophy of distal leg muscles .
atrophy of the muscles of the pelvic girdle  ( also known as hip girdle )  ,  i .e . ,  the gluteal muscles ,  the lateral rotators ,  the adductors ,  the psoas major and the iliacus muscle .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  manifesting in infancy .
muscular atrophy affecting proximally located muscles of the arms .
underdevelopment of muscles of the shoulder .
underdevelopment of the pectoralis major .
atrophy of the intrinsic muscle groups of the hand ,  comprising the thenar and hypothenar muscles ;  the interossei muscles ;  and the lumbrical muscles .
progressive muscular atrophy affecting muscles in the distal portions of the extremities .
muscular atrophy affecting proximally located muscles of the legs ,  i .e . ,  of the thigh .
reduced strength of the distal musculature of the arms .
underdevelopment of the muscuklature of the calf .
muscle weakness affecting the tibialis anterior muscle .
muscular atrophy that does not display a progression in severity with time .
a type of muscle stiffness that occurs following physical exertion .
muscle hypertrophy primarily affecting the legs .
decreased activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the calf muscles .
underdevelopment of muscles of the neck .
an abnormal increase in the amount of intramuscular fat tissue .
congenital lack ,  i .e . ,  aplasia of the diaphragm .
muscular atrophy affecting the muscles that attach to the pelvic girdle  ( the gluteal muscles ,  the lateral rotators ,  adductor magnus ,  adductor brevis ,  adductor longus ,  pectineus ,  and gracilis muscles )  .
sudden and involuntary contractions of one or more muscles of the leg brought on by physical exertion .
an abnormal increase in the amount of intraabdominal fat tissue .
a lack of strength of the proximal muscles of the legs .
a lack of strength of the proximal muscles of the arms .
underdevelopment of the pectoral muscle .
loss  ( reduction of previously present )  of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the region of the trunk .
the presence of an abnormally increased amount of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the trunk of the body .
underdevelopment of the musculature .
underdevelopment of the biceps muscle .
underdevelopment of the serratus anterior muscle ,  which is involved in abduction ,  upward rotation ,  and elevation of the scapula .
underdevelopment of muscles of the arm .
loss  ( reduction of previously present )  of subcutaneous adipose tissue in the gluteal region .
an abnormally increased tendency towards muscle fatigue induced by physical exercise .
decreased strength of the abdominal musculature .
the presence of an abnormally increased amount of connective tissue .
underdevelopment of the latissimus dorsi muscle ,  which is involved in adduction ,  extension ,  internal rotation ,  and transverse extension of the shoulder and assists in movement of the scapula .
weakness of the muscles responsible for dorsiflexion of the foot ,  that is ,  of the movement of the toes towards the shin .
generalized weakness of the muscles of the arms and legs .
atrophy of the muscles of the ankle .
severe hypertrophy  ( increase in size )  of muscle cells .
rhabdomyolysis induced by exercise .
reduced ability to run .
atrophy of the peroneous muscles ,  peroneus longus  ( also known as fibularis longus )  ,  peroneus brevis  ( also known as fibularis brevis ,  and peroneus tertius  ( also known as fibularis tertius )  .
muscular atrophy involving the quadriceps muscle .
an increased amount of glycogen in muscle tissue .
reduced strength of the distal musculature of the legs .
generalized  ( unlocalized )  atrophy affecting muscles of the limbs in both proximal and distal locations .
an abnormal accumulation of lipids in skeletal muscle .
atrophy of the muscles that are responsible for moving the scapula ,  which are the levator scapulae ,  the infraspinatus muscle ,  the teres major ,  the teres minor ,  and the supraspinatus muscle .
muscular hypotonia  ( abnormally low muscle tone )  affecting the musculature of the trunk and with onset in infancy .
progressively reduced strength of the distal musculature .
generalized degenerative changes of the fat tissue .
progressive spinal muscular atrophy ,  i .e . ,  muscular weakness and atrophy related to loss of the motor neurons of the spinal cord and brainstem .
chronic muscle inflammation accompanied by muscle weakness .
decreased intensity of the achilles reflex  ( also known as the ankle jerk reflex )  ,  which can be elicited by tapping the tendon is tapped while the foot is dorsiflexed .
lack of strength of the proximal muscles that becomes progressively more severe .
increased width of the alveolar ridges .
impairment in the physical production of speech sounds .
chronic accumulation and overgrowth of the fungus candida albicans on the mucous membranes of the mouth ,  generally manifested as associated with creamy white lesions on the tongue or inner cheeks ,  occasionally spreading to the gums ,  tonsils ,  palate or oropharynx .
cleft palate of the midline of the palate .
a cleft of the lip with overlying mucous membrane .
a type of malocclusion in which there is a gap between the anterior teeth  ( incisors )  .
absence or underdevelopment of the pubic bone .
abnormal ossification  ( bone tissue formation )  affecting the pubic bone ,  also known as the pubis .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of any bone of the bony pelvis .
interruption of the innervation of the diaphragm .
a congenital failure of muscular development of part or all of one or both hemidiaphragms ,  resulting in superior displacement of abdominal viscera and altered lung development .
congenital absence of the left half of the diaphragm .
a decrease in the strength of the diaphragm .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of one or more components of the skeleton .
absence or underdevelopment of the maxilla .
absence or underdevelopment of the mandible .
absence or underdevelopment of frontal sinus .
absence or underdevelopment of a cranial sinus or sinuses .
an abnormality of the axial skeleton ,  which comprises the skull ,  the vertebral column ,  the ribs and the sternum .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of bones of the axial skeleton .
an abnormality of adipose tissue ,  which is loose connective tissue composed of adipocytes .
degenerative changes of the fat tissue .
an increase in adipose tissue mass by hyperplastic growth  ( increase in the number of adipocytes )  or by hypertrophic growth  ( increase in the size of adipocytes occurring primarily by lipid accumulation within the cell )  .
muscular atrophy involving the muscles of the upper limbs .
muscular atrophy involving the muscles of the hand .
a disease or lesion affecting the muscles of the thorax .
this term applies to all changes in bone mineral density of the tarsal bones ,  which  ( depending on severity )  can be seen on x - rays as a change in density and or structure of the bone .
an abnormal union between bones or parts of bones lower limbs .
any structural anomaly of a cerebral artery .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the little finger of the hand .
abnormality of the proximal phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the proximal ,  middle ,  and distal phalanges of the 5th finger .
abnormality of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the fifth finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the little finger of the hand .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the little finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the little finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
absence or underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the middle phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
absence of the middle phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
increased width of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the metacarpals .
abnormality of the phalanges of the 4th  ( ring )  finger .
curved appearance of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the proximal ,  middle ,  and distal phalanges of the 4th finger .
patchy increase in bone density of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
fusion of the proximal and middle phalanges of the 5th finger .
fusion of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger with another bone .
displacement of the 5th finger from its normal position .
displacement of the 5th finger towards the ulnar side .
triangular shaped middle phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
chronic loss of joint motion in the 5th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the distal interphalangeal joint of the 5th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
proximal interphalangeal  ( pip )  flexion deformity of the little finger .
chronic loss of joint motion of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the 5th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
an abnormality of the distal phalanx of the fifth finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a secondary ossification center in the distal phalanx of the fifth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
fragmented appearance of the epiphyses of the metacarpals .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphyses of the metacarpals .
sclerosis of the epiphyses of the metacarpals ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
absence or underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the proximal phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
a pseudoepiphysis is a secondary ossification center distinct from the normal epiphysis .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses located at the distal end of the metacarpals in respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the metacarpals .
absence of the epiphyses of the metacarpal bones ,  which are normally located at the distal ends of the metacarpals .
an abnormality of the proximal phalanx of the fifth finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
abnormality of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the fifth finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
a secondary ossification center in the proximal phalanx of the fifth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
an abnormality of the middle phalanx of the fifth finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the little finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the little finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the middle phalanx of the fifth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 5th finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the little finger of the hand .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger .
an abnormality of the middle phalanx of the fourth finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the ring finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the ring finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the middle phalanx of the fourth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the ring finger of the hand .
absence of the proximal phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
hypoplastic / small proximal phalanx of the fifth finger .
increased width of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
curved appearance of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
patchy increase in bone density of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger with another bone .
triangular shaped proximal phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the 5th finger with the 5th metacarpal .
rhomboid or triangular shaped 5th  ( little )  finger proximal phalanx .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the fifth finger ,  also known as the little finger .
absent 5th  ( little )  finger .
increased width of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger .
patchy increase in bone density of the distal phalanx of the 5th finger .
fusion of the terminal / distal and middle phalanges of the 5th finger .
triangular shaped distal phalanx of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
absence of the distal phalanx of the little  ( 5th )  finger .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 4th finger .
an abnormality of the distal phalanx of the fourth finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the ring finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 4th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 4th finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 4th finger .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the ring finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the distal phalanx of the fourth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 4th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 4th finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the ring finger of the hand .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger .
an abnormality of the proximal phalanx of the fourth finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the ring finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the ring finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the proximal phalanx of the fourth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the ring finger of the hand .
a small / hypoplastic or absent / aplastic 4th  ( ring )  finger .
displacement of the 4th finger from its normal position .
chronic loss of joint motion in the 4th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the distal interphalangeal joint of the 4th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the proximal interphalangeal joint of the 4th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the 4th finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
displacement of the 4th finger towards the ulnar side  ( i .e . ,  towards the ring finger )  .
displacement of the 4th finger towards the radial side  ( i .e . ,  towards the thumb )  .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the fourth finger ,  also known as the ring finger .
absent 4th finger .
curved appearance of the phalanges of the 4th  ( ring )  finger .
curved appearance of the distal phalanx of the 4th  ( ring )  finger .
curved appearance of the middle phalanx of the 4th  ( ring )  finger .
hypoplastic / small distal phalanx of the fourth finger .
absence of the distal phalanx of the ring  ( 4th )  finger .
increased width of the distal phalanx of the 4th finger .
increased width of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger .
absence of the middle phalanx of the ring  ( 4th )  finger .
hypoplastic / small middle phalanx of the 4th finger ,  also known as the ring finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger .
absence of the proximal phalanx of the ring  ( 4th )  finger .
hypoplastic / small proximal phalanx of the fourth finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the distal phalanx of the 4th finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the distal phalanx of the fourth finger .
fusion of the terminal / distal and middle phalanges of the 4th finger .
triangular shaped distal phalanx of the 4th  ( ring )  finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the middle phalanx of the fourth finger .
fusion of the middle phalanx of the 4th finger with another bone .
triangular shaped middle phalanx of the 4th  ( ring )  finger .
increased width of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the proximal phalanx of the fourth finger .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger with another bone .
triangular shaped proximal phalanx of the 4th  ( ring )  finger .
abnormality of the phalanges of the 3rd  ( middle )  finger .
displacement of the 3rd finger from its normal position .
a small / hypoplastic or absent / aplastic 3rd  ( middle )  finger .
chronic loss of joint motion in the 3rd finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the proximal ,  middle ,  and distal phalanges of the 3rd finger .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger .
an abnormality of the middle phalanx of the third finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the middle phalanx of the third finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger of the hand .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
an abnormality of the distal phalanx of the third finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the distal phalanx of the third finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger of the hand .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
an abnormality of the proximal phalanx of the third finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the proximal phalanx of the third finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger of the hand .
increased width of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
a fifth finger with short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
aplasia / hypoplasia of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
uneven increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
triangular shaped phalanges of the 5th  ( little )  finger .
rhomboid or triangular shaped 5th  ( little )  finger distal phalanx .
aplasia of one or more fingers .
abnormally short finger associated with developmental hypoplasia .
absence of one or more epiphyses of the 5th finger .
an abnormality of the fifth finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphyses of the 5th finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphyses of the 5th finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphyses of the 5th finger .
sclerosis of the epiphyses of the 5th finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the fifth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses of the 5th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the 5th finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the 5th finger of the hand .
absence of one or more epiphyses of the 4th finger .
an abnormality of the fourth finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphyses of the 4th finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the 4th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphyses of the 4th finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphyses of the 4th finger .
sclerosis of the epiphyses of the 4th finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the fourth finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses of the 4th finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the 4th finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the 4th finger of the hand .
increased width of the phalanges of the 4th finger .
a fourth finger with short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
uneven increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the fourth  ( ring )  finger .
triangular shaped phalanges of the 4th finger .
absence of the epiphyses of the 3rd finger .
an abnormality of the third finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphyses of the 3rd finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the 3rd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphyses of the 3rd finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphyses of the 3rd finger .
sclerosis of the epiphyses of the 3rd finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the third finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses of the 3rd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the 3rd finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the 3rd finger of the hand .
increased width of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the distal phalanx of the third finger .
fusion of the terminal / distal and middle phalanges of the 3rd finger .
triangular shaped distal phalanx of the 3rd  ( middle )  finger .
curved appearance of the distal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
absence of the distal phalanx of the middle  ( 3rd )  finger .
increased width of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
curved appearance of the middle phalanx of the 3rd  ( middle )  finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the middle phalanx of the third finger .
fusion of the middle phalanx of the 3rd finger with another bone .
triangular shaped middle phalanx of the 3rd  ( middle )  finger .
absence of the middle phalanx of the middle  ( 3rd )  finger .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the middle phalanx of the third finger .
increased width of the phalanges of the 3rd finger .
a third finger with short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
curved appearance of the phalanges of the 3rd finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the phalanges of the 3rd finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the third finger .
fusion of two or more bones of the 3rd finger .
triangular shaped phalanges of the 3rd finger .
increased width of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
curved appearance of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the proximal phalanx of the third finger .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger with another bone .
triangular shaped proximal phalanx of the 3rd  ( middle )  finger .
absence of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the proximal phalanx of the third finger .
absent 3rd finger .
hypoplastic / small 3rd  ( middle )  finger .
displacement of the 3rd finger towards the radial side  ( i .e . ,  towards the thumb )  .
displacement of the 3rd finger towards the ulnar side  ( i .e . ,  towards the ring finger )  .
displacement of the 2nd  ( index )  finger towards the ulnar side .
bending or curvature of a finger toward the ulnar side  ( i .e . ,  away from the thumb )  .
bending or curvature of a finger toward the radial side  ( i .e . ,  towards the thumb )  .
displacement of the 2nd finger towards the radial side .
displacement of the 2nd finger from its normal position .
chronic loss of joint motion of the distal interphalangeal joint of the 3rd finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the 3rd finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the proximal interphalangeal joint of the 3rd finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
contractures of one ore more joints of the hands meaning chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
fusion of the proximal and middle phalanges of the 4th finger .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the 4th finger with the 4th metacarpal .
fusion of the proximal and middle phalanges of the 3rd finger .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd finger with the 3rd metacarpal .
displacement of the hand or of fingers of the hand from their normal position .
an abnormal position of the hand in which the wrist is bent toward the radius  ( i .e . ,  toward the thumb )  .
divergence of the longitudinal axis of the hand at the wrist in a posterior  ( ulnar )  direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the little finger )  .
absence of the epiphyses of the 2nd finger .
an abnormality of the second finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphyses of the 2nd finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the 2nd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphyses of the 2nd finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphyses of the 2nd finger .
sclerosis of the epiphyses of the 2nd finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the second finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses of the 2nd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the 2nd finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the 2nd finger of the hand .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
an abnormality of the distal phalanx of the second finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the distal phalanx of the second finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger of the hand .
an abnormality of the middle phalanx of the second finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a secondary ossification center in the middle phalanx of the second finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
an abnormality of the proximal phalanx of the second finger in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a secondary ossification center in the proximal phalanx of the second finger that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
absent 2nd  ( index )  finger .
hypoplasia of the second finger ,  also known as the index finger .
chronic loss of joint motion in the 2nd finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the distal interphalangeal joint of the 2nd finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the 2nd finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the proximal interphalangeal joint of the 2nd finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
abnormality of the phalanges of the 2nd  ( index )  finger .
triangular shaped phalanges of the 2nd finger .
a second finger with short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the 2nd finger .
the hairline refers to the outline of hair of the head .
an tongue - like extension of hair towards the cheeks ,  in which hair growth extends in front of the ear to the lateral cheekbones .
underdevelopment of the pharynx .
absence of the tibia .
increased width of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally  .
curved appearance of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the distal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the distal phalanx of the second finger .
fusion of the terminal / distal and middle phalanges of the 2nd finger .
triangular shaped distal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the distal phalanx of the second finger .
increased width of the middle phalanx of the second finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
curved appearance of the middle phalanx of the 2nd finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the middle phalanx of the 2nd finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the middle phalanx of the second finger .
fusion of the middle phalanx of the 2nd finger with another bone .
triangular shaped middle phalanx of the 2nd finger .
absence of the middle phalanx of the index  ( 2nd )  finger .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the middle phalanx of the second finger ,  also known as the index finger .
fusion of the proximal and middle phalanges of the 2nd finger .
increased width of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
curved appearance of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the proximal phalanx of the second finger .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger with another bone .
triangular shaped proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
a vestibular schwannoma  ( also known as acoustic neuroma ,  acoustic neurinoma ,  or acoustic neurilemoma )  is a benign ,  usually slow - growing tumor that develops from the viiith cranial nerve supplying the inner ear .
a bilateral vestibular schwannoma  ( acoustic neurinoma )  .
a unilateral vestibular schwannoma  ( acoustic neurinoma )  .
abnormality of the vestibulocochlear nerve ,  the eighth cranial nerve ,  which is involved in transmitting sound and equilibrium information from the inner ear to the brain .
astrocytoma is a neoplasm of the central nervous system derived from astrocytes .
the presence of a peripheral schwannoma .
a hamartoma  ( a benign ,  focal malformation consisting of a disorganized mixture of cells and tissues )  of the retina .
neurofibromas present in a smaller number than usually seen in neurofibromatosis type 1 .
absence of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the proximal phalanx of the second finger .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd finger with the 2nd metacarpal .
abnormality of one or all of the epiphyses of the proximal ,  and distal phalanges of the thumb and / or the 1st metacarpal .
chronic loss of joint motion in the thumb due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
hypoplastic / small or absent thumb .
a structural anomaly of one or more phalanges of the thumb .
displacement of the thumb from its normal position .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
partail or complete duplication of the first metacarpal bone .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
complete or partial duplication of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
complete or partial duplication of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
this term applies if the proximal phalanx of the thumb is partially duplicated .
complete duplication of the first metacarpal bone .
partial duplication of the first metacarpal bone .
any anomaly of the distal phalanx of thumb .
an anomaly of the shape or form of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
insertion of thumb at a more distal location than normal .
proximal mislocalization of the thumb .
chronic loss of joint motion of the carpometacarpal joint of the thumb due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the metacarpophalangeal joint of the thumb due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
chronic loss of joint motion of the interphalangeal joint of the thumb due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
this term applies if the proximal phalanx of the thumb is either small / hypoplastic or absent .
increased width of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight shape of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
an uneven increase in bone density of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
fusion of a phalanx of the thumb with another bone .
triangular shaped proximal phalanx of the thumb .
absence of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
hypoplastic  ( short )  proximal phalanx of the thumb .
fusion of the proximal phalanx of the thumb with the 1st metacarpal .
increased width of the distal phalanx of thumb .
bullet - shaped phalanx refers to a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight shape of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
an uneven increase in bone density of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
triangular shaped distal phalanx of the thumb .
absence of the distal / terminal phalanx of the thumb .
hypoplastic  ( short )  distal phalanx of the thumb .
an abnormal morphology of one or more phalanges of the thumb ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight shape of a thumb phalanx .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of one or more phalanges of the thumb .
an uneven increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the thumb .
congenital fusion  ( ankylosis )  of the interphalangeal joint of the thumb .
abnormal shape of one or more phalanges of the thumb such that affected phalanges resemble a triangle .
the absence of a phalangeal segment of a thumb .
hypoplastic  ( short )  thumb phalanx .
abnormality of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
this term applies if the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the thumb ,  which is located at the proximal end of the phalanx ,  does not appear in concordance with gender and age dependant norms as seen on x - rays .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
an abnormality of the proximal phalanx of the thumb in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the thumb of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the thumb having multiple bony fragments .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the thumb ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a pseudoepiphysis  ( which is a secondary ossification center distinct from the normal epiphysis )  of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the proximal phalanx of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the thumb of the hand .
absence of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
an abnormality of the distal phalanx of the thumb in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb having multiple bony fragments .
uneven radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
sclerosis of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a pseudoepiphysis  ( which is a secondary ossification center distinct from the normal epiphysis )  of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis located at the proximal end of the distal phalanx of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb .
a triangular appearance of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the thumb of the hand .
absence of one or more epiphyses of the thumb .
an abnormality of the thumb in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphyses of the thumb ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
epiphysis of the thumb having multiple bony fragments .
uneven radiographic opacity of the one or more epiphyses of the thumb .
sclerosis of one or more of the epiphyses of the thumb ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a pseudoepiphysis  ( which is a secondary ossification center distinct from the normal epiphysis )  of one or more phalanges of the thumb .
abnormally small size of one or more of the epiphyses of the thumb with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in one or more of the epiphyses of the thumb .
chronic loss of joint motion in one or more distal interphalangeal joints of the fingers .
an abnormal union between bones or parts of bones of the fingers .
fusion involving two or more metacarpal bones  ( a synostosis of the first metacarpal and the proximal phalanx of the thumb can also be observed ,  note that the first metacarpal bone corresponds to a proximal phalanx )  .
synostosis  ( bony fusion )  involving one or more bones of the carpus  ( scaphoid ,  lunate ,  triquetrum ,  trapezium ,  trapezoid ,  capitate ,  hamate ,  pisiform )  .
fusion of the 1st metacarpal with another bone .
chronic cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  lymphocytosis is defined as the finding ,  in at least two serial csf examinations ,  of more than 5 cells per cubic millimeter .
increased concentration of interferon alpha in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
chilblains ,  also called perniosis ,  are an inflammatory skin condition related to an abnormal vascular response to the cold .
a benign vascular tumor of the retina without any neoplastic characteristics .
a hemangioblastoma of the spinal cord .
an abnormality of the epididymis .
a cystadenoma ,  an epithelial tumor ,  that originates within the head of the epididymis .
small nodular masses which originate in the subependymal region of the lateral ventricles and protrude into the ventricular cavity .
cortical tubers in the brain are hamartomatous lesions typically located at the gray - white matter interface ,  commonly in the frontal and parietal lobes .
a demarcated ,  largely intraventricular tumor in the region of the foramen of monro composed of spindle to large plump or ganglion - like cells with eosinophilic to amphophilic cytoplasm and somewhat pleomorphic nuclei with occasional prominent nucleoli .
hypomelanotic macules  (  \ "ash leaf spots \ " )  are white or lighter patches of skin that may appear anywhere on the body and are caused by a lack of melanin .
the presence of a sebaceous adenoma with origin in the sebum secreting cells of the skin .
a plaque representing a connective - tissue nevus .
the presence of small depressions in the dental enamel .
a lesion located beneath a fingernail or toenail .
the presence of fibromata beneath finger or toenails .
the presence of a neoplasm of the urinary bladder .
the presence of a neoplasm of the kidney .
areas of the retina lacking pigmentation .
a benign or malignant neoplasm  ( tumour )  originating in striated muscle ,  either skeletal muscle or cardiac muscle .
a benign tumor of cardiac striated muscle .
a benign tumor of striated muscle .
the presence of a hamartoma of the cerebrum .
a neurofibroma in which schwann cells proliferate inside the nerve sheath ,  producing an irregularly thickened ,  distorted ,  tortuous structure .
the presence of a glioma ,  which is a neoplasm of the central nervous system originating from a glial cell  ( astrocytes or oligodendrocytes )  .
a glioma originating in the optic nerve or optic chiasm .
neurofibromas originating in the spine .
pseudarthrosis ,  or  \ "false joint \ " of the tibia is the result of a developmental failure in the tibia progressing to spontaneous fracture and subsequent fibrous nonunion .
the presence of pigmented ,  oval and dome - shaped raised hamartomatous nevi of the iris . .
an abnormality of the antihelix .
developmental hypoplasia of the antihelix .
absence of the parotid gland .
nephrosclerosis refers to thickening or scarring  (  \ "sclerosis \ " )  resulting from damage to the renal arterioles ,  also referred to as arteriosclerosis of the kidney arteries .
shoulder joint stiffness is a perceived sensation of tightness in shoulders when attempting to move them after a period of inactivity .
double rows of eyelashes .
an abnormality of the spinal dura mater ,  which is the outermost of the three layers of the meninges surrounding the spinal cord .
presence of arachnoid cysts of the spinal canal extradurally in the epidural space .
abnormally increased thickness of the nasal septum .
abnormally increased hair growth in the lumbosacral region .
increased volume of the earlobe ,  that is ,  abnormally prominent ear lobules .
absence of the pectoralis major muscle .
a bony defect in the skull base .
complete or nearly complete soft tissue fusion of the alveolar ridges .
partial fusion of the upper and lower eyelid margins by single or multiple bands of tissue .
a pterygium  ( or pterygia )  occurring in the popliteal region  ( the back of the knee )  .
a pterygium  ( or pterygia )  in the intercrural  ( groin )  region .
pyramidal skinfold extending from the base to the top of the nails is a rare and distinctive anomaly seen in popliteal pterygia syndrome .
pterygia affecting the neck .
pterygium affecting the elbow .this is a cutaneous web that can lead to severe flexion contracture of the elbow joint .
anterior schisis  ( cleft or cleavage )  of vertebral bodies .
excessive wrinkling of the skin of the face .
chronic pain in the limbs with no clear focal etiology .
columella extending inferior to the level of the nasal base ,  when viewed from the side .
small or missing phalangeal bones of the fingers of the hand .
increased width of the phalanges of the hand .
the presence of short and wide phalanges which taper distally  (  \ "bullet shaped \ " )  .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the phalanges of the hand .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the hand .
fusion of two or more phalangeal bones of the hand .
annular constrictions around the digits ,  limbs ,  or trunk ,  occurring congenitally  ( sometimes causing intrauterine autoamputation )  and also associated with a wide variety of disorders .
the absence of all phalanges of all the digits of a limb and the associated soft tissues .
absent thumb ,  i .e . ,  the absence of both phalanges of a thumb and the associated soft tissues .
hypoplasia  ( congenital reduction in size )  of the thumb .
syndactyly with fusion of toes three and four .
horn - like malformations of the iliac crests with symmetrical bilateral central posterior iliac processes .
a zone of darker pigmentation around the central part of the iris with a roughly cloverleaf or flower shape .
absence or underdevelopment of the biceps muscle .
absence of the biceps muscle .
absence or underdevelopment of the triceps muscle .
absence of the triceps muscle .
absence or underdevelopment involving the musculature of the thigh .
absence or underdevelopment of the quadriceps muscle .
absence of the quadriceps muscle .
the presence of an abscess located around the anus .
a hemisacral defect involving the sacral vertebrae s2 to s5 .
presence of a bifid sacral bone .
the presence of a teratoma .
a type of sacrococcygeal teratoma located anterior to the sacrum and entirely inside the body  ( altman type iv )  .
congenital developmental defect arising from the primitive branchial apparatus .
a congenital fistula in the neck resulting from incomplete closure of a branchial cleft .
a branchial cyst is a remnant of embryonic development resulting from a failure of obliteration of a branchial cleft and consists of a subcutaneous cystic mass .
cholesteatoma is a benign but potentially destructive growth consisting of keratinizing epithelium located in the middle ear and / or mastoid process .
a goiter that is not associated with functional thyroid abnormalities .
the presence of two or more accessory spleens .
maternal diabetes can either be a gestational ,  mostly type 2 diabetes ,  or a type 1 diabetes .
absence of one or more of the phalanges of the hand .
short  ( hypoplastic )  phalanx of finger ,  affecting one or more phalanges .
the presence of a reduced number of teeth as in hypodontia or as in anodontia .
a form of heart failure characterized by reduced cardiac output .
a form of diabetes insipidus caused by failure of the kidneys to respond to vasopressin  ( avp )  .
a structural abnormality of a diaphysis of the arm .
an anomaly of one or more metaphyses of the arms .
an anomaly of the joint that connects the upper and the lower arm .
amelia of one or both upper limbs .
missing or malformed long bones of the upper limbs with the distal parts  ( the hands )  connected to the variably shortened or even absent upper extremity ,  leading to a flipper - like appearance ,  as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the whole limb is missing  ( such as amelia )  ,  or the distal part of a limb is absent  ( peromelia )  .
peromelia affecting only the upper limbs .
absence  ( due to failure to form )  or underdevelopment of the extremities .
leg shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the lower extremity .
amelia of one or both legs .
phocomelia affecting only the lower limbs .
peromelia affecting only the lower limbs .
forearm shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the forearm .
arm shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the upper extremity .
limb shortening because of underdevelopment of one or more bones of the extremities .
congenital absence  ( aplasia )  of one or more limbs .
the distal parts of the limbs are missing leading to a stump formation .
missing or malformed long bones of the extremities with the distal parts  ( such as hands and / or feet )  connected to the variably shortened or even absent extremity ,  leading to a flipper - like appearance ,  as opposed to other forms of limb malformations were either the hole limb is missing  ( such as amelia )  ,  or the distal part of a limb is absent  ( peromelia )  .
peripheral neuropathy is a general term for any disorder of the peripheral nervous system .
a focal lesion of a single peripheral nerve .
any anomaly of distal phalanx of finger .
an anomaly of middle phalanx of finger .
absence or underdevelopment of the distal phalanges .
abnormally wide  ( broad )  distal phalanx of finger .
short and wide distal phalanges that taper distally .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the distal phalanges of the hand .
increased width of the middle phalanx of finger .
any of the middle phalanges with short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the middle phalanges of the hand .
fusion of a middle phalanx of a finger with another bone .
increased width of the proximal phalanges of the finger .
short and wide proximal phalanges that taper distally  .
uneven increase in bone density of the proximal phalanges of the hand .
the presence of cerebellar signs and symptoms such as lack of balance associated with quadrupedal gait  ( locomotion on all four extremities with a 'bear - like' gait with the legs held straight )  .
an abnormality of the cerebral cortex with fewer gyri but with normal cortical thickness .
abnormally wide  ( broad )  distal phalanx of finger of all fingers .
short distance from the end of the finger to the most distal interphalangeal crease or the distal interphalangeal joint flexion point .
this term applies if one or more of the distal phalanges of the hand are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a reduction in diameter of the distal phalanx of finger towards the distal end .
trichorrhexis nodosa is the formation of nodes along the hair shaft through which breakage readily occurs .
an abnormality of hair pigmentation  ( color )  .
abnormality of the growth of secondary sexual hair ,  which normally ensues during puberty .
abnormally increased hair growth with a localized distribution .
distance between the hairline  ( trichion )  and the glabella  ( the most prominent point on the frontal bone above the root of the nose )  ,  in the midline ,  more than two sd above the mean .
flatness of the supraorbital portion of the frontal bones .
complete absence of any auricular structures .
the presence of telangiectasia of the ear .
increased thickness of the external ear .
an abnormality of the crus of the helix ,  which is the horizontal piece of cartilage located outside the ear canal that divides the upper and lower parts of the ear .
an abnormality of the antitragus ,  which is a small tubercle opposite to the tragus of the ear .
an abnormal horizontal axis orientation of the crus of the helix .
developmental hypoplasia of the crus of the helix .
the presence of an abnormally prominent of the crus of the helix .
a unilateral absence of sensory perception of sound .
distortion of the course of the normal folds of the ear and the appearance of supernumerary crura and folds .
a notched form of the helix of the ear .
presence of nodules in the conjunctiva of the eye .
abnormally prominent ear helix .
decreased thickness of the helix of the ear .
absence or underdevelopment of the ear lobes .
attachment of the lobe to the side of the face at the lowest point of the lobe without curving upward .
sharply demarcated ,  typically linear and approximately horizontal ,  indentations in the outer surface of the ear lobe .
an abnormal orientation of the earlobes such that they point out -  and upward .
absence of the middle ear ossicles ,  malleus ,  incus ,  and stapes .
abnormality of the temporal bone of the skull ,  which is situated at the sides and base of the skull roughly underlying the region of the face known as the temple .
an abnormality of the tragus .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the tragus .
cyclopia is a congenital abnormality in which there is only one eye .
the presence of a size difference between the left and right cornea .
anisocoria ,  or unequal pupil size ,  may represent a benign physiologic variant or a manifestation of disease .
the presence of remnants of a fetal membrane that persist as strands of tissue crossing the pupil .
a malposition of the pupil owing to a developmental defect of the iris .
a tumor of the eye originating from cells of the retina .
a dermal melanocytic hamartoma that presents as bluish hyperpigmentation on the face along the first or second branches of the trigeminal nerve .
a condition associated with a limitation of the horizontal ocular movement with retraction of the globe and narrowing of the palpebral fissure on adduction
persistence of the hyaloid artery ,  which is the embryonic artery that runs from the optic disk to the posterior lens capsule may persist ;  the site of attachment may form an opacity .
underdevelopment or absence of the nose or parts thereof .
abnormally increased lacrimation ,  that is ,  excessive tearing  ( watering eye )  .
complete absence of all nasal structures .
increase in bulk of the ala nasi .
an abnormality of the columella .
asymmetry or size difference between the left and right nostril .
increased aperture of the nostril .
the presence of only a single nostril .
slender ,  slit - like aperture of the nostril .
the presence of more than two nostrils .
absence or underdevelopment of the nasal septum .
abnormally narrow nasal septum .
excess facial hair .
lack or loss of the soft tissues between the zygomata and mandible .
absence of the mandible .
lack of symmetry between the left and right mandible .
the presence of an asymmetric mouth .
complete or partial duplication of the phalanges of the thumb .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the thumb .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the thumb .
this term applies if one or more of the phalanges of the 2nd finger are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
partial or complete duplication of the second proximal phalanx of hand .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of index finger .
partial or complete duplication of the middle phalanx of index finger .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of index finger .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of index finger ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
complete duplication of the middle phalanx of index finger .
partial duplication of the middle phalanx of index finger ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
complete duplication of the second proximal phalanx of hand .
partial duplication of the second proximal phalanx of hand ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 2nd finger .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 2nd finger .
this term applies if one or more of the phalanges of the 3rd finger are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 3rd finger .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 3rd finger .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of middle finger .
partial or complete duplication of the middle phalanx of middle finger .
partial or complete duplication of the third proximal phalanx of hand .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of middle finger
complete duplication of the middle phalanx of middle finger .
complete duplication of the third proximal phalanx of hand .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of middle finger ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
partial duplication of the middle phalanx of middle finger ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
partial duplication of the third proximal phalanx of hand ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
this term applies if one or more of the phalanges of the 4th finger are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 4th finger .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 4th finger .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of ring finger .
partial or complete duplication of the middle phalanx of ring finger .
partial or complete duplication of the fourth proximal phalanx of hand .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of ring finger .
complete duplication of the middle phalanx of ring finger .
complete duplication of the fourth proximal phalanx of hand .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of ring finger ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
partial duplication of the middle phalanx of ring finger ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
partial duplication of the fourth proximal phalanx of hand ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
this term applies if one or more of the phalanges of the 5th finger are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the 5th finger .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of little finger .
partial or complete duplication of the fifth middle phalanx of hand .
partial or complete duplication of the fifth proximal phalanx of hand .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of little finger .
complete duplication of the fifth middle phalanx of hand .
complete duplication of the fifth proximal phalanx of hand .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of little finger ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
partial duplication of the fifth middle phalanx of hand ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
partial or complete duplication of the fifth proximal phalanx of hand ,  seen on x - rays as a broad and / or bifid phalanx .
this term applies if one or more of the phalanges of the hand are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the phalanges of the hand .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the phalanges of the hand .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the proximal phalanges of the hand .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the distal phalanges of the hand .
a complete duplication affecting one or more of the middle phalanges of the hand .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the proximal phalanges of the hand .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the distal phalanges of the hand .
a partial duplication ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance ,  affecting one or more of the middle phalanges of the hand .
this term applies if one or more of the proximal phalanges of the hand are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
this term applies if one or more of the middle phalanges of the hand are either partially duplicated ,  depending on severity leading to a broad or bifid appearance of the phalanges ,  or completely duplicated .
a structural anomaly of the first metacarpal .
any abnormality of the second metacarpal bone .
any abnormality of the third metacarpal bone .
any abnormality of the fourth metacarpal bone .
any abnormality of the fifth metacarpal bone .
in contrast to the metacarpals 2 - 5 ,  the first metacarpal is embryologically of phalangeal origin and as such equivalent to the proximal phalanges of the digits 2 - 5  ( whereas the proximal phalanx of the thumb is equivalent to the middle phalanges of the other digits )  .
an epiphysis that curves around from its transverse orientation to a longitudinal one from proximal to distal along one side of the phalanx ,  thus resembling the letter 'c' and forming a bracket around the diaphysis .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphysis of the 1st metacarpal ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the 1st metacarpal with respect to age - dependent norms .
epiphysis of the 1st metacarpal having multiple bony fragments .
uneven radiographic opacity of the epiphysis of the 1st metacarpal .
the epiphysis of the 1st metacarpal are hard and dense like ivory .
the epiphysis of the first metacarpal is localized at the proximal end of the metacarpal bone although an accessory epiphysis may be located at the distal end of the metacarpal .
abnormally small size of the epiphysis of the 1st metacarpal with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the first metacarpal bone .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the 1st metacarpal .
increased width of the 1st metacarpal .
the presence of short and wide 1st metacarpal which tapers distally  (  \ "bullet shaped \ " )  .
a deviation from the normal straight shape of the first metacarpal .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the 1st metacarpal .
uneven increase in bone density within the 1st metacarpal .
this term applies to a triangular shaped 1st metacarpal .
a developmental defect characterized by reduced length of the first metacarpal  ( long bone )  of the hand .
absent first metacarpal  ( long bone )  of the hand .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the 2nd metacarpal .
absence of the second long bone of the hand .
short second metacarpal bone because of developmental hypoplasia .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the 3rd metacarpal .
absence of the third long bone of the hand .
short third metacarpal bone .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the 4th metacarpal .
absence of the fourth long bone of the hand .
short fourth metacarpal bone .
aplasia or hypoplasia affecting the 5th metacarpal .
absence of the fifth long bone of the hand .
short fifth metacarpal bone .
developmental defect associated with absence of one or more metacarpal bones .
diminished length of one or more metacarpal bones in relation to the others of the same hand or to the contralateral metacarpal .
displacement of the big toe from its normal position .
an abnormal shape or form of the proximal phalanx of the big toe .
an anomaly of the first metatarsal bone .
visible increase in width of the hallux without an increase in the dorso - ventral dimension .
an increase in width in one or more phalanges of the big toe .
an abnormal morphology of one or more phalanges of the big toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of one or more phalanges of the big toe .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more phalanges of the big toe .
partial or complete duplication of one or more phalanx of big toe .
absence or underdevelopment of the first metatarsal bone .
increased side - to - side width of the first metatarsal bone .
an abnormal morphology of the firstmetatarsal bone ,  which is short and wide and tapers distally ,  and lacks the normal diaphyseal constriction .
a deviation from the normal straight shape of a proximal phalanx of the 1st metatarsal bone .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the first metatarsal .
a developmental defect consisting in the duplication of the first metatarsal bone .
an increase in width of the distal phalanx of the big toe .
an abnormal morphology of the distal phalanx of the big toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the distal phalanx of the big toe .
increased width of proximal phalanx of big toe .
an abnormal morphology of the proximal phalanx of the big toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the proximal phalanx of the big toe .
partial or complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of big toe .
complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of big toe .
partial duplication of the proximal phalanx of big toe .
a developmental defect consisting in the complete duplication of the first metatarsal bone .
a developmental defect consisting in the duplication of part of the first metatarsal bone .
complete duplication of one or more phalanx of big toe .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the distal phalanx of big toe .
a developmental defect characterized by the absence of the first metatarsal bone .
short first metatarsal bone .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the proximal phalanx of big toe .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the big toe .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of a phalanx of big toe .
the presence of a supernumerary toe  ( not a hallux )  involving the third or fourth metatarsal with associated osseous syndactyly .
failure to form  ( agenesis )  of one or more epiphyses of the big toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the hallux .
in contrast to the metatarsals 2 - 5 ,  the first metatarsal is embryologically of phalangeal origin and as such equivalent to the proximal phalanges of the digits 2 - 5 ,  whereas the proximal phalanx of the big toe is equivalent to the middle phalanges of the other digits .
in contrast to the metatarsals 2 - 5 ,  the first metatarsal is embryologically of phalangeal origin and as such equivalent to the proximal phalanges of the digits 2 - 5 ,  whereas the proximal phalanx of the big toe is equivalent to the middle phalanges of the other digits .
failure to form  ( agenesis )  of the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the hallux .
the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the hallux surrounds the diaphysis ,  having a bracket - like form .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the proximal phalanx of the hallux .
failure to form  ( agenesis )  of the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the hallux .
the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the hallux surrounds the diaphysis ,  having a bracket - like form .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the distal phalanx of the hallux .
failure to form  ( agenesis )  of the epiphysis of the 1st metatarsal .
the epiphysis of the 1st metatarsal surrounds the diaphysis ,  having a bracket - like form .
a conical  ( cone - shaped )  appearance of the epiphysis of the first metatarsal of the foot .
the epiphysis of the 1st metatarsal are hard and dense like ivory .
absence of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the toes .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of phalanges of the toes .
increased width of phalanx of one or more toes .
an abnormal morphology of one or more phalanges of the toes ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of one or more toe phalanges .
uneven  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the foot .
partial / complete duplication of one or more phalanx of toe .
a morphological anomaly of one or more proximal phalanges of one or more toes .
absence or underdevelopment of the distal phalanges of the toes .
increased width of the distal phalanx of toe of one or more toes .
an abnormal morphology of one or more distal phalanges of the toes ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of one or more distal toe phalanges .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the distal phalanges of the toes .
a partial or complete duplication of one or more distal phalanx of toe .
an abnormal morphology of one or more middle phalanges of the toes ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of one or more middle toe phalanges .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the middle phalanges of the toes .
partial or complete duplication of a middle phalanx of toe .
absence  ( agenesis )  or underdevelopment of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the toes .
an increase in width of one ore more proximal toe phalanges .
an abnormal morphology of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the toes ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight shape of a proximal phalanx of one or more toes .
dissolution or degeneration of bone tissue of the proximal toe phalanx .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the toes .
partial / complete duplication of a proximal phalanx of toe .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  joints of the first  ( big )  toe that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
chronic loss of joint motion in the tarsometatarsal joint of the hallux due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
the interphalangeal joint of the big toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the joint between the first metatarsal and the proximal phalanx of the first  ( big )  toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
a foot deformity resulting due to an abnormality affecting the bones of the foot  ( as well as muscle and soft tissue )  .
any abnormality of the epiphysis of the second metacarpal bone .
any abnormality of the epiphysis of the third metacarpal bone .
the normal epiphysis of the third metacarpal is localised at the distal end of the metacarpal bone .
any abnormality of the epiphysis of the 4th metacarpal bone .
the normal epiphysis of the fourth metacarpal is localised at the distal end of the metacarpal bone .
any abnormality of the epiphysis of the fifth metacarpal bone .
the normal epiphysis of the fifth metacarpal is localised at the distal end of the metacarpal bone .
absence of one or more epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers .
bracket epiphysis refers to an abnormality in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
a cone - shaped appearance of the epiphyses of the fingers of the hand ,  producing a 'ball - in - a - socket' appearance .
abnormally large size of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers with respect to age - dependent norms .
fragmented appearance of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers .
irregular radiographic opacity of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers .
sclerosis of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
a secondary ossification center in the phalanges of the hand that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
abnormally small size of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers with respect to age - dependent norms .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of phalanges of the fingers .
a triangular appearance of the epiphyses of the phalanges of the fingers of the hand .
absence of one or more middle phalanx of a finger .
congenital hypoplasia of one or more proximal phalanx of finger .
any anomaly of distal epiphysis of phalanx of finger .
an abnormality of the distal phalanges of the hand in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
distal epiphyses of the hand are hard and dense like ivory .
a secondary ossification center in the distal phalanges of the hand that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
an abnormality of the middle phalanges of the hand in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
fragmented appearance of the epiphyses of the middle phalanges of the hand .
epiphyses of the middle phalanges of the hand are hard and dense like ivory .
a secondary ossification center in the middle phalanges of the hand that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
an abnormality of the proximal phalanges of the hand in which the epiphysis surrounds a phalangeal bone ,  having a bracket - like form and reaching from the proximal side of a phalanx to the distal side .
epiphyses of the proximal phalanges of the hand are hard and dense like ivory .
a secondary ossification center in the proximal phalanges of the hand that is distinct from the normal epiphysis that does not contribute to the longitudinal growth of a tubular bone .
stomatitis is an inflammation of the mucous membranes of any of the structures in the mouth .
a gap in the lower lip .
height of the vermilion of the medial part of the lower lip more than 2 sd below the mean .
increased pigmentation ,  either focal or generalized ,  of the mucosa of the mouth .
fibrous band between the mucosal surfaces of the upper and lower alveolar ridges .
any abnormality of the salivary glands ,  the exocrine glands that produce saliva .
any abnormality of the submandibular glands ,  which are the salivary glands that are located beneath the floor of the mouth ,  superior to the digastric muscles .
any abnormality of the sublingual glands ,  which are the salivary glands that are located beneath the floor of the mouth anterior to the submandibular glands .
a gap  ( cleft )  affecting one of the alveolar ridges ,  which are the protuberances in the mouth that contain the sockets  ( alveoli )  of the teeth .
distance between the labial point of the incisive papilla to the midline junction of the hard and soft palate more than 2 sd below the mean  ( objective )  or apparently decreased length of the hard palate  ( subjective )  .
increased size and / or number of soft tissue folds on the palatal side of the maxillary alveolar ridge .
lack of the uvula .
underdevelopment or absence of the uvula .
a fistula which connects the oral cavity and the pharyngeal area via the aspects of the soft palate .
absence or underdevelopment of the tongue .
short or anteriorly attached lingual frenulum ,  associated with limited mobility of the tongue .
tongue with a median apical indentation or fork .
glossy appearance of the entire tongue surface .
any abnormality of dentin .
an abnormally low - pitched voice .
a heterogeneous group of congenital spinal anomalies that result from defective closure of the neural tube early in fetal life .
a neoplasm affecting the spinal cord .
any abnormality of the spinal meninges ,  the system of membranes  ( dura mater ,  the arachnoid mater ,  and the pia mater )  which envelops the spinal cord .
an outpouching of the spinal meninges .
absence  ( aplasia )  of the sacrum .
reduced inferior to superior extent of the thorax .
stridor is a high pitched sound resulting from turbulent air flow in the upper airway .
the congenital absence of the sternum .
the sternal cleft is a rare congenital anomaly resulting from a fusion failure of the sternum .
accumulation of excessive amounts of lymphatic fluid  ( chyle )  in the pleural cavity .
absence or underdevelopment of the breasts .
the presence of asymmetrical breasts .
the presence of hypertrophy of the breast .
premature development of the breasts .
absence or underdevelopment of the diaphragm .
ebstein's anomaly refers to an abnormally placed and deformed tricuspid valve characterized by apical displacement of the septal and posterior tricuspid valve leaflets ,  leading to atrialization of the right ventricle with a variable degree of malformation and displacement of the anterior leaflet .
absence of the scapulae .
absence or underdevelopment of the abdominal musculature .
an anomaly of the second toe .
an anomaly of the third toe .
an anomaly of the fourth toe .
an anomaly of the little toe .
an anomaly of a phalanx of second toe .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  joints of the second toe that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  joints of the third toe that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  joints of the fourth toe that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
one or more bent  ( flexed )  joints of the fifth toe that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
an abnormal morphology of one or more phalanges of the second toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of one or more phalanges of the second toe .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the second toe .
fusion of the interphalangeal joints of the 2nd toe .
partial or complete duplication of a phalanx of second toe .
an abnormal morphology of one or more phalanges of the third toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of one or more phalanges of the third toe .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the third toe .
partial or complete duplication of phalanx of third toe .
an anomaly of the proximal phalanx of third toe .
an abnormal morphology of one or more phalanges of the fourth toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of one or more phalanges of the fourth toe .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the fourth toe .
partial or complete duplication of phalanx of fourth toe .
an abnormal morphology of one or more phalanges of the fifth toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of one or more phalanges of the fifth toe .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of one or more of the phalanges of the fifth toe .
partial or complete duplication of one or more phalanx of little toe .
absence  ( agenesis )  or underdevelopment of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the 2nd toe .
an abnormal morphology of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd toe .
partial or complete duplication of proximal phalanx of second toe .
an abnormal morphology of the middle phalanx of the second toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the middle phalanx of the 2nd toe .
partial or complete duplication of middle phalanx of second toe .
an abnormal morphology of the distal phalanx of the second toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the distal phalanx of the 2nd toe .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of second toe .
complete duplication of proximal phalanx of second toe .
partial duplication of proximal phalanx of second toe .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of second toe .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of second toe .
complete duplication of middle phalanx of second toe .
partial duplication of middle phalanx of second toe .
partial duplication of a phalanx of second toe .
complete duplication of a phalanx of second toe .
reduced length of one or more phalanx of second toe as a result of developmental hypoplasia .
absence of distal phalanx of the second toe as a result of developmental aplasia .
reduced length of the distal phalanx of the second toe as a result of developmental hypoplasia .
reduced length of the middle phalanx of second toe as a result of developmental hypoplasia .
reduced length of the proximal phalanx of second toe as a result of developmental hypoplasia .
a structural abnormality of the interventricular septum .
in contrast to forms of polydactyly where the supernumerary digit  ( this can either be a rudimentary or a completely 'normal' digit )  is either located postaxial  ( on the fibular side of the foot ,  next top the little toe )  ,  preaxial  ( on the tibial side of the foot ,  next to the big toe )  or mesoaxial  ( somewhere central ,  between big and little toe )  ,  a supernumerary digit may also be placed ectopically ,  meaning anywhere else except post -  , meso -  or preaxial .
in contrast to forms of polydactyly where the supernumerary digit  ( this can either be a rudimentary or a completely 'normal' digit )  is either located postaxial  ( on the ulnar side of the hand ,  next to the little finger )  ,  preaxial  ( on the radial side of the hand ,  next to the thumb )  or mesoaxial  ( somewhere central ,  between thumb and little finger )  ,  a supernumerary digit may also be placed ectopically ,  meaning anywhere else except post -  , meso -  or preaxial .
a congenital anomaly characterized by the presence of supernumerary fingers or toes .
a bifid or bifurcated appearance of the femur as seen on x - rays ,  possible appearing as a more or less severe bowing of the upper leg .
the retrograde  ( backwards )  flow of blood through the pulmonary valve into the right ventricle during diastole .
an ostium primum atrial septal defect is located in the most anterior and inferior aspect of the atrial septum .
a narrowing of the orifice of the tricuspid valve of the heart .
an abnormal connection between the epithelialised surface of the anal canal and the perianal skin .
a developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the colon .
an abnormal narrowing of the lumen of the esophagus .
absence or underdevelopment of the spleen .
an abnormal  ( non - anatomic )  location of the spleen .
pelvic asymmetry refers to asymmetric positioning of landmarks on the two sides of the pelvis and may have a structural or functional etiology .
the presence of osteophytes  ( bone spurs )  ,  i .e . ,  of bony projections originating from the acetabulum .
an exaggeration of the normal arched form of the acetabular roof such that it takes on a steep appearance .
an abnormality of the sacrosciatic notch ,  i .e . ,  the deep indentation in the posterior border of the hip bone at the point of union of the ilium and ischium .
hermaphroditism refers to a discrepancy between the morphology of the gonads and that of the external genitalia .
the presence of both ovarian and testicular tissues either in the same or in opposite gonads .
abnormality of the female genital system .
abnormality of the male genital system .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the ovary .
aplasia ,  that is failure to develop ,  of the ovary .
a developmental disorder characterized by the progressive loss of primordial germ cells in the developing ovaries of an embryo ,  leading to hypoplastic ovaries composed of wavy connective tissue with occasional clumps of granulosa cells ,  and frequently mesonephric or hilar cells .
the onset of puberty before the age of 8 years in girls .
absence or underdevelopment of the testes .
testis not palpable in the scrotum or inguinal canal .
the presence of more than two testes .
increased urinary excretion of oligosaccharides  ( low molecular weight carbohydrate chains composed of at least three monosaccharide subunits )  ,  derived from a partial degradation of glycoproteins .
an abnormality in the synthesis or catabolism of heme .
abnormally increased excretion of porphyrins in the urine .
buildups of minerals that form in the urinary bladder .
cloacal exstrophy is a severe anterior abdominal wall defect in which the two hemibladders are visible and are separated by a midline intestinal plate ,  an omphalocele ,  and an imperforate anus .
absence or underdevelopment of the urinary bladder .
aplasia  ( absence )  of the urinary bladder .
abnormality of the urachus .
persistence of the urachal canal resulting in a canal between the bladder and the umbilicus .
the presence of an abnormal connection between the urethra and another organ or the skin .
the presence of an abnormal membrane obstructing the urethra .
shortening of the arms predominantly affecting terminal parts of the arm in relation to the upper and middle limb segments .
amniotic constriction rings affecting the arms .
abnormal increase in size of the upper limbs  ( due to an increase of the size of cells )  .
the ability of the elbow joint to move beyond its normal range of motion .
an abnormality of the hypothenar eminence ,  i .e . ,  of the muscles on the ulnar side of the palm of the hand  ( i .e . ,  on the side of the little finger )  .
reduced muscle mass on the ulnar side of the palm ,  that is ,  reduction in size of the hypothenar eminence .
absence or underdevelopment of the palmar creases .
the absence of the major creases of the palm  ( distal transverse crease ,  proximal transverse crease ,  or thenar crease )  .
an abnormality of the creases of the skin of palm of hand .
a narrow segment of significantly reduced circumference of a digit .
webbing or fusion of the fingers ,  involving soft parts and including fusion of individual finger bones .
an abnormally increased length of the metacarpal bones .
shortening of the legs predominantly affecting terminal parts of the leg in relation to the upper and middle arm segments .
amniotic constriction rings affecting the legs .
abnormal increase in size of the lower limbs  ( due to an increase of the size of cells )  .
a developmental defect in which the legs are fused together .
a developmental defect that occurs if the two halves of the patella fail to fuse in early childhood .
the kneecap normally is located within the groove termed trochlea on the distal femur and can slide up and down in it .
the ability of the knee joint to extend beyond its normal range of motion  ( the lower leg is moved beyond a straight position with respect to the thigh )  .
an abnormal limitation of knee joint mobility .
a bending or abnormal curvature of the fibula .
duplication of the fibula .this may occur as a part of diplopodia  ( accessory tarsal or metatarsal bone )  .
an abnormal increase in the length of the tibia .
an abnormal limitation of the mobility of the ankle joint .
an abnormality of dermatoglyphs on the toes and soles ,  i .e . ,  an abnormality of the patterns of ridges of the skin of sole of foot .
a difference in size or shape between the left and right foot .
a condition in which the anterior part of the foot rotates outward away from the midline of the body and the heel remains straight .
absence of the tarsal bones .
an ability of the toe joints to move beyond their normal range of motion .
toes that appear disproportionately long compared to the foot .
calcification within the adrenal glands .
deposition of calcium salts in the pituitary gland .
hypersecretion of one or more pituitary hormones .
absence or underdevelopment of the thymus .
enlargement of the thymus .
the presence of ectopic thymus tissue .
an abnormality of the thyroid gland owing to the presence of a fibrous cyst resulting from the persistence of the thyroglossal duct .
an abnormal increase in quantity or strength of fetal movements .
gait apraxia affecting the ability to make walking movements with the legs .
a learning disorder characterized primarily by difficulties in learning to read and spell .
an acquired type of sensory aphasia where damage to the brain leads to the loss of the ability to read .
inability to recognize objects not because of sensory deficit but because of the inability to combine components of sensory impressions into a complete pattern .
an inability or difficulty differentiating among the fingers of either hand as well as the hands of others .
a writing disability in the absence of motor or sensory deficits of the upper extremities ,  resulting in an impairment in the ability to write regardless of the ability to read and not due to intellectual impairment .
inability to recognize the form of objects by touch without visual input .
inability to recognize faces of familiar persons .
the tendency to repeat vocalizations made by another person .
palatal myoclonus is characterized by myoclonic  ( rhythmic involuntary jerky )  movements of the soft palate .
spinal myoclonus is generally due to a tumor ,  infection ,  injury ,  or degenerative process of the spinal cord ,  and is characterized by involuntary rhythmic muscle contractions ,  usually at a rate of more than one per second .
paroxysmal episodes of vertigo .
the combination of pendular nystagmus ,  head nodding ,  and torticollis .
a paroxysmal ,  transient loss of memory function with preservation of immediate recall and remote memory but with a severe impairment of memory for recent events and ability to retain new information .
an intermittent cessation of airflow at the mouth and nose during sleep .
sleep apnea resulting from a transient abolition of the central drive to the ventilatory muscles .
an abnormally increased width of the cranial sutures for age - related norms  ( generally resulting from delayed closure )  .
an abnormally small sella turcica .
the presence of an abnormally thin calvarium .
a degree of pneumatization that is increased compared to age - related norms .
the presence of convoluted folds and furrows formed from thickened skin of the scalp ,  resembling cerebriform pattern .
nystagmus due to disturbance of the vestibular system ;  eye movements are rhythmic ,  with slow and fast components .
bursts of large - amplitude multidirectional saccades without intersaccadic interval
vertical nystagmus may present with either up - beating or down - beating eye movements or both .
downbeat nystagmus is a type of fixation nystagmus with the fast phase beating in a downward direction .
fine ,  rapid twitching of individual muscle fibers with little or no movement of the muscle as a whole .
a type of paralysis in which a muscle becomes soft and yields to passive stretching ,  which results from loss of all or practically all peripheral motor nerves that innervated the muscle .
a localized myotonic contraction in a muscle in reaction to percussion  ( tapping with the examiner's finger ,  a rubber percussion hammer ,  or a similar object )  .
paralysis of voluntary muscles means loss of contraction due to interruption of one or more motor pathways from the brain to the muscle fibers .
severe or complete weakness of both lower extremities with sparing of the upper extremities .
weakness of both lower extremities with sparing of the upper extremities .
an acute dystonic reaction with blepharospasm ,  periorbital twitches ,  and protracted fixed staring episodes .
a soft tissue continuity in the a / p axis between two fingers that extends distally to at least the level of the proximal interphalangeal joints ,  or a soft tissue continuity in the a / p axis between two fingers that lies significantly distal to the flexion crease that overlies the metacarpophalangeal joint of the adjacent fingers .
a finger resting on the dorsal surface of an adjacent digit when the hand is at rest .
an abnormality of the clivus ,  which is the inclined bony region of the posterior cranial fossa located between the sella turcica and the foramen magnum .
an abnormal vertical orientation of the clivus  ( which normally forms a kind of slope from the sella turcica down to the region of the foramen magnum )  .
an abnormally wavy surface or edge of the clavicles .
an abnormally wavy surface or edge of the ribs .
a midline anterior - posterior cleft of the epiglottis that involves at least two - thirds of the epiglottic leaf .
this term applies if the epiglottis is absent or hypoplastic .
a disordered proliferation of mature tissues that is native to the site of origin ,  e .g . ,  exostoses ,  nevi and soft tissue hamartomas .
y - shaped metatarsals are the result of a partial fusion of two metatarsal bones ,  with the two arms of the y pointing in the distal direction .
a hamartoma  ( disordered proliferation of mature tissues )  which can originate from any tissue of the eye .
elevated 7 - dehydrocholesterol levels .
an abnormally low concentration of serum alpha - fetoprotein as compared to normal values for gestational - age .
an abnormal elevation of phytanic acid .
any abnormality of the proximal epiphysis of the femur .
the presence of developmental dysplasia of the femoral head .
a cystic lesion originating within the brain .
cone - shaped epiphyses  ( also known as coned epiphyses )  are epiphyses that invaginate into cupped metaphyses .
increased size of epiphyses .
an alteration of the normally smooth contour of the epiphysis leading to an irregular appearance .
sclerosis of the epiphyses ,  leading to an increased degree of radiopacity  ( white or ivory appearance )  in x - rays .
reduction in the size or volume of epiphyses .
stop of growth at the epiphyseal plate the hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at each end of a long bone ,  at an earlier than normal age ,  resulting in growth arrest and shortening of the involved bone .
any abnormality of the distal epiphysis of the femur .
any abnormality of the proximal epiphysis of the tibia .
any abnormality of the proximal epiphysis of the fibula .
any abnormality of the distal epiphysis of the fibula .
any abnormality of the proximal epiphysis of the radius .
any abnormality of the distal epiphysis of the radius .
any abnormality of the proximal epiphysis of the humerus .
any abnormality of the distal epiphysis of the humerus .
any abnormality of the distal epiphysis of the ulna .
any abnormality of the proximal epiphysis of the ulna .
an abnormal predominance of type ii muscle fibers  ( in general ,  this feature can only be observed on muscle biopsy )  .
a benign uni -  or multicystic ,  intraosseous tumor of odontogenic origin ,  with a characteristic lining of parakeratinized stratified squamous epithelium and potential for aggressive ,  infiltrative behaviour .
a chronic epithelioid cell granulomatous inflammation of the meibomian gland caused by inflammation of a blocked meibomian gland .
an acute purulent infection of the sebaceous glands of zeis at the base of the eyelashes ,  of the apocrine sweat glands of moll or the meibomian sebacious glands often caused by staphylococcus infections .
hordeola externa are acute purulent infections affecting the sebaceous glands of zeis or the apocrine sweat glands of moll ,  often caused by staphylococcus infections .
hordeola interna are acute purulent infections affecting the meibomian sebacious glands ,  often caused by staphylococcus infections .
cutaneous skin tags also known as acrochorda or fibroepithelial polyps are small benign tumours that may either form secondarily over time primarily in areas where the skin forms creases ,  such as the neck ,  armpit or groin or may also be present at birth ,  in which case they usually occur in the periauricular region .
the presence of multiple pits  ( small ,  pinpoint - large indentations on the surface of the skin )  located on the skin of sole of foot .
benign tumors that are composed of fibrous or connective tissue .
angiofibroma consist of many often dilated vessels .
the presence of a lung fibroma ,  a benign neoplasm that can present as a mass causing airway obstruction ,  cough ,  and hemoptysis ,  or present without symptoms as a solitary pulmonary nodule .
a fibroma of the heart .
the presence of a fibroma of the ovary .
a benign biphasic tumor of the breast with epithelial and stromal components .
prominence of the malar process of the maxilla and infraorbital area appreciated in profile and from in front of the face .
a soft tissue continuity in the anteroposterior axis between adjacent foot digits that involves at least half of the proximodistal length of one of the two involved digits ;  or ,  a soft tissue continuity in the a / p axis between two digits of the foot that does not meet the prior objective criteria .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the skeleton .
absence or underdevelopment of the toenail .
absence or underdevelopment of the anterior pituitary gland ,  also known as the adenohypophysis .
absence of the anterior pituitary gland resulting from a developmental defect .
underdevelopment of the anterior pituitary gland .
facial nerve palsy is a dysfunction of cranial nerve vii  ( the facial nerve )  that results in inability to control facial muscles on the affected side with weakness of the muscles of facial expression and eye closure .
any abnormality affecting the cortex of the humerus .
any abnormality of a metatarsal bone epiphysis .
any abnormality of the epiphyses of the feet .
inability to detect any qualitative olfactory sensation .
inability to perceive certain odorants  ( implies that the sense of smell is maintained for other classes of odorants )  .
reduced ability to detect any qualitative olfactory sensation .
reduced ability to perceive certain odorants  ( implies that the sense of smell is maintained for other classes of odorants )  .
the presence of a cleft in the cerebral cortex unilaterally or bilaterally ,  usually located in the frontal area .
a form of amyloidosis that affects the conjunctiva .
an abnormally increased level of liver isoforms of alkaline phosphatase ,  tissue - nonspecific isozyme in the blood .
an abnormally increased level of bone isoforms of alkaline phosphatase ,  tissue - nonspecific isozyme in the blood .
abnormality of the nasal cavity  ( the cavity includes and starts at the nares and reaches all the way through to the and includes the choanae ,  the posterior nasal apertures )  .
abnormality of the midnasal cavity which includes the cavity between the nares and the choanae .
absence or abnormal closure of the midnasal cavity .
abnormal narrowing  ( stenosis )  of the midnasal cavity ,  i .e . ,  of the middle nasal meatus ,  which in neonates can cause respiratory distress .
absence of the distal phalanges of the toes .
an abnormal lack of stability of the cervical spine .
any abnormal increase or reduction in skin elasticity .
an abnormally increased ability of the skin to permit light to pass through  ( translucency )  such that subcutaneous structures such as veins display an increased degree of visibility .
an abnormal degree of flatness of the ala of nose ,  which can be defined as a reduced nasal elevation index  ( lateral depth of the nose from the tip of the nose to the insertion of the nasal ala in the cheek x 100 divided by the side - to - side breadth of the nasal alae )  .
an abnormality of the premaxilla  ( the embryonic structure that forms the anterior part of the maxilla )  causing it to appear relatively small in size compared to the other parts of the maxilla or other facial structures .
an abnormality of the meninges ,  including any abnormality of the dura mater ,  the arachnoid mater ,  and the pia mater .
an abnormality of the dura mater .
an abnormality of the falx cerebri .
a developmental defect characterized by aplasia of the falx cerebri .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in one or more epiphyses .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of an epiphysis .
patchy  ( irregular )  reduction in bone density .
patchy  ( irregular )  changes in bone mineral density .
patchy  ( irregular )  changes in bone mineral density with patches of bone showing an increased density side to side with patches that are affected by reduction of mineral density .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of any bone of the skeleton of hand .
a developmental defect characterized by the absence of the third ventricle .
an abnormality of the diencephalon ,  which together with the cerebrum  ( telencephalon )  makes up the forebrain .
an abnormality of the thalamus .
a developmental defect characterized by fusion of the left and right halves of the thalamus .
the presence of bilateral coxa valga .
underdevelopment of the anterior nasal spine of maxilla .
a congenital defect characterized by absence of the maxilla .
an abnormality of the zygomatic bone .
underdevelopment of the zygomatic bone .
an abnormality of the third metatarsal bone .
the presence of an abnormal curvature of the vertebral column .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of any bone of the skeleton of foot .
enuresis occurring during sleeping hours .
enuresis occurring during waking hours of the day .
an abnormally increased level of alkaline phosphatase ,  tissue - nonspecific isozyme in the blood .
an abnormally increased level of kidney isoforms of alkaline phosphatase ,  tissue - nonspecific isozyme in the blood .
an abnormally increased level of alkaline phosphatase ,  intestinal type in the blood .
an abnormally increased level of alkaline phosphatase ,  placental type in the blood .
an abnormally reduced level of alkaline phosphatase ,  tissue - nonspecific isozyme in the blood .
an abnormally reduced level of bone isoforms of alkaline phosphatase in the blood .
an abnormally reduced level of kidney isoforms of alkaline phosphatase in the blood .
an abnormally reduced level of liver isoforms of alkaline phosphatase in the blood .
an abnormally reduced level of alkaline phosphatase ,  intestinal type in the blood .
an abnormally reduced level of alkaline phosphatase ,  placental type in the blood .
a hand or foot with more than five digits that has a recognizable a / p axis of symmetry .
mirror image duplication of digits affecting the hands only .
mirror image duplication of digits affecting the feet .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers two to five .
a kind of congenital cataract that is characterized by a hollow sphere of punctate opacities involving the fetal nucleus and that usually occurs bilaterally .
a lamellar cataract with a pulverulent  ( punctate ,   \ "dust - like \ " opacities )  appearance .
a type of congenital cataract in which the opacity follows the anterior or posterior y suture .
a type of congenital cataract in which the opacities occupy the subcapsular cortex at the anterior or posterior pole of the lens .
a type of anterior polar cataract which projects as a conical opacity into the anterior chamber .
a type of nuclear cataract involving congenital dust - like  ( pulverulent )  opacity of the embryonal and fetal nucleus .
a nuclear cataract with a triangular form .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of immunoglobulins in blood .
an increased level of gamma globulin  ( immunoglobulin )  in the blood .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers one and two .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers four and five .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers one to three .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers one to four .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers one to five  ( complete syndactyly of all fingers of the hand )  .
syndactyly with fusion of the fingers two to four .
syndactyly with fusion of fingers three to five .
syndactyly with fusion of toes one and two .
syndactyly with fusion of toes one to four .
syndactyly with fusion of toes one to five  ( complete syndactyly of all toes of the foot )  .
syndactyly with fusion of toes two to four .
syndactyly with fusion of toes two to five .
syndactyly with fusion of toes three to five .
webbing or fusion of the toes ,  involving soft parts and including fusion of individual bones of the toes .
an abnormality of the texture of the hair .
an abnormality of the distribution of hair growth .
an abnormal hair whorl  ( that is ,  a patch of hair growing in the opposite direction of the rest of the hair )  .
an asymmetriy ,  i .e . ,  difference in size ,  shape or position between the left and right ear .
an abnormally advanced degree of pneumatization  ( i .e . ,  formation of air cells )  in the mastoid process with respect to age - dependent norms .
abnormal prominence of the corneal nerve fibers .
rupture of the eyeball not due to trauma .
a developmental defect characterized by absence of the retina .
pallor of the perifoveal macula of the retina with appearance of a small circular reddish choroid shape as seen through the fovea centralis due to relative transparancy of the macula .
this may present as a partial or complete duplication of the eyebrows .
the eyebrows extend towards  -  or even all the way down to  -  the margin of the upper eyelid .
nodular changes affecting the eyelids may have many different causes such as cystic lesions  ( chalaziae ,  hordeolae )  ,  lipogranulomas ,  melanomas ,  infectious diseases  ( molluscum contagiosum )  and many more .
naevus flammeus localised in the skin of the eyelid .
tumor - like growths that consist of replacement of the medullary bone with fibrous tissue ,  causing the expansion and weakening of the areas of bone involved .
fibrous dysplasia of the bones were lesions are localized in many bones throughout of the body .
fibrous dysplasia of the bones were lesions are localized in only one bone .
osteopoikilosis is a benign ,  asymptomatic sclerotic dysplasia of the bones .
a lamellar pattern visible on radiographs and mainly localized at the metaphyses of the long tubular bones .
an abnormal accumulation of excess fluid in the lower extremity resulting in swelling of the feet and extending upward to the lower leg .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin of the arms .
diminished length of a metatarsal bone ,  with resultant proximal displacement of the associated toe .
a developmental abnormality characterized by the absence  ( aplasia )  of a metatarsal bone .
absence of a digit or of one or more phalanges of a toe .
an abnormal distribution of eyebrow hair growth in the medial direction .
positioning of a lacrimal punctum other than at the medial margins of the eyelid .
blepharochalasis is characterized by recurrent ,  non - painful ,  nonerythematous episodes of eyelid edema .
loss of elasticity of the upper and lower eyelids causing the skin to sag and bulge .
a persistent midline depression of the skin over the fat pad of the chin .
midline deficiency of the mandible and some or all overlying tissues .
an anomaly of the temporomandibular joint .
asymmetry between the left and right sides of the maxilla .
absence or underdevelopment of the premaxilla .
absence of the premaxilla ,  which is the embryonic structure that forms the anterior part of the maxilla .
an abnormality of the premaxilla ,  the most anterior part of the maxilla that usually bears the central and lateral incisors and includes the anterior nasal spine and inferior aspect of the piriform rim .
prominent positioning of the premaxilla in relation to the rest of the maxilla ,  the facial skeleton ,  or mandible .
aplasia of a toe .that is ,  absence of all phalanges of a non - hallux digit of the foot and the associated soft tissues .
increased width of the columella .
a chordoma is a tumors that arises from embryonic remnants of the notochord along the length of the neuraxis .
insertion of the posterior columella below the nasal base .
decreased length of the eyelashes  ( subjective )  .
hyperkeratosis affecting the palm of the hand .
deposition of calcium salts in a tissue or location in which calcification does not normally occur .
the presence of a cyst ,  fistula ,  or abscess in the sacrococcygeal region  ( gluteal crease )  characteristically accompanied by hair and skin folds .
a sinus in the coccygeal region  ( the region of the intergluteal cleft )  .
a hair - containing cyst or sinus usually in the coccygeal region .
a developmental defect characterized by abnormal connection of one or more pulmonary veins to the superior or inferior vena cava ,  the right atrium ,  or the coronary sinus ,  resulting in a left - to - right shunt of oxygenated blood .
a form of anomalous pulmonary venous return in which not all pulmonary veins drain abnormally .
the presence of an additional membrane in the left or right cardiac atrium which results in the subdivision of the affected atrium  ( and thus in total three atria ,  whence the name )  .
a developmental defect of the aortic arch system in which the trachea and esophagus are completely encircled by connected segments of the aortic arch and its branches .
marked widening of the trachea and major bronchi that may be predispose to chronic respiratory tract infection .
marked widening of the major bronchi that may be predispose to chronic respiratory tract infection .
marked widening of the trachea .
the presence of an abnormally large pelvis .
over - sensitivity to certain frequency ranges of sound .
skin dimples are cutaneous indentations that are the result of tethering of the skin to underlying structures  ( bone )  causing an indentation .
a subtype of skin dimples occurring in the shoulder region .
redness of the skin ,  caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the uterus .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of a gonad .
the presence of a neoplasm of the urinary system .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the genital system .
the presence of a neoplasm of the testis .
underdevelopment of the interstitial  ( leydig )  cells of the testis .
hypertrophy or overdevelopment of the interstitial  ( leydig )  cells of the testis .
a digit with two nails ,  with at least some soft tissue between them .
reduced ability affecting mainly visuospatial cognition which may be tested using pattern construction  ( for example by differential ability scales ,  which test a person's strengths and weaknesses across a range of intellectual abilities )  .
a glioma affecting the cerebellum .
a glioma affecting the brainstem .
a hemangioblastoma is a benign vascular neoplasm that arises almost exclusively in the central nervous system .
increased focal pigmentation of the vermilion of the lips .
a neoplasm of the pineal gland .
lack of paramedian peaks and median notch of the upper lip vermilion .
reduced bulkiness of the crease or fold of skin running from the lateral margin of the nose ,  where nasal base meets the skin of the face ,  to a point just lateral to the corner of the mouth  ( cheilion or commissure )  .
increased pigmentation ,  either focal or generalized ,  of the skin surrounding the vermilion of the lips .
inner aspect of the upper lip vermilion  ( normally apposing the teeth )  visible in a frontal view ,  i .e . ,  the presence of an everted upper lip .
triangular appearance of the oral aperture with the apex in the midpoint of the upper vermilion and the lower vermilion forming the base .
oral commissures positioned superior to the midline labial fissure .
gentle upward curve of the upper lip vermilion such that the center is placed well superior to the commissures .
visible space between the dental arches in occlusion .
tongue extending beyond the alveolar ridges or teeth at rest .
increased width of the uvula  ( subjective finding )  .
increased length of the uvula .
decreased width of the uvula .
decreased length of the uvula .
more than two clockwise hair whorls .
hair growth from a single point on the scalp in any location other than lateral to the midline and close to the vertex of the skull .
a congenital ,  hairless plaque consisting of overgrown epidermis ,  sebaceous glands ,  hair follicles ,  apocrine glands and connective tissue .
epidermal naevi are due to an overgrowth of the epidermis and may be present at birth  ( 50% )  or develop during childhood .
a type of nevus sebaceous with a linear form ,  raised borders and yellowish color .
a generalized tonic seizure is a type of generalized motor seizure characterised by bilateral limb stiffening or elevation ,  often with neck stiffening without a subsequent clonic phase .
atonic seizure is a type of motor seizure characterized by a sudden loss or diminution of muscle tone without apparent preceding myoclonic or tonic event lasting about 1 to 2 seconds ,  involving head ,  trunk ,  jaw ,  or limb musculature .
focal emotional seizure with crying  ( dacrystic )  is characterized by the presence of stereotyped crying ,  this may be accompanied by lacrimation ,  sad facial expression and sobbing .
focal emotional seizure with laughing  ( gelastic )  is characterized by bursts of laughter or giggling ,  usually without appropriate related emotion of happiness ,  and described as 'mirthless' .
a scintillating scotoma is a common visual aura that can preced a migraine ,  whereby a spot of flickering light near the center of the visual fields occurs .
an overlap of the bony plates of the skull in an infant ,  with or without early closure .
any structural abormality of the fifth cranial nerve .
abnormality of the eleventh cranial nerve .
abnormality of the twelfth cranial nerve .
abnormality of the seventh cranial nerve sometimes also referred to as the facial nerve .
intermittent clonic or tonic contraction of muscles supplied by facial nerve .
a reduced ability to discriminate between different temperatures .
a reduced sense of touch  ( tactile sensation )  .
a loss or impairment of the sensation of the relative position of parts of the body and joint position .
pain is an unpleasant sensation that can range from mild ,  localized discomfort to agony ,  whereby the physical part of pain results from nerve stimulation and is often accompanied by an emotional component .
spontaneous pain is a kind of neuropathic pain which occurs without an identifiable trigger .
trophic changes is a term used to describe abnormalities in the area of pain that include primarily wasting away of the skin ,  tissues ,  or muscle ,  thinning of the bones ,  and changes in how the hair or nails grow ,  including thickening or thinning of hair or brittle nails .
a pattern of sensory loss with selective loss of touch sensation and proprioception without loss of pain and temperature ,  or vice - versa .
an abnormal concentration of copper .
decreased concentration of ceruloplasmin in the blood .
an increased concentration of non ceruloplasmin bound copper in the blood .
an increased concentration of copper in the urine .
an abnormality in cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  and being identified at multiple locations  ( foci )  .
focal  ( localized )  slow activity reflects focal dysfunction ,  not diffuse dysfunction  ( i .e . ,  encephalopathy )  .
multifocal slowing of cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
diffuse slowing of cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
the presence of complexes of slow spikes and slow waves  (  < 2 .5 hz )  in electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
the presence of complexes of spikes and waves  ( 2 .5 - 3 .5 hz )  in electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
the presence of complexes of spikes and waves  (  > 3 .5 hz )  in electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
complexes of spikes  (  < 70 ms )  and sharp waves  ( 70 - 200 ms )  ,  which are sharp transient waves that have a strong association with epilepsy ,  in cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
the burst suppression pattern in electroencephalography refers to a characteristic periodic pattern of low voltage  (  < 10 microvolts )  suppressed background and a relatively shorter pattern of higher amplitude slow ,  sharp ,  and spiking complexes .
eeg abnormalities  ( epileptiform discharges )  evoked by flashing lights or black and white striped patterns .
periodic lateralized epileptiform discharges  ( pleds ) are periodic ,  lateralized ,  and epileptiform .
an abnormal generalized reduction in amplitude of the cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
an abnormal localized reduction in amplitude of the cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
periodically occurring generalized periodic complexes .
periodically recurring abnormalities in the eeg .
epileptiform discharges induced by hyperventilation  ( overbreathing )  in cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
a kind of breech presentation in which the hips are flexed and the knees are extended .
a kind of breech presentation in which the hips are flexed and the knees are flexed .
a kind of breech presentation in which one or both hips are extended and one or both of the fetus' feet are pointing down and entering the birth canal .
a type of motor delay characterized by a delay in acquiring the ability to control the fingers and hands .
a delay in the acquisition of the ability to understand the speech of others .
severe mental retardation is defined as an intelligence quotient  ( iq )  in the range of 20 - 34 .
an enduring pattern of uncooperative ,  defiant ,  and hostile behavior toward authority figures that does not involve major antisocial violations ,  is not accounted for by the child's developmental stage ,  and results in significant functional impairment .
an incomplete closure of the abdominal wall .
a type of ataxia characterized by the impairment of the ability to smoothly perform the elements of a voluntary movement in the appropriate order and speed .
a type of dyssynergia affecting eye movements and characterized by the inability to smoothly follow a visual target across the visual field .
a type of dyssynergy characterized by the lack of the ability to smoothly perform the elements of a voluntary movement in the appropriate order and speed .
incoordination of movement caused by a deficit in the sensory nervous system .
an inversion of the t - wave  ( which is normally positive )  .
atrophy of the cervical segment of the spinal cord .
the presence of xanthomas  ( intra - and extra - cellular accumulations of cholesterol )  extensor tendons  ( typically over knuckles ,  achilles tendon ,  knee ,  and elbows )  .
a diagnostic reflex elicited by stimulation of the skin over the surface of the lateral malleolus of the foot .
an abnormal level of a circulating protein in the blood .
a type of strabismus in which the fixating eye is always the same one ,  while the other eye is constantly deviated .
the presence during the prenatal period of a cystic mass with multiple septa with multiple ,  asymmetric ,  thin - walled cysts near the posterior aspect of the neck .
the presence of an abnormally large hypoechoic space in the posterior fetal neck  ( usually detected on prenatal ultrasound examination )  .
an abnormality of the umbilical cord ,  which is the cord connecting the developing embryo or fetus to the placenta .
a congenital disorder of the pulmonary valve in which the orifice of the valve fails to develop .
a congenital disorder of the aortic valve in which the orifice of the valve fails to develop .
shortening of the extremities affecting primarily the distal parts of the limbs  ( hands and feet )  in relation to the other segments of the limbs .
a disease where there is cellular death  ( necrosis )  of bone components due to interruption of the blood supply .
a joint disorder caused by blood deprivation in the subchondral bone causing the subchondral bone to die in a process called avascular necrosis .
morbus koehler is a juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the os naviculare pedis .
morbus kienboeck is a juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the os lunatum .
morbus osgood - schlatter is a juvenile aseptic necrosis affecting the tuberositas tibiae .
a developmental growth retardation of the vertebral end plates that may lead to secondary destruction of the vertebral end plates and protrusion of the nucleus pulposus into the vertebral body  ( so called schmorl's nodes as seen on x - rays )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a branched chain family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phenylalanine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a serine family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glycine in the blood circulation .
an elevated plasma concentration of sarcosine .
an elevated urinary concentration of sarcosine .
an deviation from the normal concentration of sarcosine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of an aspartate family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of threonine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of methionine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a glutamine family amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamine in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of a histidine metabolic process .
an increased concentration of histidine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of proline or a proline metabolite in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of lysine in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of arginine in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of valine in the blood .
an increased concentration of leucine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of isoleucine in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of isoleucine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal circulation of valine in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of a pyruvate family amino acid metabolic process .
an abnormality of an alanine metabolic process .
any deviation from the normal concentration of tyrosine in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of a cysteine metabolic process .
an abnormality of a homocysteine metabolic process .
zonular cataracts are defined to be cataracts that affect specific regions of the lens .
a 'coral - like' pattern of opacity in the lens of the eye .
a form of cataract in which the lens substance has shrunk ,  leaving a collapsed ,  flattened capsule with little or no cortex or epithelium on the lens .
a type of cataract affecting the anterior pole of lens immediately adjacent to  ( 'beneath' )  the lens capsule .
a cataract that affects the posterior part of the cortex of the lens .
a kind of nuclear cataract characterized by fiberglasslike or needlelike crystals projecting in different directions ,  through or close to the axial region of the lens .
an abnormality of divalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of cation homeostasis .
an abnormality of monovalent inorganic cation homeostasis .
an abnormal concentration of sodium .
an abnormality of a nucleobase metabolic process .
an increased level of xanthine in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of xanthine in the urine .
an abnormality of the upper urinary tract .
an abnormality of the lower urinary tract .
an abnormality of the nasal skeleton .
an abnormality of the external nose .
an abnormality of the nasal bone ,  comprising the left nasal bone and the right nasal bone .
absence or underdevelopment of the nasal bone .
absence of the nasal bone .
a finding of a focus of increased echogenicity upon prenatal ultrasound examination of the fetus .
echogenic bowel is defined as fetal bowel with homogenous areas of echogenicity that are equal to or greater than that of surrounding bone .
an abnormality of the renal pelvis .
mild pyelectasis is defined as a hypoechoic spherical or elliptical space within the renal pelvis that measures at least 5mm and not more than 10 mm .
the presence of dilatation of the renal pelvis .
a first - trimester prenatal ultrasound finding of abnormal blood flow in the ductus venosus .
an abnormality of the fetal circulation system or fetal echocardiogram .
a first - trimester prenatal ultrasound finding of abnormal blood flow in the umbilical vein .
an abnormality of the fourth ventricle .
an abnormality of the third ventricle .
a kind of ventriculomegaly occurring in the fetal period and usually diagnosed by prenatal ultrasound .
a form of hydrocephalus in which the flow of cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  within the cerebral ventricular system or in the outlets of the csf to the arachnoid space is obstructed .
underdevelopment of the right - sided structures of the heart .
the presence of a dilated urinary bladder .
fetal megacystis is an abnormally enlarged bladder identified at any gestational age .
a developmental defect resulting in an obstructing membrane in the posterior male urethra .
a bilateral form of agenesis of the kidney .
congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation  ( ccam )  can be diagnosed prenatally if ultrasound shows a cystic or solid lung tumor .
the presence of microscopic cystic masses of nonfunctioning pulmonary tissue that lack an obvious communication with the tracheobronchial tree .
a kind of bronchopulmonary sequestration that is incorporated into the normal surrounding lung .
a kind of bronchopulmonary sequestration that is completely discrete from the normal lung and is surrounded by separate pleura .
by the 14th week of gestation it is nearly always possible to visualized the fluid - filled fetal stomach bubble on prenatal sonography .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a long - chain fatty acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phytanic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a fatty acid anion in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of carnitine in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of liposaccharide metabolism .
an abnormality of glycolipid metabolism .
an abnormality of an erythrocyte cell surface molecule .
absence of the lutheran antigen  ( a type i integral membrane glycoprotein )  from the surface of red blood cells .
a kind of anemia characterized by inadequate production of erythrocytes .
an abnormality of myeloid leukocytes .
a deviation from the normal count of b cells ,  i .e . ,  the cells that are formed in the bone marrow ,  migrate to the peripheral lymphatic system ,  and mature into plasma cells or memory cells .
an abnormal decrease from the normal count of b cells .
an abnormal functioning of phagocytosis .
a functional abnormality of the immune system .
an abnormal increase or decrease in the level of lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
an abnormal increase in the level of lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
an abnormal decrease in the level of lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
a type of multifactorial inheritance governed by the simultaneous action of many  ( more than three )  gene loci .
a type of multifactorial inheritance governed by the simultaneous action of a few gene loci .
a type of multifactorial inheritance governed by the simultaneous action of two gene loci .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on the sex chromosomes .
an abnormality of the morphology or counts of the cells that make up the immune system .
an abnormality of the extrinsic pathway  ( also known as the tissue factor pathway )  of the coagulation cascade .
an abnormality of the intrinsic pathway  ( also known as the contact activation pathway )  of the coagulation cascade .
an abnormality of blood coagulation ,  common pathway .
an abnormality of the abdominal musculature .
involuntary urine leakage synchronous with exertion ,  or actions such as sneezing ,  or coughing .
an abnormality of the cerebral subcortex .
abnormality of the striatum ,  which is the largest nucleus of the basal ganglia ,  comprising the caudate ,  putamen and ventral striatum ,  including the nucleus accumbens .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a dicarboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a monocarboxylic acid in the blood circulation .
increased amount of chromosomal breaks in cultured blood lymphocytes or other cells induced by treatment with ionizing radiation .
an increase in the number of spontaneous sister chromatid exchanges observed in cell culture of lymphocytes or other cells .
an abnormal increase of bone mineral density ,  that is ,  of the amount of matter per cubic centimeter of bones which is often referred to as osteosclerosis .
abnormally increased formation of dense trabecular bone tissue .
a severe form of myopia with greater than  - 6 .00 diopters .
an abnormality of the systemic arterial tree ,  which consists of the aorta and other systemic arteries .
a type of cirrhosis characterized by the presence of regenerative nodules of a variety of sizes .
an abnormality of the neck musculature .
the speed at which disease manifestations appear and develop .
sudden appearance of disease manifestations over a short period of time .
slow ,  creeping onset ,  slow progress and long continuance of disease manifestations .
somewhat rapid onset and change of disease manifestations .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a polysaccharide in the blood circulation .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a carbohydrate in the blood circulation .
abnormality of glucose homeostasis .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the blood .
an abnormality of the concentration of glucose in the urine .
an abnormality in a cellular process .
an abnormality of the cell cycle .
an abnormality of chromosome condensation .
an abnormality of the metabolism of mucopolysaccharide .
a deviation from the normal concentration of an unsaturated fatty acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a prostaglandin in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the cardiovascular system .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the vagina .
an abnormality of the fallopian tube .
an abnormality of blood circulation .
the presence of hemorrhage within the body .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of transition element cation .
an abnormality of the homeostasis  ( concentration )  of iron cation .
an abnormality of the regulation of body fluids .
an impairment of a fructose metabolic process .
the presence of amyloid deposition in one or more tissues .
an abnormality of the cortex of the kidney .
an altered ability of the kidneys to void urine and / or specific substances .
a decreased rate of urine production .
an abnormality of renal absorption .
an abnormality of the helix .
an abnormality of the intrahepatic bile duct .
aplasia or developmental hypoplasia of the cervical vertebral column .
an abnormal concentration of potassium .
an abnormal concentration of corticotropin in the blood .
the presence of an altered number of of permanent teeth .
agenesis of upper secondary incisor .
agenesis of upper central primary incisor .
agenesis of lower primary incisor .
agenesis of lower secondary incisor .
agenesis of one or more maxillary lateral incisor ,  comprising the maxillary lateral primary incisor .
agenesis of one or more upper lateral secondary incisor .
agenesis of premolar tooth .
agenesis of maxillary premolar .
agenesis of mandibular premolar .
agenesis of molar tooth .
agenesis of secondary molar tooth .
agenesis of either maxillary first permanent molar or mandibular first permanent molar or both .
agenesis of either mandibular second permanent molar or maxillary second permanent molar .
a generalized form of periodontitis .
a localized form of periodontitis .
developmental dysplasia of dentin affecting only the primary dentition .
an abnormality of the structure or composition of the teeth .
misaligned incisor .
an abnormality of morphology of the incisor tooth .
the presence of an altered number of the incisor teeth .
an abnormal conical morphology of the incisor tooth .
the presence of a supernumerary tooth in the midline between the maxillary central incisors .
the presence of an odontoma .
the presence of a supernumerary ,  i .e . ,  extra ,  tooth or teeth .
an abnormality of morphology of molar tooth .
an abnormality of morphology of permanent molar .
a developmental defect of tooth color .
a localized form of developmental hypoplasia of the dental enamel .
a green staining of teeth .
an abnormality of premolar tooth .
an abnormality of molar tooth .
an abnormality of canine tooth .
a tooth that has not erupted because of local impediments  ( overcrowding or fibrous gum overgrowth )  .
an abnormality of morphology of premolar tooth .
increased size of the incisor tooth .
an abnormal conical morphology of the primary incisor .
an abnormal conical morphology of either maxillary primary incisor tooth or maxillary permanent incisor tooth or both .
a form of hypomineralization of enamel characterized by reduced calcification .
a form of hypomineralization of enamel characterized by a chalky appearance of the enamel with orange ,  brown ,  or white color .
developmental dysplasia of dentin or both the primary dentition and the permanent dentition .
talon cusp is an accessory cusp located near the cingulum  ( the portion of the lingual or palatal aspect of the tooth that forms a convex protuberance at the cervical third of the anatomic crown )  .
an abnormality of the incisor characterized by invagination of the enamel ,  giving a radiographic appearance that suggests a tooth within a tooth .
a dental anomaly characterized by the presence of a two fused teeth .
the union of two separately developing tooth germs typically leading to one less tooth than normal in the affected dental arch .
the development of two teeth from a single tooth bud ,  leading to a larger fused tooth .
mulberry molars are irregular teeth generally affecting the first molars and are characterized by a grossly deformed crown imitating ,  as the name implies ,  the surface of a mulberry .
increased size and molar morphology of premolar tooth .
maxillary teeth cover the mandibular teeth when biting to an increased degree .
an abnormal anteroposterior extension of the maxillary teeth beyond the plane of the mandibular teeth upon jaw closure .
a loss of myelin from the internode regions along myelinated nerve fibers of the peripheral nervous system .
a sudden flexion ,  extension ,  or mixed extension - flexion of predominantly proximal and truncal muscles that is usually more sustained than a myoclonic movement but not as sustained as a tonic seizure .
a type of apraxia that is characterized by difficulty or inability to execute speech movements because of problems with coordination and motor problems ,  leading to incorrect articulation .
unilateral paresis  ( weakness )  with spasticity of the affected muscles and increased tendon reflexes .
an abnormal closure ,  or atresia of the tubular structure of the intestine .
an abnormal closure ,  or atresia of the tubular structure of the ileum .
an abnormality of the outflow tract of the left ventricle .
an abnormality in the amount of volume occupied by intravascular blood .
an increase in the amount of intravascular fluid ,  particularly in the volume of the circulating blood .
an decrease in the amount of intravascular fluid ,  particularly in the volume of the circulating blood .
recurrent episodes of ulceration of the oral mucosa ,  typically presenting as painful ,  sharply circumscribed fibrin - covered mucosal defects with a hyperemic border .
a recurrent form of sinusitis .
a chronic form of sinusitis .
an inflammation of the tonsils .
an abnormality of the concentration or function of circulating immune proteins .
abnormality of the cytokine levels in the blood ,  i .e . ,  an abnormality of any of the non - antibody proteins made by inflammatory leukocytes and some non - leukocytic cells that affect the behavior of other cells .
an abnormality in the production or cellular release of a cytokine  ( i .e . ,  any of the non - antibody proteins made by inflammatory leukocytes and some non - leukocytic cells that affect the behavior of other cells )  .
an impairment in the production by leukocytes of nfkb1 - dependent cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor - alpha and interferon - alpha .
an abnormality in the production or cellular release of a chemokine  ( a class of cytokines )  .
an abnormality in the production or cellular release of interferons  ( a class of cytokines )  .
an abnormality in the production or cellular release of interleukins  ( a class of cytokines )  .
an abnormality in the production or cellular release of tumor necrosis factor .
an abnormality of the nasal dorsum ,  also known as the nasal ridge .
nasal ridge curving posteriorly to an imaginary line that connects the nasal root and tip .
any morphological abnormality of the skin .
any abnormality of the physiological function of the skin .
the presence of inflammation of the skin .
an abnormality of the morphology of the epidermis .
an abnormality of the melanosomes ,  i .e . ,  of the cellular organelles in which melanin pigments are synthesized and stored within melanocytes  ( the cells that produce pigment in the dermis )  .
a significant descent of the kidney as the patient moves from the supine to the erect position .
a type of eczema that occurs in the lips and perioral area .
a condition characterized by necrosis of the mucosal and submucosal layers of the esophagus not related to ingestion of caustic or other injurious agents .
a bilateral form of fetal pyelectasis .
any abnormality of the morphology of the major calices or minor calices of the kidney .
the presence of a rash  ( change of color and texture )  of the perianal skin .
a furuncle  ( boil )  is a skin infection involving an entire hair follicle and nearby skin tissue .
an abnormally increased sensitivity to the effects of ionizing radiation .
mild fever that does not exceed 38 .5 degree centrigrade .
absence or developmental hypoplasia of the sweat glands .
absence of the sweat glands .
pale reddish slightly elevated papules and plaques of 0 .5 - 3 cm in diameter and not accompanied by pruritus .
an abnormality of the skin adnexa  ( skin appendages )  ,  which are specialized skin structures located within the dermis and focally within the subcutaneous fatty tissue ,  comprising three histologically distinct structures:  ( 1 )  the pilosebaceous unit  ( hair follicle and sebaceous glands )  ;   ( 2 )  the eccrine sweat glands ;  and  ( 3 )  the apocrine glands .
gastric duplication is a usually cystic malformation of gastrointestinal tract ,  usually attached to the greater curvature of the stomach and has no communication with the stomach .
a spherical hollow structure with a smooth muscle coat ,  lined by a mucous membrane ,  and attached to any part of the gastrointestinal tract ,  from the base of the tongue to the anus .
a type of cataract  ( opacification of the lens )  that forms during the course of aging .
a type of age - related cataract that primarily affects the nucleus of the lens .
a type of age - related cataract that primarily affects the cortex of the lens .
a type of age - related cataract consisting of granular opacities occurring mainly in the central posterior cortex just under the posterior capsule .
a seizure that occurs in the context of a brain insult  ( systemic ,  toxic ,  or metabolic )  and may not recur when the underlying cause has been removed or the acute phase has elapsed .
a dialeptic seizure is a type of seizure characterised predominantly by reduced responsiveness or awareness and with subsequent at least partial amnesia of the event .
a typical absence seizure is a type of generalised non - motor  ( absence )  seizure characterised by its sudden onset ,  interruption of ongoing activities ,  a blank stare ,  possibly a brief upward deviation of the eyes .
an absence with eyelid myoclonia seizure is a type of generalized non - motor  ( absence )  seizure characterised by forced upward jerking of the eyelids during an absence seizure .
myoclonic absence seizure is a type of generalized non - motor  ( absence )  seizure characterised by an interruption of ongoing activities ,  a blank stare and rhythmic three - per - second myoclonic movements ,  causing ratcheting abduction of the upper limbs leading to progressive arm elevation ,  and associated with 3 hz generalized spike - wave discharges on the electroencephalogram .
atypical absence status epilepticus is a type of generalized non - convulsive status epilepticus without coma that is semiologically a prolonged atypical absence seizure .
typical absence seizures starting before the age of 4 years .
a type of focal - onset seizure characterized by a motor sign as its initial semiological manifestation .
an autonomic seizure is a type of focal non - motor seizure characterized by alteration of autonomic nervous system function as the initial semiological feature .
a focal sensory seizure is a type seizure beginning with a subjective sensation .
a seizure characterized by elementary auditory phenomena including buzzing ,  ringing ,  drumming or single tones as its first clinical manifestation .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterised by symptoms or signs pertaining to the gastrointestinal system as the initial semiological feature .
a seizure characterized by taste phenomena including acidic ,  bitter ,  salty ,  sweet ,  or metallic tastes as its first clinical manifestation .
seizures characterized by olfactory phenomena as its first clinical manifestation .
auras with affective ,  mnemonic or composite perceptual phenomena including illusory or composite hallucinatory events .
a seizure characterized by sensory phenomena including tingling ,  numbness ,  electric - shock like sensation ,  pain ,  sense of movement ,  or desire to move as its first clinical manifestation .
a sensation consistent with involvement of the autonomic nervous system ,  including cardiovascular ,  gastrointestinal ,  sudomotor ,  vasomotor and thermoregulatory functions .
a seizure characterized by elementary visual hallucinations such as flashing or flickering lights / colours ,  or other shapes ,  simple patterns ,  scotomata ,  or amaurosis as its first clinical manifestation .
a type of focal motor seizure characterized by sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 ms )  involuntary single or multiple contraction ( s )  of muscles ( s )  or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  .
a type of focal motor seizure characterized by sustained increase in muscle contraction ,  lasting a few seconds to minutes .
focal seizure with eyelid myoclonia ,  not eyelid myoclonias in the context of absence seizures .
generalized clonic seizure is a type of generalized motor seizure characterised by sustained bilateral jerking ,  either symmetric or asymmetric ,  that is regularly repetitive and involves the same muscle groups .
a generalized myoclonic - atonic seizure is a type of generalized motor seizure characterized by a myoclonic jerk followed by an atonic motor component .
a short generalized seizure ,  of a duration of  < 15 min ,  not recurring within 24 h ,  occurring during a febrile episode not caused by an acute disease of the nervous system intracranial infection or severe metabolic disturbance .
a febrile seizure that has any of the following features: focal semiology  ( or associated with post - ictal neurologic abnormalities beyond drowsiness ,  such as a todd's paresis )  ,  prolonged seizure beyond 15 minutes ,  or recurring  ( occurring more than once )  in a 24 hour period .
a type of focal non - motor seizure characterized by an arrest or pause of activities ,  freezing ,  or immobilization as the predominant semiological feature throughout the seizure .
a focal seizure characterized at onset by predominantly proximal limb or axial muscles producing irregular sequential ballistic movements ,  such as pedaling ,  pelvic thrusting ,  thrashing ,  rocking movements .
a type of focal motor seizure characterised by sustained ,  forced conjugate ocular ,  cephalic ,  and / or truncal rotation or lateral deviation from the midline as the initial semiological manifestation .
an eeg with constitutional variants contains waves that are rare or unusual but not generally pathologic .
eeg background activity at 4 - 5 / second .
eeg dominated by diffuse alpha - waves  ( 8 - 13hz )  .
eeg dominated by diffuse beta - waves  (  > 13 hz )  .
eeg dominated by diffuse beta waves  (  > 13 hz )  with occipitally localized alpha waves  ( 8 - 13 hz )  .
eeg with an amplitude less than 30 microvolts without observable occipital alpha rhythm  ( 8 - 13 hz )  .
epileptiform activity refers to distinctive eeg waves or complexes distinguished from background activity found in in a proportion of human subjects with epilepsy ,  but which can also be found in subjects without seizures .
focal epileptiform discharges induced by hyperventilation  ( overbreathing )  in cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
generalized epileptiform discharges induced by hyperventilation  ( overbreathing )  in cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
eeg discharges recorded in particular areas of a localized  ( focal )  abnormality in cerebral electrical activity recorded along the scalp by electroencephalography  ( eeg )  .
focal epileptiform discharges with spreading to contralateral hemisphere but without secondary generalization .
focal epileptiform discharges with spreading to the hemisphere on the same side of the brain .
focal eeg discharges that secondarily spread to both hemispheres and can then be recorded over the entire scalp .
epileptiform discharges being identified at multiple locations in both hemispheres .
epileptiform discharges identified at multiple locations temporarily in both hemispheres and temporarily in one hemisphere .
epileptiform discharges being identified at multiple locations in one hemisphere .
focal epileptiform discharges of different shapes and frequencies .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec .
focal spikes occurring for several seconds .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration between 80 and 200 msec followed by a slow wave .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration between 80 and 200 msec .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec followed by a slow wave .
eeg discharges recorded on the entire scalp typically seen in persons with epilepsy .
eeg with generalized sharp transient waves of a duration between 80 and 200 msec followed by a slow wave .
generalized epileptiform discharges of different shapes and frequencies .
eeg with abnormal amplitude .
eeg frequency is abnormally increased .
eeg with abnormally slow frequencies .
eeg showing diffuse slowing without interruption .
non - continuous diffuse slowing of electroencephalographic patterns .
slowing at frequencies between 7 .5 and 8 .5 hz .
generalized slowing of eeg activity at frequencies between 4 - 7 hz .
generalized slowing of eeg activity at frequencies between 0 .5 - 3 hz .
eeg without electrical activity .
slowing in occipital areas of the scalp eeg .
occurrence of epileptiform discharges in occipital regions during photic stimulation .
occurence of epileptiform discharges in occipital and central regions during photic stimulation .
occurrence of epileptiform discharges in occipital ,  central ,  temporal and parietal regions during photic stimulation .
occurrence of generalized epileptiform discharges during photic stimulation .
hypsarrhythmia occurring in one hemisphere .
an abnormal shape of occiput .
an abnormal shape of the frontal part of the head .
facial height  ( length )  is more than two standard deviations below the mean  ( objective )  ;  or an apparent decrease in the height  ( length )  of the face  ( subjective )  .
forward prominence of the entire forehead ,  due to protrusion of the frontal bone .
vertical soft tissue creases in the midline of the forehead ,  often extending from the hairline to the brow ,  and seen with facial expression or when the face is at rest .
posterior positioning of the glabella ,  i .e . ,  of the midline forehead between the supraorbital ridges .
linear vertical groove in the midline of the forehead ,  extending from hairline to glabella .
absent eyelids .
redundant eyelid skin pressing the eyelashes against the cornea and / or conjunctiva .
absence or underdevelopment of the eyelid .
an abnormal elevation of the c - reactive protein level in serum .
an eyebrow that extends straight across the brow ,  without curve .
regional increase in the width  ( height )  of the eyebrow .
an eyebrow that extends laterally beyond the orbital rim rather than turning gently downward at that location .
eyelashes that draw the attention of the viewer due to increased density and / or length and / or curl without meeting the criteria of trichomegaly .
elevated ridge ( s )  of skin starting well below the medial aspect of the lower lid that curves gradually upward toward and / or across the nasal bridge .
antihelix protrusion directed more anteriorly than laterally ,  forming a shelf overlying the posterior concha .
no discernible ridge between concha and triangular fossa and helix .
supernumerary ridge or crus of the ear arising from the antihelix .
antihelical ridge that forms an acute angle between the antitragus and its bifurcation  ( stem )  instead of a gently curving arc .
increased width of the inferred cross - section of the inferior crus .
increased protrusion of the inferior crus relative to the prominence of the antihelix stem .
decreased protrusion of the inferior crus relative to the prominence of the antihelix stem .
increased protrusion of the antihelical ridge ,  proximal to its bifurcation ,  relative to the prominence of the helix .
posterior curving of the antihelix from its origin at the antitragus ,  traveling initially almost perpendicular to the descending helix and obscuring some of the concha .
decreased protrusion of the antihelical ridge ,  proximal to its bifurcation ,  relative to the prominence of a normal helix .
an abnormality of the inferior crus of the antihelix is the lower cartilaginous ridge arising at the bifurcation of the antihelix that ends beneath the fold of the ascending helix ,  and separates the concha from the triangular fossa .
an abnormality of the stem of the antihelix ,  which is the part below the bifurcation of the antihelix into the inferior and superior crura .
an abnormality of the superior crus of the antihelix is the upper cartilaginous ridge arising at the bifurcation of the antihelix that ends beneath the fold of the ascending helix ,  and separates the concha from the triangular fossa .
decreased protrusion of the superior crus relative to the prominence of a normal antihelix stem .
increased protrusion of the superior crus relative to the prominence of a normal antihelix stem .
positioning of the antitragus at an angle perpendicular to the plane of the ear  ( oriented away from the plane of the ear )  .
absence of the anterosuperior prominence of the area between the bottom of the incisura and the inner margin of the antihelix .
double rather than single peak of the antitragus .
reduction in the anterosuperior prominence of the area between the bottom of the incisura and the inner margin of the antihelix .
invagination of the superior part of the auricle under a fold of temporal skin .
a type of cryptotia associated with reduction in size of the antihelix and superior crus .
a type of cryptotia associated with reduction in size of the antihelix and inferior crus that are affected .
continuum between the tragus and ascending helix ,  without any evidence of a posterior extension  ( crus )  towards the concha .
extension of the ridge of the crus helix across the ear and connection of the crus to the antihelix .
curving course of the crus of the helix ,  approaching or joining the antitragus .
the anterior origin of the crus encompasses the superior margin of the tragus ,  the crus overrides the upper portion of the conchal cavum and ends at the antihelix .
widening ,  rather than tapering ,  of the crus at its posterior border near the antihelix .
small defect of the helical fold that lies at the junction of the superior and descending portions of the helix .
small expansion of the helical fold at the junction of the superior and descending portions of the helix .
linear ,  circumferential indentation in the convexity of the outer surface of the helix .
positioning of the anterior surface of the ear lobe in a more coronal plane than the remainder of the ear .
interruption between the ascending helix and the crus helix ,  allowing the ascending helix to be attached directly to the mastoid .
discontinuity in the convexity of the inferior margin of the lobe .
presence of all the normal ear components and the median longitudinal length more than two standard deviations below the mean .
presence of some auricular structures ,  but none of these structures conform to recognized ear components .
lack of convexity or prominence of the contour of the ridge between the bottom of the incisura and the confluence of the ascending helix and crus helix .
increased height of the tragal ridge with a shallow indentation at the apex ,  giving the appearance of a double peak .
a complete or partial duplication of the tragus ;  expected to lie anterior to the normal tragus .
increase posterolateral protrusion of the tragus .
decreased posterolateral protrusion of the tragus .
abnormally increased variability in the size of erythrocytes .
increased susceptibility to mycobacterial infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of mycobacterial infection .
increased susceptibility to mycobacterial avium complex infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of mycobacterial infection .
a type of pulmonary sequestration that occurs within the visceral pleura of normal lung tissue ,  usually without communication with the tracheobronchial tree .
an abnormality of the concentration of hydrogencarbonate in the urine .
an abnormality of calcium concentration in the urine .
an abnormal level of urinary catecholamine concentration .
an abnormality of the hindbrain ,  also known as the rhombencephalon .
an abnormality of the metencephalon .
a type of aganglionic megacolon in which the aganglionic segment does not extend beyond the upper sigmoid .
a type of aganglionic megacolon in which the aganglionic segment extends proximal to the sigmoid .
a type of aganglionic megacolon in which the aganglionic segment comprises the entire colon .
eeg with sharp slow waves in the occipital region .
eeg with sharp slow waves in the parietal region .
eeg with sharp slow waves in the temporal region .
eeg with sharp slow waves in the frontal region .
eeg with sharp slow waves in the central region .
eeg with sharp waves in the occipital region ,  i .e . ,  sharp transient waves of a duration between 80 and 200 msec .
eeg with sharp waves in the central region ,  i .e . ,  sharp transient waves of a duration between 80 and 200 msec .
eeg with sharp waves in the frontal region ,  i .e . ,  sharp transient waves of a duration between 80 and 200 msec .
eeg with sharp waves in the parietal region ,  i .e . ,  sharp transient waves of a duration between 80 and 200 msec .
eeg with sharp waves in the temporal region ,  i .e . ,  sharp transient waves of a duration between 80 and 200 msec .
a morphological abnormality of a digit ,  i .e . ,  of a finger or toe .
a soft tissue prominence of the ventral aspects of the fingertips or toe tips .
the absence of a phalangeal segment of a finger .
increased width of the distal segment of a finger .
the total absence of the foot ,  with no bony elements distal to the tibia or fibula .
for children from birth to 16 years of age the length of the palm is more than the 97th centile ;  or ,  the length of the palm appears relatively long compared to the finger length or the limb length .
the contour of the foot in lateral profile has a convex shape .
increased thumb width without increased dorso - ventral dimension .
the absence of a phalangeal segment of a toe or hallux .
divergence of digits along the anteroposterior axis  ( in the plane of the sole )  .
toes that are disproportionately narrow  ( reduced girth )  for the hand / foot size or build of the individual .
the gradual reduction in girth of the toe from proximal to distal .
a crease that connects the proximal and distal transverse palmar creases .
extension of the proximal transverse crease  ( five finger crease )  to the ulnar edge of the palm .
a nail plate that has a longitudinal separation with partially separated nails ,  each with a separate lateral radius of curvature .
decreased width of nail .
an abnormality of size or shape of the long bones .
synostosis affecting only one of the coronal sutures .
synostosis affecting only the left coronal suture .
unicoronal synostosis affecting only the right coronal suture .
synostosis affecting the right and the left coronal suture .
premature synostosis of both lambdoid sutures .
premature synostosis of only one lambdoid suture .
premature synostosis of only the left lambdoid suture .
premature synostosis of only the right lambdoid suture .
incomplete fusion of the chin ,  resulting from a developmental defect and manifesting as a midline cleft or fissure of the chin .
craniosynostosis involving at least 2 cranial sutures ,  where the exact pattern of sutures fused has not been precisely specified .
craniosynostosis of all calvarial sutures .
asymmetry of the anterior part of the skull .
asymmetry of the posterior part of the skull .
an abnormality of the fontanelle .
any anomaly of a cranial suture ,  that is one of the six membrane - covered openings in the incompletely ossified skull of the fetus or newborn infant .
premature fusion of the metopic suture .
unilateral atrophy of facial tissues ,  including muscles ,  bones and skin .
unilateral underdevelopment of the facial tissues ,  including muscles and bones .
asymmetry observed in the face of a neonate or infant whose face appears symmetric at rest and asymmetric during crying as the mouth is pulled downward on one side while not moving on the other side .
excessive amount of hair growth on forehead .
bilateral temporal scarlike defects ,  which are said to resemble forceps marks .
an abnormality of the outline ,  configuration ,  or contour of the mouth .
an abnormality of the vermilion border ,  the sharp demarcation between the lip  ( red colored )  and the adjacent normal skin .
a subtle unilateral cleft of the upper lip ,  which may appear as a small indentation .
increased width of the upper lip .
a mild delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child .
a moderate delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child .
a severe delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child .
a moderate delay in the acquisition of the ability to use language to communicate needs ,  wishes ,  or thoughts .
a mild delay in the acquisition of the ability to use language to communicate needs ,  wishes ,  or thoughts .
an abnormality involving the movement of the eye outwards .
an abnormality of the abducens nerve .
malfunction of the abducens nerve as manifested by impairment of the ability of the affected eye to be moved outward .
a mild delay in the acquisition of the ability to understand the speech of others .
a moderate delay in the acquisition of the ability to understand the speech of others .
a severe delay in the acquisition of the ability to understand the speech of others .
formation of excess fibrous connective tissue in the tunica intima  ( innermost layer )  of arteries .
an abnormality of the skin that is not localized to any one particular region .
a lesion of the skin that is located in a specific region rather than being generalized .
an abnormality of the skin that is restricted to a particular body region .
reduced pigmentation of hair diffusely .
hair that lacks the lustre  ( shine or gleam )  of normal hair .
an abnormality of the distribution of hair growth that is acquired during the course of life .
a congenital abnormality of the distribution of hair growth .
an abnormal amount of hair .
hair whose growth rate deviates from the norm .
hypopigmented hair that appears white .
reduced pigmentation of hair in patches .
yellowish discoloration of the nails .
thickening of the epidermal layer of the skin .
congenital deep dermal melanosis in the sacral area .
increased susceptibility to cutaneous fungal infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of cutaneous fungal infections .
increased susceptibility to viral skin infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of viral skin infections .
absence of the inner ear due to a developmental defect .
incomplete formation of the cochlear partition .
incomplete partition i is also known as cystic cochleovestibular malformation ,  where the cochlea has no bony modiolus ,  resulting in an empty cystic cochlea .
absence of the cochlea ,  a spiral shaped cavity in the inner ear ,  owing to a developmental defect .
a morphological abnormality of the vestibule ,  the central part of the osseous labyrinth that is situated medial to the tympanic cavity ,  behind the cochlea ,  and in front of the semicircular canals .
complete absence of the vestibule of the inner ear .
underdevelopment of the vestibule of the inner ear .
dilatation of the vestibule of the inner ear .
an abnormality of the morphology of the semicircular canal .
absence of the semicircular canal .
underdevelopment of the semicircular canal .
increased size of the semicircular canal .
an abnormality of the internal acoustic meatus ,  i .e . ,  of the canal in the petrous part of the temporal bone through which the cranial nerve vii and cranial nerve viii traverse .
aplasia of the internal auditory canal .
reduction in diameter of the internal auditory canal .
increased size of the vestibular aqueduct .
increased size of the cochlear duct ,  i .e . ,  of a duct that communicates between the perilymphatic space and the subarachnoid space ,  and transmits a vein from the cochlea to join the internal jugular .
an abnormality of the function of the inner ear .
a structural anomaly of the internal part of the ear .
absence of the vestibular nerve
underdevelopment of the vestibular nerve .
absence or underdevelopment of the cochlea ,  a spiral shaped cavity in the inner ear ,  owing to a developmental defect .
an abnormality of the dorsal columns ,  i .e . ,  of the dorsal portion of the gray substance of the spinal cord .
reduced muscle tone secondary to an abnormality of the central nervous system .
atrophy of the tibialis muscle .
an abnormality of myelination of nerves in the central nervous system .
delayed myelination in the peripheral nervous system .
demyelination of peripheral sensory nerves .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs that is lethal at birth .
a type of disproportionate short stature characterized by a short trunk but a average - sized limbs with onset in infancy .
intrauterine growth retardation that is at least 3 standard deviations  ( sd )  below average ,  but not as low as 4 sd ,  corrected for sex and gestational age .
delivery of a fetus through surgical incisions made through the abdominal wall  ( laparotomy )  and the uterine wall  ( hysterotomy )  .
delivery of newborn by means of a ventouse ,  a vacuum device used to assist the delivery of a baby when the second stage of labour has not progressed adequately .
shoulder dystocia occurs when the fetal anterior shoulder impacts against the maternal symphysis following delivery of the vertex .
an abnormality of the placenta in which there are numerous cystic spaces within the placenta as well as placental enlargement .
increased length of the umbilical cord .
separation of the placenta from the uterus wall before delivery .
the age group when the cessation of life happens .
death during adolescence ,  the period between childhood and adulthood  ( roughly between the ages of 10 and 19 years )  .
an abnormality of chloride homeostasis or concentration in the body .
an abnormally increased chloride concentration in the blood .
an increased consentration of zinc in the blood .
an finding upon obstetric ultrasound examination performed at around 16 to 20 weeks of gestation that is abnormal but not clearly identifiable as a fetal anatomic malformation or growth restriction .
fetal choroid plexus cysts  ( cpcs )  are sonographically discrete ,  small cysts found in the choroid plexus within the lateral cerebral ventricles of the developing fetus at 14 to 24 weeks gestation .
the cisterna magna is measured on a transaxial view of the fetal head angled 15 degrees caudal to the canthomeatal line .
a short femur length is defined as either a measurement below the 2 .5th percentile for gestational age or a measurement that is less than 0 .9 of that predicted by the measured biparietal diameter .
a short humerus length is defined as a length below the 2 .5th percentile for gestational age or as a measurement less than 0 .9 of that predicted by the measured biparietal diameter .
on prenatal ultrasound ,  the nasal bone is a thin echogenic line within the bridge of the fetal nose .
fifth finger clinodactyly is defined by a hypoplastic or absent mid - phalanx of the fifth digit .
an abnormally high concentration of serum alpha - fetoprotein as compared to normal values for gestational - age .
an abnormally high concentration of maternal serum human chorionic gonadotropin as compared to normal values for gestational - age .
an abnormally low concentration of maternal serum human chorionic gonadotropin as compared to normal values for gestational - age .
an abnormally low concentration of serum papp - a  ( pregnancy associated plasma protein a )  ,  as compared to normal values for gestational - age .
an abnormally elevated or decreased level of a maternal serum marker analytes used in screening for aneuploidy .
a medical history of a fetus or child born to a mother with an autoimmune disease .
a medical history of exposure of the mother of a child or fetus to a teratogenic substance during pregnancy .
rhabdomyolysis induced by anesthesia .
rhabdomyolysis induced by intake of alcohol .
an abnormality of the medulla oblongata ,  the lower half of the brainstem .
an anomaly of the control or production of movement in the central nervous system .
a type of rigidity in which the arms are in flexion and adduction and the legs are extended .
a type of cerebral palsy characterized by slow ,  involuntary muscle movement and mixed muscle tone .
cognitive ,  psychiatric or memory anomaly .
hyposegmented  ( hypolobulated )  or bilobed neutrophil nuclei .
clonus is an involuntary tendon reflex that causes repeated flexion and extension of the foot .
clonus is an involuntary tendon reflex that causes repeated flexion and extension of the foot .
a type of infection of the central nervous system that can be regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
head circumference below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender at birth .
an abnormality of the function of the middle ear .
an abnormality of the incus ,  an ossicle in the middle ear .
an abnormality of the malleus ,  an ossicle in the middle ear .
aplasia of the malleus .
aplasia of the stapes .
this term refers to the loss of eyelashes that were previously present .
the presence of a carcinoma of the esophagus .
onset of disease at up to 8 weeks following fertilization  ( corresponding to 10 weeks of gestation )  .
onset prior to birth but after 8 weeks of embryonic development  ( corresponding to a gestational age of 10 weeks )  .
onset of disease at the age of between 16 and 40 years .
onset of disease at the age of between 1 and 5 years .
a lack of intestinal ganglion cells  ( i .e . ,  an aganglionic section of bowel )  affecting the small intestine .
a lack of intestinal ganglion cells  ( i .e . ,  an aganglionic section of bowel )  affecting the duodenum .
absence or underdevelopment of the gallbladder .
a developmental defect in which the gallbladder fails to form .
sudden ,  repetitive ,  nonrhythmic motor movements  ( spasms )  ,  involving the eyes and muscles of the face .
regurgitation of milk through the nose .
feeding problem necessitating nasogastric tube feeding .
feeding problem necessitating gastrostomy tube feeding .
the enteric villi are atrophic or absent .
sensorineural hearing impairment with childhood onset .
persistence of the stapedial artery ,  which normally regresses during embryonic life .
complete loss of hearing related to a sensorineural defect .
in primary position ,  the eyes drift slowly downward and then spontaneously beat upward .
absence of globe ,  optic nerve ,  chiasm and optic tracts .
an abnormality of the lacrimal punctum ,  an opening on the eyelid close to the medial canthus that drains tears from the conjunctival sac into the lacrimal duct in the same eyelid .
a developmental anomaly characterized by abnormal smallness of one eye .
an abnormality of the lacrimal duct ,  a duct that drain tears from the conjunctiva ,  via the lacrimal puncta ,  into the lacrimal sac .
abnormality of the lacrimal gland ,  i .e . ,  of the almond - shaped gland that secretes the aqueous layer of the tear film for each eye .
adhesions between the iris and the cornea .
adhesions between the iris and the lens .
developmental abnormality in which the lens and cornea are not separated .
an abnormal anteroposterior thickness of the cornea .
a increased anteroposterior thickness of the cornea .
abnormality of the corneal endothelium ,  that is ,  the single layer of cells on the inner surface of the cornea .
abnormal migration of corneal endothelium .
abnormality of descemet's membrane ,  which is the basement membrane of the corneal endothelium .
a reduction in the number of corneal endothelial cells .
an abnormality of the stroma of cornea ,  also known as the substantia propria of cornea .
reduced transparency of the central portion of the corneal stroma .
generalized reduced transparency of the stroma of the cornea .
abnormality of the corneal epithelium ,  that is of the epithelial tissue that covers the front of the cornea .
ingrowth of new blood vessels into the cornea .
new growth of vessels on the surface of the iris .
abnormal dilatation of the iris .
multiple pupils .
a conical projection of the anterior surface of the lens ,  occurring as a developmental anomaly .
a conical projection of the posterior surface of the lens ,  occurring as a developmental anomaly .
congenital absence of the fovea .
progressive maculopathy characterized by concentric regions of hyper -  and hypo - pigmentation .
cystoid macular edema  ( cme )  is any type of macular edema that involves cyst formation .
choroidal neovascularization  ( cnv )  is the creation of new blood vessels in the choroid layer of the eye .
pale often indistinct lesions of the macula .
a macular hole is a small break in the macula ,  located in the center of the retina .
increased amount of pigmentation in the macula lutea .
drusen  ( singular ,  'druse' )  are tiny yellow or white accumulations of extracellular material  ( lipofuscin )  that build up in bruch's membrane of the eye .
splitting of the retina in the macular region .
increased pigmentation of the fundus
a benign tumor of the retina that appears as a grouping of blood - filled saccules within the inner retinal layers or on the surface of the optic disc .
an abnormality of binocular vision ,  that is of the ability to synthesize the visual inputs from both eyes to a single image with perception of depth .
inability to make fine depth discriminations from parallax provided by the two eyes' different positions on the head .
a condition where the retina contains no functional cone cells ,  so that in addition to the absence of color discrimination ,  vision in lights of normal intensity is difficult .
the condition of having both rods and cones ,  but only a single kind of cone .
individuals affected by dichromacy possess only two types of cones ,  instead of three .
individuals with anomalous trichromacy possess three types of cones ,  but one of the three types of cones has an abnormal spectral sensitivity compared to normal cones .
a type of anomalous trichromacy associated with abnormal m photopigment ,  such that the absorption spectrum is shifted toward l wavelengths .
complete lack of the m photopigment ,  which is replaced with the l photopigment .
blue and green cones only ;  no functional red cones .
an iris cyst is composed of a single cell layer of epithelium and is filled with fluid .
malignant tumor of melanocytes affecting the iris .
a benign brown pigmented area over the iris representing proliferation of melanocyte cells in the stromal layer of the iris .
an abnormal shape of the lens .
exaggerated curvature of the lens of the eye ,  producing an anterior or posterior spherical bulging .
sharply demarcated hyperpigmentation which is congenital found in around 3 - 5% of the population and of no functional significance .
sharply demarcated hyperpigmentation which is congenital .
a small break in the retina .
inflammation of the vitreous body ,  characterized by the presence of inflammatory cells and protein exudate in the vitreous cavity .
a type of retinal exudate located in the subretinal space between the sensory retina and the retinal pigment epithelium .
the appearance of yellow / white crystalline - like  ( hence the name )  spots in the retina and thickening of the peripheral part of the vitreous .
abnormality of the spatial relationship of the cardiac segments to other components of the heart .
abnormality of the spatial relationship of the atria to other components of the heart .
right atrial isomerism is characterized by bilateral triangular ,  morphologically right atrial ,  appendages ,  both joining the atrial chamber along a broad front with internal terminal crest .
in left atrial isomerism there is a bilateral small finger - shaped morphologically left atrial appendage joining the atrial chamber along a narrow front without an internal terminal crest .
mirror image atrial arrangement ,  with morphologic right atrium on the left hand side and morphologic left atrium on the right hand side .
common atrium without defining morphologic features .
the essence of the lesion is the combination of discordant atrioventricular and ventriculo - arterial connections .
crossing of the inflow streams of the two ventricles ,  due to an apparent twisting of the heart about its long axis .
criss - cross atrioventricular valves with a rare cardiac malformation characterized by the two ventricles lying one above the other instead of side by side .
a deviance in the normal connections between two cardiac segements .
an abnormality of the circulatory connection between atria and ventricles .
a defect where there is no connection between the left atrium and left ventricle .
a defect where there is no connection between the right atrium and right ventricle .
with left or right cardiac isomerism in a biventricular ,  the atrioventricular connections are perforce ambiguous ,  in that one of the connections is concordant  ( e .g . ,  right - sided morphologic right atrium connected to a morphologic right ventricle )  and one of the connections is discordant  ( e .g . ,  left - sided morphologic right atrium connected to a morphologic left ventricle )  .
connection of the right atrium to the left ventricle and of the left atrium to the right ventricle in a biventricular heart .
the condition in which both atria are joined to a single ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve .
the condition in which both atria are joined to the left ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve .
the condition in which both atria are joined to the right ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve .
the condition in which both atria are joined to a single ventricle each by its own atrioventricular valve .
a congenital defect with failure to open of the mitral valve orifice .
an atrioventricular valve that empties into both ventricles .
anomalous insertion of the chordae tendinae or papillary muscles into the contralateral ventricle in the presence of a ventricular septum defect .
an abnormality of the circulatory connection between the ventricles and the pulmonary artery and aorta .
anomalous mitral valve arcade is diagnosed based on the following features  ( 1 )  an adequately sized mitral valve orifice ;   ( 2 )  short ,  thick ,  and poorly differentiated chordae with direct union of the papillary muscles to the anterior leaflet ;   ( 3 )  narrow or nearly nonexistent spaces between the abnormal chordae ;  and  ( 4 )  greater differentiation of the chordae attached to the posterior papillary muscle .
complete absence of the interatrial septum with common atrioventricular valve and two atrioventricular connections .
a congenital anomaly with partitioning of the right atrium to form a triatrial heart caused by persistence of the right valve of the sinus venosus .
an interatrial communication caused by a deficiency of the common wall between the superior vena cava  ( svc )  and the right - sided pulmonary veins .
the left atrio - ventricular connection consists of two anatomically distinct orifices separated by accessory fibrous tissue .
cleft in the anterior mitral valve leaflet not associated with an atrioventricular canal defect .
mitral stenosis with congenital onset .
abnormality of the mitral valve apparatus ,  whereby chordae attach to a single papillary muscle or hypoplastic papillary muscles .
a congenital stenotic mitral valvular anomaly with a ring of tissue above the mitral valve .
congenital defect characterized by underdevelopment of the tricuspid valve .
an atrioventricular valve that has failed to open  ( atretic )  .
a tricuspid valve that has failed to open .
a specific combination of heart defects with a primum atrial septal defect ,  cleft anterior mitral valve leaflet ,  and inlet ventricular defect .
a specific combination of heart defects including a primum atrial septal defect and cleft anterior mitral valve leaflet .
a specific combination of heart defects with a primum atrial septal defect ,  cleft anterior mitral valve leaflet ,  and an inlet ventricular septal defect .
anatomic features of unbalanced atrioventricular septal defect  ( avsd )  include varying amounts of ventricular hypoplasia ,  as well as malalignment of the atrioventricular junction .
abnormally short chordae tendineae of the mitral valve .
a congenital defect of heart development characterized by origin of both pulmonary artery and aorta from the morphological left ventricle .
displacement of the heart outside the thoracic cavity and into the abdomen .
a type of ectopia cordis with the heart partially in the cervical region and without a defect of the sternum .
a type of ectopia cordis with the heart partially in the cervical region with a defect of the superior portion of the sternum .
congenital malformation of the thoracic wall with partial or total displacement of the heart outside the thoracic cavity .
congenital malformation of the ventral wall with partial or total evisceration of the heart outside the thoracic cavity and displacement partially into the abdominal cavity .
a deviance from the norm of the origin or course of the right brachiocephalic artery ,  the left common carotid artery ,  the left subclavian artery or the proximal vertebral arteries .
the aortic arch extends into the soft tissues of the neck before turning down into to become the descending aorta .
the left common carotid artery has a common origin with the innominate artery .
a conenital abnormality of the aortic arch in which the two embryonic aortc arches form a vascular ring that surrounds the trachea or esophagus and then join to form the descending aorta .
the subclavian artery arises from ductus arteriosus .
a patent ductus arteriosus or ductal ligament completes the ring .
aortic arch crosses the right mainstem bronchus .
aortic arch crosses the left mainstem bronchus .
the ring may be completed by the ductal ligament .
mesocardia is an abnormal location of the heart in which the heart is in a midline position and the longitudinal axis of the heart lies in the mid - sagittal plane .
abnormal plane of direction of the heart from the base to the apex .
abnormal plane of direction of the heart from the base to the apex towards the right .
abnormal plane of direction of the heart from the base to the apex in the midline .
defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the aorta and pulmonary arteries .
a congenital anomaly with an abnormal connection between the aorta and the main pulmonary artery resulting in an aortopulmonary shunt .
a congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries with a ventricular septal defect: a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart .
truncus arteriosus  ( single great artery leaving the base of the heart ,  giving rise to the coronary ,  pulmonary ,  and systemic arteries )  with each pulmonary artery arising separate from each other on the posterior or lateral aspect of the truncus .
truncus arteriosus  ( single great artery leaving the base of the heart ,  giving rise to the coronary ,  pulmonary ,  and systemic arteries )  whereby one of the two pulmonary artery branched does not arise from the common pulmonary trunk ,  but instead from the ductus arteriosus or directly from the aorta .
truncus arteriosus  ( single great artery leaving the base of the heart ,  giving rise to the coronary ,  pulmonary ,  and systemic arteries )  whereby the aortic arch is hypoplastic or interrupted ,  and a large patent ductus arteriosus is present .
non - continuity of the arch of aorta with an atretic point or absent segment .
non - continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment at the level of the isthmus .
non - continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the left carotid and subclavian arteries .
non - continuity of the aortic arch with an atretic point or absent segment between the innominate and left carotid arteries .
an abnormality of the pulmonary situs ,  i .e . ,  of the sidedness of the morphological right and left lungs ,  which is defined by characteristics such as the number of lobes per lung and the relationship of the pulmonary arteries to their bronchi .
mirror image arrangement of the mainstem bronchi with the right pulmonary artery posterior to the right upper lobe bronchus and the left pulmonary artery anterior to the left upper lobe bronchus .
an abnormality of the pulmonary situs ,  i .e . ,  of the sidedness of the morphological right and left lungs ,  in which the morphology of both left and right lungs is the same .
an abnormality of the pulmonary situs ,  i .e . ,  of the sidedness of the morphological right and left lungs ,  in which both lungs have the morphology of a right lung .
an abnormality of the pulmonary situs ,  i .e . ,  of the sidedness of the morphological right and left lungs ,  in which both lungs have the morphology of a left lung .
an abnormality of the abdominal situs ,  i .e . ,  of the sidedness of the abdomen and its organs .
a type of ventricular septal defect communicating directly between the left ventricle and right atrium .
a ventricular septal defect that involves the inlet of the right ventricular septum immediately inferior to the av valve apparatus .
the trabecular septum is the largest part of the interventricular septum .
a muscular ventricular septal defect located at the apex of the heart .
a type of muscular ventricular septal defect characterized by the presence of multiple small defects in the ventricular septum .
right pulmonary venous return to the inferior vena cava .
aorto - ventricular tunnel is a congenital ,  extracardiac channel which connects the ascending aorta above the sinutubular junction to the cavity of the left ,  or  ( less commonly )  right ventricle .
a developmental defect of the pericardium with congenital onset .
no pericardium around the heart ,  occurring as a congenital defect ,  not the result of a surgical pericardectomy .
no pericardium over the diaphragmatic surface of the heart .
no pericardium is present on the righthand side of the heart .
a congenital anomaly with lack of part of the pericardium on the righthand side of the heart .
a congenital anomaly with complete lack of the pericardium on the lefthand side of the heart .
a congenital anomaly with lack of part of the pericardium on the lefthand side of the heart .
lack of a part of the pericardium over the diaphragmatic surface of the heart .
isolated abnormalities of the coronary artery origins .
a coronary artery begins  ( branches off from )  the pulmonary artery rather than as normal from the root of the aorta .
left main coronary artery begins  ( branches off from )  the pulmonary artery rather than as normal from the root of the aorta ,  above the left cusp of the aortic valve .
right coronary artery begins  ( branches off from )  the pulmonary artery rather than as normal from the root of the aorta ,  above the right cusp of the aortic valve .
the presence of a single coronary artery ostium from which both coronary arteries arise .
a congenital malformation with abnormal connection between one of the coronary arteries and a heart chamber or another blood vessel .
an abnormality of the coronary sinus ,  which is formed by the union of the great cardiac vein and the left marginal vein and terminates in the right atrium .
an atrial septal defect characterized by a deficiency in the tissue separating the coronary sinus from the left atrium  ( la )  .
a venous pouch within the left ventricular wall ,  with a neck opening into the coronary sinus .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation of one of the anatomic dilations of the ascending aorta ,  which occurs just above the aortic valve .
narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized at the insertion of the ductus arteriosus ,  i .e . ,  to the juxtaductal region of aortic arch .
narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized distal to the ductus arteriosus ,  i .e . ,  to the postductal region of aortic arch .
abnormal persistent patency of the ductus arteriosus in postnatal life when birth was at 37 completed weeks of gestation or greater .
abnormal persistent patency of the ductus arteriosus when birth was at less than 37 weeks completed gestation .
the presence of both a left and a right ductus arteriosus .
a double outlet right ventricle with a subaortic ventritricular septal defect  ( a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart )  ,  that extends anterosuperiorly and are closely related to the pulmonary artery as well ,  are considered to be doubly committed .
a double outlet right ventricle with a subaortic ventritricular septal defect  ( a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart )  ,  that extends anterosuperiorly and are closely related to the pulmonary artery as well ,  are considered to be doubly committed .
a double outlet right ventricle with a non - committed ventricular septal defect  ( vsd )  ,  which is a vsd that is anatomically related to ,  or close to ,  neither great vessel ,  being separated from both by considerable muscle ,  and also has a pulmonary stenosis ;  abnormal narrowing or constriction of the pulmonary artery ,  in the main pulmonary artery and / or in the left or right pulmonary artery branches .
a double outlet right ventricle with a non - committed ventricular septal defect  ( vsd )  ,  which is a vsd that is anatomically related to ,  or close to ,  neither great vessel ,  being separated from both by considerable muscle ,  but there is not accompanying pulmonary stenosis ;  the abnormal narrowing or constriction of the pulmonary artery ,  in the main pulmonary artery and / or in the left or right pulmonary artery branches .
a double outlet right ventricle with a ventricular spetal defect  ( a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart )  ,  that is considered to be closely related to the aortic origin .
a double outlet right ventricle with a ventricular spetal defect  ( a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart )  ,  that is considered to be closely related to the aortic origin .
a double outlet right ventricle with a ventricular spetal defect  ( a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart )  ,  that is considered to be closely related to the pulmonary origin .
a double outlet right ventricle with a ventricular spetal defect  ( a hole between the two bottom chambers  ( ventricles )  of the heart )  ,  that is considered to be closely related to the pulmonary origin .
features of tetralogy of fallot with either rudimentary ridges or the complete absence of pulmonic valve tissue .
anomalous origin of one pulmonary artery from the ascending aorta with the contralateral pulmonary artery arising from the right ventricle .
the left pulmonary artery originates from the ascending aorta in the presence of a pulmonary valve and main pulmonary artery .
failure to develop of the tricuspid valve and thus lack of the normal connection between the right atrium and the right ventricle .
right ventricular dysfunction  ( global or regional )  with functional and morphological right ventricular abnormalities ,  with or without left ventricular disease .
left ventricular non - compaction  ( lvnc )  is characterized by prominent left ventricular trabeculae and deep inter - trabecular recesses .
transient left ventricular apical ballooning syndrome or takotsubo cardiomyopathy is characterized by transient regional systolic dysfunction involving the left ventricular apex and / or mid - ventricle in the absence of obstructive coronary disease on coronary angiography .
absence of the right superior vena cava  ( rsvc )  .
a persistent left superior vena cava  ( plsvc )  that drains into the left atrium instead of the right atrium via the coronary sinus ,  resulting in a right to left sided shunt .
a persistent left superior vena cava  ( plsvc )  that drains into the right atrium via the coronary sinus .
interrupted inferior vena cava with azygous continuation is the result of connection failure between the right subcardinal vein and the right vitelline vein .
a myxoma  ( tumor of primitive connective tissue )  of the heart .
abnormal proliferation of blood vessels within the cardiac cavities attached to the endocardium .
a teratoma within the heart .
any cardiac rhythm other than the normal sinus rhythm .
a type of tetralogy of fallot with pulmonary atresia in which all pulmonary blood flow is derived from major aortopulmonary collateral arteries  ( mapca )  .
the commonest form of tetralogy of fallot characterized by pulmonary stenosis ,  overriding aorta ,  ventricular septum defect ,  and right ventricular hypertrophy ,  without pulmonary atresia ,  absent pulmonary valve ,  atrioventricular canal defect or absent subarterial conus .
a ventricular septal defect that lies beneath the semilunar valve ( s )  in the conal or outlet septum .
a ventricular septal defect that is confluent with and involves the membranous septum and is bordered by an atrioventricular valve ,  not including the type 3 vsds .
any ventricular septal defect  ( vsd )  that is small enough to restrict flow across it such that a pressure gradient exists between the two sides of the vsd .
any ventricular septal defect  ( vsd )  that does not restrict flow across it sufficiently to generate a pressure gradient between the two sides of the vsd .
the superior vena cava passes below the aortic arch .
an abnormal path of a coronary artery .
a type of supraventricular tachycardia that originates in the atrioventricular node .
supraventricular tachycardia in which an accessory pathway connecting the atria and ventricles ,  apart from the av node ,  participates as a necessary part of a reentrant mechanism .
supraventricular tachycardia with an accessory connection mediated pathway that is called concealed becasue it is not seen on the ecg during sinus rhythm .
an incessant orthodromic tachycardia with anterograde conduction over the atrioventricular node and by retrograde conduction via an accessory pathway usually located in the posteroseptal region with slow and decremental conduction .
hemorrhage into the parenchyma of the cerebellum .
chronic supraventricular tachycardia predominantly seen in childhood .
multifocal atrial tachycardia is a rare supraventricular arrhythmia in neonates and young infants that is characterized by multiple p waves with varying p wave morphology and is usually asymptomatic .
an abnormality of the sinoatrial  ( sa )  node in the right atrium .
heart rate of greater than 100 beats per minute .
an abnormality involving the generation of the action potential by the sinus node and is characterized by an atrial rate inappropriate for physiological requirements .
delay of conduction through the atrioventricular node ,  which is manifested as prolongation of the pr interval in the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
an intermittent atrioventricular block with failure of some atrial impulses to conduct to the ventricles ,  i .e . ,  some but not all atrial impulses are conducted through the atrioventricular node and trigger ventricular contraction .
progressive pr interval prolongation with the subsequent occurrence of a single nonconducted p wave that results in a pause .
a type of second degree atrioventricular  ( av )  block characterized by sudden failure to conduct an impulse through the av node without a preceding change in the pr interval .
atrioventricular  ( av )  dissociation is present if the atria and the ventricles are under the control of two separate pacemakers .
block of conduction of electrical impulses along the bundle of his or along one of its bundle branches .
conduction block in the anterior division of the left bundle branch of the bundle of his .
a conduction block of the right branch of the bundle of his .
a conduction block of the left branch of the bundle of his .
libman - sacks valvular lesions are sterile fibrofibrinous vegetations that favor the left - sided heart valves and usually form on the ventricular surface of the mitral valve .
abnormal conduction in all three divisions of the intraventricular conducting tissue .
junctional ectopic tachycardia  ( jet )  is a unique type of supraventricular arrhythmia defined by narrow qrs complex and atrioventricular  ( av )  dissociation or retrograde atrial conduction in a 1:1 pattern .
accessory pathway - related atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia  ( avrt )  involves an abnormal electrical conduction of the accessory pathway .
an abnormality of the pulmonary veins .
type 1 total anomalous pulmonary venous connection .
type 2 total anomalous pulmonary venous connection .
type 3 total anomalous pulmonary venous connection .
type 4 total anomalous pulmonary venous connection .
defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the right heart identifiable at birth .
uhl anomaly of the right ventricle refers to the almost complete absence of right ventricular myocardium ,  normal tricuspid valve ,  and preserved septal and left ventricular myocardium .
systemic desaturation of a liveborn baby resulting from persistent pulmonary hypertension with a patent ductus arteriosus and patent foramen ovale ,  such that the circulation in postnatal life follows the fetal course .
weakness of the peroneal muscles .
clonus at the elbow joint ,  i .e . ,  an exaggerated phasic stretch reflex characterized by repetitive ,  rhythmic contractions at the elbow ,  generated by rapid passive stretch at the elbow joint .
an abnormality in the range and ease of motion of joints across their normal range .
an abnormality of sensation related to cns function .
an abnormality of the concentration of cortisol in the blood .
any structural anomaly of the adrenal glands .
a functional abnormality of the adrenal glands .
a form of adrenal insufficiency related to a lack of acth ,  which leads to a decrease in the production of cortisol by the adrenal glands .
adrenal insufficiency secondary to a defect in acth production .
a form of hyperaldosteronism caused by a defect within the adrenal gland .
adrenal insufficiency secondary to a defect in corticotropin - releasing hormone production .
adrenal insufficiency secondary to a defect in the corticotropin - releasing hormone receptor .
a form of primary hyperaldosteronism in which the overproduction of aldosterone can be suppressed by the administration of dexamethasone .
a form of primary hyperaldosteronism in which the overproduction of aldosterone cannot be suppressed by the administration of dexamethasone or similar glucocorticoids .
a form of hyperaldosteronism caused by abnormally increased renin levels .
abnormal anatomical location of the adrenal gland .
absent development of the adrenal gland .
hypercortisolemia associated with a overproduction of acth  ( often from a tumor )  ,  leading secondarily to overproduction of cortisol .
an hormonally inactive adrenocortical adenoma ,  that is ,  an adenoma that does not secrete excessive amounts of adrenal hormones .
an hormonally active adrenocortical adenoma ,  that is ,  an adenoma that secretes excessive amounts of adrenal hormones .
an abnormality of the adenohypophysis ,  which is also known as the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
a reduced ability to secrete adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  ,  a hormone that stimulates the adrenal cortex to secrete of glucocorticoids such as cortisol .
overproduction of adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  ,  which generally leads secondarily to overproduction of cortisol by the adrenal cortex .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the adenohypophysis ,  which is also known as the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
an abnormality of the neurohypophysis ,  which is also known as the posterior lobe of the hypophysis .
the presence of a neoplasm  ( tumour )  in the neurohypophysis ,  which is also known as the posterior lobe of the hypophysis .
abnormal development of the neurohypophysis during embryonic growth and development .
a solid ,  low grade ,  spindle cell ,  glial neoplasm of adults that originates in the neurohypophysis or infundibulum .
an abnormal anatomical location of the posterior lobe of the hypophysis ,  also known as the neurohypophysis .
absence of the neurohypophysis owing to a developmental defect .
underdevelopment of the neurohypophysis .
a type of pituitary adenoma that produces gonadotropins .
a type of pituitary adenoma that produces growth hormone .
a type of pituitary adenoma that is of unknown cellular origin and that lacks immunocytochemical or fine structural markers .
a type of pituitary adenoma that produces thyroid stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  .
a pituitary tumor with subarachnoid ,  brain ,  or systemic metastasis .
a spindled - to - epithelioid ,  oncocytic ,  nonendocrine neoplasm of the anterior hypophysis that manifests in adults and follows a benign clinical course .
a structural abnormality of the parathyroid gland .
a functional abnormality of the parathyroid gland .
abnormal embryonic development of the parathyroid gland .
an abnormal anatomical location of the parathyroid gland .
a type of hyperparathyroidism that occurs following kidney transplantation ,  which is a treatment for secondary hyperparathyroidism .
a type of hypoparathyroidism with circulating antiparathyroid or anti - calcium sensing receptor antibodies indicative of autoimmunity .
a structural abnormality of the thyroid gland .
enlargement of the thyroid gland related to a singular nodule in the thyroid gland .
absence of a lobe of the thyroid gland related to a failure of its embryologic development .
an abnormal growth of parafollicular  ( c - cells )  cells .
a type of hypothyroidism due to an insufficient stimulation of an otherwise normal thyroid gland .
an elevated concentration of free 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine in the blood circulation .
reduced sensitivity of thyroid follicle cells to stimulation by biologically active thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  .
gain - of - function thyroid - stimulating hormone receptor  ( tshr )  defect .
loss - of - function thyroid - stimulating hormone receptor  ( tshr )  defect .
neoplasm categorized according to type of histological abnormality .
neoplasm categorized according to the anatomical site of origin of the neoplasm .
the presence of an embryonal neoplasm of the kidney that primarily affects children .
presence of persistent islands of renal blastema in the postnatal kidney ,  anywhere within a renal lobe  ( a portion of a kidney consisting of a renal pyramid and the renal cortex above it )  .
abnormally persistent foci of embryonal immature blastema located in the superficial cortical region  ( perilobar )  .
a type of papillary renal cell carcinoma that is characterized by small cuboidal cells covering thin papillae with a single line of uniform nuclei and small nucleoli .
a renal tumor originating from an oncocyte ,  which is an epithelial cell characterized by an excessive amount of mitochondria ,  resulting in an abundant acidophilic ,  granular cytoplasm .
posterior positions and / or vertical shortening of the infraorbital and perialar regions ,  or increased concavity of the face and / or reduced nasolabial angle .
increased size of the parotid gland .
a benign  ( noncancerous )  tumorlike malformation made up of an abnormal mixture of cells and tissues that originates in the tongue .
visually assessable vertical indentation ,  cleft ,  or depression of the nasal bridge ,  ridge and tip .
a functional abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
a structural abnormality of a skeletal muscle .
atrophy  ( wasting )  affecting primary type 1 muscle fibers .
decreased intensity of the patellar reflex  ( also known as the knee jerk reflex )  .
a type of myotonia that worsens with repeated muscle contractions .
a reduced ability to distinguish tactile sensations at points that are very close to one another .
a reduced ability to identify precisely the site of a touch .
impaired ability to recognize letters or numbers drawn by an examiner's fingertip on the patient's skin  ( the patients eyes are closed or covered throughout this examination )  .
lipofuscin  ( age pigment )  is a brown - yellow ,  electron - dense ,  autofluorescent material that accumulates progressively over time in lysosomes of postmitotic cells ,  such as neurons and cardiac myocytes .
an increased level of hypoxanthine in the urine .
a congenital defect in the skull ,  whereby there is a protrusion of part of the cranial contents through a congenital defect in the cranium ,  usually covered with skin or mucous membrane .
an encephalocele located between bregma and lambda .
basal encephalocele is an encephalocele that occurs along the cribriform plate or through the sphenoid bone .
a cleft of the muscular  ( soft )  portion of the palate that is covered by mucous membrane .
absence of the normal opening of the choana  ( the posterior nasal aperture )  as a result of an obstructing choanal membrane that may be thin and strandlike or thick and pluglike .
an abnormality of one or more of the set of bones that make up the facial skeleton .
increased width of the midpoint of the mandible  ( mental protuberance )  and overlying soft tissue .
horizontal crease or fold situated below the vermilion border of the lower lip and above the fatty pad of the chin ,  with the face at rest .
h - shaped crease in the fat pad of the chin .
prominence of a triangular soft tissue area of the philtrum with the apex to the columella .
narrow ridge in the midline of the philtral groove .
absence of the usual parallel position of philtral ridges .
pit in the midline of the philtral groove .
distance between the philtral ridges ,  measured just above the vermilion border ,  more than 2 standard deviations below the mean .
abnormality of the oral mucosa .
nasal tip positioned to one side of the midline .
decrease in width of the nasal tip .
positioning of the nasal tip inferior to the nasal base .
a noninflammatory ,  progressive occlusion of the intracranial carotid arteries owing to the formation of netlike collateral arteries arising from the circle of willis .
congenital absence of the scaphoid . .
delayed maturation and calcification of the talus .
detectable but decreased iga levels that are more than 2 standard deviations below normal age - adjusted means .
localized thickening and tightness of the skin of the fingers or toes .
a deviation from the normal count of t cells .
a functional anomaly of t cells .
a potentially lethal cardiac arrhythmia characterized by an extremely rapid ,  hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia  ( 150 - 300 beats / min )  with a large oscillating sine - wave appearance .
an abnormality of the form ,  structure ,  or size of the skeletal system .
an abnormality of the function of the skeletal system .
an abnormality of the appendicular skeletal system ,  consisting of the of the limbs ,  shoulder and pelvic girdles .
short  ( hypoplastic )  second metatarsal bone .
a benign ,  painful ,  tumor of bone characterized by the formation of osteoid tissue ,  primitive bone and calcified tissue .
a bone tumor composed of cellular spindle - cell stroma containing scattered multinucleated giant cells resembling osteoclasts .
a type of abdominal pain that comes and goes in waves ,  most often starting and ending suddenly and being of severe intensity .
any anomaly in the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
inflammation of the parotid gland .
accumulation of blood within the pericardial sac .
accumulation of chyle  ( the whitish fluid taken up by the lacteals in the intestine ,  consisting of an emulsion of lymph and triglyceride fat thatpasses into the veins by the thoracic duct )  in the pericardium .
accumulation of serous fluid  ( pale yellow and transparent fluid )  in the pericardial sac .
accumulation of blood in the peritoneal cavity owing to internal hemorrhage .
abnormal accumulation of fluid leading to swelling of the pharynx .
an appetite for and the persistent ingestion of non - food substances such as clay .
a discrete mass of neoplastic monoclonal plasma cells either in the bone marrow or in an extramedullary location .
decreased activity of coagulation factor ix .
a type of keratitis characterized by inflammation in pinpoint areas of the corneal epithelium .
the presence of spots or rounded patches of abnormally increased density of metaphyseal bone .
both lungs have three lobes .
any structural anomaly of the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity .
any anomaly in the formation of the bony substance of the sternum .
an abnormally increased diphosphate ( 4 -  )  concentration in the blood .
an anomaly of the ilium ala .
pain in the lower back and hip radiating in the distribution of the sciatic nerve .
any anomaly in the function of thrombocytes .
abnormal response to arachidonic acid as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of arachidonic acid .
abnormal response to ristocetin as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of ristocetin .
abnormal response to thrombin or thrombin mimetics as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of thrombin  ( or thrombin mimetics )  .
abnormal number of platelets per volume of blood .
low platelet count following administration of unfractionated or  ( less commonly )  low - molecular weight heparin .
an anomaly in platelet form ,  ultrastructure ,  or intracellular organelles .
anomalous size of platelets .most normal sized platelets are 1 .5 to 3 micrometers in diameter .
average platelet volume above the upper limit of the normal reference interval .
presence of reduced amount of a membrane protein on the cell membrane of platelets .
decreased cell membrane concentration of the glycoprotein complex ib - ix - v .
an acute form of disseminated intravascular coagulation .
decreased cell membrane concentration of glycoprotein vi .
decreased cell membrane concentration of p2y12 receptor .
an anomaly of alpha or dense granules or platelet lysosomes .
abnormal bleeding of the umbilical stump following separation of the cord at approximately 7 - 10 days after birth .
bleeding from vessels of the various tissues of the eye .
bleeding in the anterior chamber of the eye .
hemorrhage from the vessels of the choroid .
bleeding sufficiently severe as to require red cell transfusion  ( who grade 3 or 4 )  .
significant bleeding or hemorrhage without significant precipitating factor .
prolonged or protracted bleeding following an invasive procedure or intervention .
significant maternal haemorrhage / blood loss following deilvery of a child .
a reduced concentration of vitamin k .
number of leukocytes per volume of blood beyond normal limits .
abnormal response to thromboxane as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of thromboxane a2 receptor agonists .
a type of anemia related to a reduction in the average life span of red blood cells in the peripheral circulation ,  which is normally around 120 days .
bleeding beneath the mucous membrane that lines the inner surface of the eyelid .
increased number of neutrophils circulating in blood .
an abnormality of the level of activity of circulating fibrinogen .
increased concentration of fibrinogen in the blood .
decreased concentration of fibrinogen in the blood .
qualitatively abnormal fibrinogen .
anomaly in the level or the function of hemoglobin ,  the oxygen - carrying protein of erythrocytes .
hemoglobin h  ( hbh )  contains four beta - globin chains .
hemoglobin f  ( hbf )  contains two globin alpha chains and two globin gamma chains .
hemoglobin a  ( hba )  contains two globin alpha chains and two globin beta chains .
a reduction in the ratio of production of beta globin to that of alpha globin .
a reduction in the ratio of production of alpha globin to that of beta globin .
missing radius bone on one side only associated with congenital failure of development .
abnormally flat shape of the heads of the metacarpal bones .
abnormal reduction in length affecting all phalanges .
an anomaly of a metacarpophalangeal joint .
an anomaly of the glenoid fossa ,  also known as the glenoid cavity ,  which is the articular surface of the scapula that articulates with the head of the humerus .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the lumbar region .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the thoracic region .
abnormal calcification in the cardiovascular system .
atrophy of the extensor digitorum longus muscles ,  which mediate extension of the toes .
underdevelopment  ( hypoplasia )  of the fifth toe .
bending or curvature of a fourth toe in the tibial direction  ( i .e . ,  towards the big toe )  .
accumulation of pus in the pleural cavity .
a type of pleural effusion with a transudate  ( extravascular fluid with low protein content and a low specific gravity )  .
a type of pleural effusion with a exudate  ( extravascular fluid that has exuded out of a tissue or its capillaries due to injury or inflammation )  .
an increased or decreased activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain .
a reduction in the activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex i ,  which is part of the electron transport chain in mitochondria .
a reduction in the activity of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex iii ,  which is part of the electron transport chain in mitochondria .
a reduction in the activity of the mitochondrial proton - transporting atp synthase complex ,  which makes atp via oxidative phosphorylation ,  and is sometimes described as complex v of the electron transport chain .
proximal mislocalization of the big toe from its normal position .
one or more digit that appears disproportionately short compared to the hand / foot ,  whereby either the entire digit or a specific phalanx is shortened .
developmental hypoplasia  ( shortening )  of proximal phalanx of toe .
presence of an additional phalanx - like bone ,  producing an extra ,  wedge - shaped bone at the base of the proximal phalanx of the third finger .
an anomaly of the cerebellar peduncles .
an anomaly of the superior cerebellar peduncle .
increased length of the superior cerebellar peduncle .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of the inferior mesenteric artery or superior mesenteric artery  .
decreased concentration of urate in the urine .
a decreased concentration of total carnitine in the blood .
underdeveloped nails of the fifth toes .
a soft tissue continuity in the a / p axis between fingers 3 and 4 .
an abnormality of the shape of the thoracic vertebra t12 such that it is wedge - shaped  ( narrow towards the front )  .
an abnormality of the shape of the lumbar vertebra l2 such that it is wedge - shaped  ( narrow towards the front )  .
increased concentration of so3 ( 2 -  )  ,  i .e . ,  sulfite ,  in the urine .
increased concentration of thiosulfate ( 2 -  )  in the urine .
a type of vasculitis  ( inflammation of blood vessel walls )  that affects blood vessels that are smaller than arteries ,  i .e . ,  arterioles ,  venules ,  and capilllaries .
bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia  ( boop )  is and interstitial lung abnormalitiy characterized histopathologically by plugs of granulation tissue lying within small airways ,  alveolar ducts ,  and alveoli and by chronic inflammatory cell infiltration in alveolar walls .
inflammation and fibrosis of the bronchioles leading to partial or complete obstruction of these airways .
an infection of the upper or lower respiratory tract .
a history of repeated acute infections of the upper or lower respiratory tract .
acute inflammation of the lung due to an infection .
inflammation of the bronchioles .
pneumonia due to the aspiration  ( breathing in )  of food ,  liquid ,  or gastric contents into the upper respiratory tract .
an acute episode of pneumonia due to the aspiration  ( breathing in )  of food ,  liquid ,  or gastric contents into the upper respiratory tract .
lung parenchymal involvement with lymphoma .
diffuse benign transformation of the hepatic parenchyma into small regenerative nodules with minimal or no fibrosis .
the presence of multiple granulomas in the liver as based on pathological examination .
a lymphoproliferative abnormality of the intestine characterized by numerous visible mucosal nodules measuring up to ,  and rarely exceeding ,  0 .5 cm in diameter histologically ,  hyperplastic lymphoid follicles with large germinal centres are seen in the lamina propria and superficial submucosa .
an abnormality of the pectoral muscle ,  comprising the pectoralis major ,  a thick ,  fan - shaped muscle of the anterior chest and the pectoralis minor ,  a thin ,  triangular muscle situated underneath the pectoralis major .
a small hole through the whole thickness of the retina .
hypoplasia  ( underdevelopment )  of the pectoralis minor on only one side of the chest .
focal proliferation of glial cells in the substantia nigra .
absence of any measurable level of sperm in his semen ,  resulting from a defect in the production of spermatozoa in the testes .
absence of any measurable level of sperm in his semen ,  resulting from post - testicular obstruction or retrograde ejaculation .
absence of any measurable level of sperm in his semen ,  due to a hypothalamic or pituitary abnormality diagnosed with hypo - gonadotropic - hypogonadism .
history of repeated intermittent involuntary muscle contractions that were painful .
any deviation from the normal concentration of citrulline in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of citrulline in the blood .
a reduced concentration of copper in the blood .
impaired ability to eat related to problems gathering food and getting ready to suck ,  chew ,  or swallow it .
an elevated concentration of luteinizing hormone in the blood .
amyloid deposition in the walls of leptomeningeal and cortical arteries ,  arterioles ,  and less often capillaries and veins of the central nervous system .
an exaggerated whealing tendency when the skin is stroked ,  that is ,  formation of red ,  itchy bumps and lines on the skin as a result of pressure on the skin  ( for instance ,  stroking the skin with a pen or tongue depressor )  .
abnormally low glucose concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid .
repeated episodes of sudden - onset and transient lethargy .
replacement of bone marrow by fibrous tissue .
partial or complete loss of hearing following ingestion of aminoglycoside antibiotics .
an increased concentration of catecholamine in the urine .
an increased concentration of homovanillic acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of vanillylmandelic acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of dopamine in the urine .
gallstones composed primarily of cholesterol ,  usually about 2 - 3 cm in length with an oval form and a yellow or green / brown color .
gallstones composed primarily of bilirubin and calcium salts  ( calcium bilirubinate )  with a low cholesterol concentration .
a type of pigment gallstone that is hard and black ,  containing calcium carbonate and calcium phosphates .
a type of pigment gallstone that is brown ,  containing calcium fatty acids .
failure of formation of the lumen of the gallbladder ,  often associated with gallbladder hypoplasia .
clay colored stools lacking bile pigment .
formation of abnormal ,  extraskeletal bony tissue ,  i .e . ,  the presence of bone in soft tissue where bone normally does not exist .
formation of abnormal bony tissue within muscle tissue .
formation of abnormal bony tissue within tendon tissue .
formation of abnormal bony tissue within ligament tissue .
a functional abnormality of neutrophils .
a deviation from the normal range of neutrophil cell counts in the circulation .
an abnormal form or size of neutrophils .
a reduction in the ability of neutrophils to kill bacteria .
an abnormality of the interatrial septum .
a bulging of the interatrial septum towards one side .
increased activity of coagulation factor v ,  factor v ,  which is activated to factor va by means of minute amounts of thrombin  ( and inactivated by larger amounts of thrombin )  .
abnormally increased level of blood lactate following a meal .
an increased concentration of glucose in the blood following a meal .
a persecutory delusion of supposed hostility of others .
eeg with generalized sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec .
eeg with repetitive generalized sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec .
affective ,  mnemonic or composite perceptual auras with subjective qualities similar to those experienced in life but are recognized by the subject as occurring outside of actual context .
affective auras with subjective qualities similar to those experienced in life but are recognized by the subject as occurring outside of actual context .
auras which reflect ictal dysmnesia such as: feelings as familiarity  ( deja - vu )  and unfamiliarity  ( jamais - vu )  .
a subjective feeling that an experience which is occurring for the first time has been experienced before .
a subjective feeling that an experience which has occurred before is being experienced for the first time .
auras with creation of composite perceptions without corresponding external stimuli involving visual ,  auditory ,  somatosensory ,  olfactory and / or gustatory phenomena .
auras with an alteration of actual percepts involving the visual ,  auditory ,  somatosensory ,  olfactory or gustatory systems .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves in the central region ,  i .e . ,  focal sharp waves of a duration less than 80 msec followed by a slow wave .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves in the frontal region ,  i .e . ,  focal sharp waves of a duration less than 80 msec followed by a slow wave .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves in the occipital region ,  i .e . ,  focal sharp waves of a duration less than 80 msec followed by a slow wave .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves in the parietal region ,  i .e . ,  focal sharp waves of a duration less than 80 msec followed by a slow wave .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves in the temporal region ,  i .e . ,  focal sharp waves of a duration less than 80 msec followed by a slow wave .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec in the central region .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec in the frontal region .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec in the occipital region .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec in the parietal region .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves of a duration less than 80 msec in the temporal region .
complete dislocation of the lens of the eye .
aorta descends on right instead of on the left .
persistence of blood flow through the ductus venosus for longer than the normal time after birth .
a congenital defect of the vasculature such that there is a shunt  ( by - pass )  of blood directly from the portal vein to the vena cava  ( i .e . ,  the blood from the portal vein is not filtered through the liver )  .
elevated concentration of galactose in the urine .
elevated concentration of galactose in the blood .
deviation from the normal concentration of ornithine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of ornithine in the blood .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid and swelling in the tissues of the larynx .
a benign tumor of the liver of presumably epithelial origin .
an abnormal concentration of a hormone in the urine .
abnormally increased concentration of cortisol in the urine .
benign neoplasia derived from lipoblasts or lipocytes of white or brown fat .
presence of a lipoma in the region of the sacrum .
malignant neoplasms which probably originate in primitive mesenchymal stem cell populations differentiating down a lipomatous pathway .
multiple ,  localized or widespread ,  asymptomatic or inflammatory dermal cysts involving the pilosebaceous units .
wasting of the sternocleidomastoid muscle ,  the muscle in the anterior part of the neck that acts to flex and rotate the head .
wasting of the pectoral muscles ,  i .e . ,  of the pectoralis major and pectoralis minor .
corneal guttata are droplet - like accumulations of non - banded collagen on the posterior surface of descemet's membrane .
presence of folds in the descemet membrane ,  which is the basement membrane of the endothelial  ( inner )  cell layer of the cornea .
abnormal accumulation of fluid and swelling of the stroma of cornea .
a type of asthma in which aspirin and other nonsteroidal anti - inflammatory drugs  ( nsaids )  that inhibit cyclooxygen - ase 1  ( cox - 1 )  exacerbate bronchoconstriction .
rhythmic ,  involuntary sinusoidal oscillations of one or both eyes .
seesaw nystagmus is a type of pendular nystagmus where a half cycle consists of the elevation and intorsion of one eye ,  concurrently with the depression and extortion of the fellow eye .
presence of multiple yellowish - white lesions of various size and configuration on the retina not related to vascular lesions .
inability to elicit tendon reflexes in the upper limbs .
a visual defect characterized by the inability to see as clearly in bright light as in dim light .
a kind of focal dystonia characterized by forceful contractions of the face ,  jaw ,  and / or tongue causing difficulty in opening and closing the mouth and often affecting chewing and speech .
a form of focal dystonia that affects the vocal cords ,  associated with involuntary contractions of the vocal cords causing interruptions of speech and affecting the voice quality and often leading to patterned ,  repeated breaks in speech .
an extreme form of generalized edema with widespread and massive edema due to effusion of fluid into the extracellular space .
hypoglycermia following a meal  ( or more generally ,  after intake of glucose )  .
a reduced concentration of calcitriol in the blood .
a reduced concentration of calcifediol in the blood .
malignant tumor of melanocytes of the choroid .
malignant tumor of melanocytes of the ciliary body .
the presence of a melanoma of the skin .
a type of melanoma that is flat and irregular in shape and color ,  with different shades of black and brown .
a type of melanoma that starts as a raised area that is usually dark blackish - blue or bluish - red but may not have any color .
a subtype of melanoma in situ that typically develops on sun - damaged skin .
a type of cutaneous melanoma localized to the palm ,  sole ,  or beneath the nail  ( subungual melanoma )  .
excretion of oligosaccharides conjugated to sialic acid in the urine .
a fluid filled cavity that develops with a bone .
radiographic features include a dilated ,  radiolucent lesion typically located eccentrically within the metaphyseal portion of the bone ,  with fluid levels visible on magnetic resonance imaging .
a benign fluid filled simple cyst of bone filled with serous fluid .
presence of multiple cystic changes in multiple areas or multiple bones .
increased concentration of disaccharide in the urine .
increased excretion of glycopeptides in the urine .
excretion of excess amounts of aspartylglucosamine in the urine .
an increased concentration of keratan sulfate in the urine .
an increased concentration of chondroitin sulfate  ( chebi:37397 )  in the urine .
any deviation from the normal concentration in the blood circulation of acylcarnitine ,  which is produced by reversible esterification of the 3 - hydroxyl group of carnitine .
excretion of urine with an acid ph .
an abnormal distribution of n - acylglycines in the urine .
an abnormality of the pupillary light reaction characterized by a marked slowing of the light reaction of usually just one pupil .
an abnormality of mental functioning affecting the personality and behavioural tendencies of an individual and characterized by a rigid and unhealthy pattern of thinking and behavior .
a personality disorder characterized by impulsive behavior and unpredictable and capricious mood .
a personality disorder characterized by shallow and labile affectivity ,  self - dramatization ,  theatricality ,  exaggerated expression of emotions ,  suggestibility ,  egocentricity ,  self - indulgence ,  lack of consideration for others ,  easily hurt feelings ,  and continuous seeking for appreciation ,  excitement and attention .
blockade of impulses at a focal site along the course of a motor axon .
any anomaly of the conduction of motor nerve impulses in the central nervous system .
atrophy of the cerebellum affecting primarily the granular cell layer .
an abnormally increased size of the cerebellum compared to other brain structures .
atrophy of the cerebellum affecting primarily the purkinje cell layer .
nuclear or cytoplasmic aggregates that show positive staining with antibodies against ubiquitin within cells of the brain .
any abnormality of the size of the skeletal muscle cell .
the presence of 10 or more white cells per cubic millimeter in a urine specimen ,  3 or more white cells per high - power field of unspun urine ,  a positive result on gram staining of an unspun urine specimen ,  or a urinary dipstick test that is positive for leukocyte esterase .
an abnormal color of the urine ,  that is ,  the color of the urine appears different from the usual straw - yellow color .
an anomaly in the surface contour of mitochondria .
a deviation from the normal odor of the urine .
arterial inflammation .
an anomaly of the function of the pancreas .
a functional anomaly of the acinar gland portion of the pancreas that secretes digestive enzymes .
a function abnormality of the endocrine pancreas .
a deviation from the normal size of the pancreas .
dislocation of many joints .
a congenital inclusion cysts that arises from ectodermal cells that normally form skin cells being left behind in the nervous system during development .
a congenital inclusion cysts that arises from the inclusion of ectodermally committed cells at the time of neural tube closure  ( 3rd - 5th week of embryogenesis )  .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin on the back of the feet .
an abnormal catecholamine concentration in the blood .
an abnormal concentration of creatinine in the blood .
an abnormally reduced amount of creatinine in the blood .
a deviation from the normal number of mitochondria per cell .
an anomaly of the mitochondrion ,  the membranous cytoplasmic organelle the interior of which is subdivided by cristae .
atrophy of the parietal cortex .
atrophy of the occipital cortex .
disproportionate shortening of the proximal segment of the leg  ( i .e .
increased width of the cross sectional diameter of the fibula .
a type of glaucoma defined by an open ,  normal appearing anterior chamber angle and raised intraocular pressure , 
a type of glaucomatous optic neuropathy in an eye that has evidence of angle closure  ( i .e .
underdevelopment of the pons .
an abnormality of the concentration of a glucocorticoid in the blood .
an abnormality of the concentration of corticosterone in the blood .
a deviation from the normal concentration of creatine in the blood circulation .
a carcinoma of the endometrium ,  the mucous lining of the uterus .
inflammation of the liver .
deviation from normal concentration of albumin in the blood .
elevation in the concentration of albumin in the blood .
a carcinoma of the larynx .
abnormally increased levels of methemoglobin in the blood .
increased concentration of methylmalonic acid in the urine .
inflammation of the uveal tract in which inflammation affects the anterior chamber ,  vitreous ,  retina or choroid .
inflammation of the uveal tract in which the primary site of inflammation is the anterior chamber .
inflammation of the uveal tract in which the primary site of inflammation is the retina or choroid .
inflammation of the uveal tract in which the primary site of inflammation is the vitreous .
a cancer of the prostate .
a cancer arising in any part of the stomach .
increased concentration of uracil in the urine .
death of cells in the basal ganglia .
an anomaly of erythroid lineage cells ,  that is ,  of the erythropoietic cells in the lineage leading to and including erythrocytes .
a deviation from the normal count of erythroid precursor cells ,  that is ,  erythroid lineage cells in the bone marrow .
increased count of erythroid precursor cells ,  that is ,  erythroid lineage cells in the bone marrow .
decreased count of erythroid precursor cells ,  that is ,  erythroid lineage cells in the bone marrow .
an anomaly of cells involved in the formation of a granulocytes ,  that is ,  of the granulocytopoietic cell .
decreased number of granulocyte precursors in the bone marrow .
a subtype of ductal pancreatic carcinoma that is thought to originate from squamous metaplasia of pancreatic ductal epithelium .
any structural anomaly of megakaryocytes .
any structural anomaly of a myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
decreased quantity or activity of von willebrand factor .
decreased quantity of von willebrand factor .
myelodysplasia with dysplastic changes in two or more of the myeloid lineages: erythroid ,  granulocytic ,  megakaryocytic .
myelodysplasia with dysplastic changes in two of the myeloid lineages: erythroid ,  granulocytic ,  megakaryocytic .
abnormality / dysplasia of a single myeloid cell  ( erythroid ,  granulocytic ,  or megakaryocytic )  .
the presence of blood in the pleural space .
splitting of the retinal layers in the macula .
an decrease in the level of triglycerides in the blood .
inability to experience pleasure activities usually found enjoyable .
reduced ability of the cornea to respond to stimulation .
phagocytosis by macrophages of erythrocytes ,  leukocytes ,  platelets ,  and their precursors in bone marrow and other tissues .
atrophy of the cerebral subcortical white and gray matter ,  termed subcortical atrophy ,  reflects loss of nerve cells in the basal ganglia or fibers in the deep white matter .
a separation  ( dissection )  of the layers of the carotid artery wall .
a separation  ( dissection )  of the layers of the internal carotid artery wall .
a separation  ( dissection )  of the layers of the intracranial portion of the internal carotid artery wall .
a separation  ( dissection )  of the layers of the external carotid artery wall .
a separation  ( dissection )  of the layers of the common carotid artery wall .
a dilatation  ( balooning or bulging out of the vessel wall )  of a carotid artery .
a clinical sign indicating a lapse of posture and is usually manifest by a bilateral flapping tremor at the wrist ,  metacarpophalangeal ,  and hip joints .
a developmental defect resulting in the presence of fewer than the normal number of digits .
repetitive and compulsive picking of skin which results in tissue damage .
a phenomenon in which persons repetitively pull out their own hair ,  resulting in noticeable hair loss .
habitual striking of one's own head against a surface such as a mattress or wall of a crib .
habitual biting of one's own body .
habitual biting of one's own fingernails .
habitual clasping and squeezing of the hands .
habitual repetitive movement of the body .
an increase in heart rate with standing of 30 beats per minute or more .
a tumor arising from glia in the central nervous system with macroscopic regions of necrosis and hemorrhage .
poor anticoagulant response to activated protein c . a plasma is termed 'apc resistant' when the addition of exogenous apc fails to prolong its clotting time in an activated partial thromboplastin time assay .
an anomaly of the natural killer cell ,  which is a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors .
a functional anomaly of the natural killer cell .
reduced ability of the natural killer cell to function in the adaptive immune response .
a form of focal dystonia affecting the face and especially the jaw that is induced by the act of speaking .
a disorder of large arteries ,  in particular the aorta ,  characterized by an accumulation of basophilic ground substance in the media with cyst - like lesions associated with degenerative changes of collagen ,  elastin and the vascular smooth muscle cells .
malfunction of a peripheral nerve resulting from mechanical compression of the nerve roots from internal or external causes and leading to a conduction block or axonal loss .
a squamous cell carcinoma that originates in the oropharnyx .
presence of multiple hyperplastic polyps in the colon .
an elevated concentration of high - density lipoprotein cholesterol  ( hdl )  in the blood .
injury to the median nerve caused by its entrapment at the wrist as it traverses through the carpal tunnel .
an entrapment neuropathy of the ulnar nerve in the cubital tunnel  ( in the elbow )  characterized by numbness in the ring and little fingers and weakness of the intrinsic muscles in the hand .
an increased concentration of protoporphyrins in erythrocytes .
excessive vomiting in early pregnancy ,  leading to the loss of 5% or more of body weight .
a type of lymphoma characterized microscopically by multinucleated reed - sternberg cells .
a type of lymphoma that originates in t - cells .
a type of lymphoma that originates in b - cells .
a type of t - cell lymphoma that exhibits malignant infiltration of the skin .
a type of t - cell lymphoma that is characterized by so - called hallmark cells with a pleomorphic appearance that express the cd30 antigen ,  are lobulated ,  and have indented nuclei .
transient episodes of weakness of the arm ,  leg ,  and in some cases the face on one side of the body .
uneven rhythm of breathing .
an abnormal pattern of respiration characterized by cycles of respiration that are increasingly deeper then shallower with possible periods of apnea .
a type of tumor of the pancreatic beta cells that secretes excess insulin and can result in hypoglycemia .
the presence of more than 5 juvenile polyps of the colon .
a type of headache characterized by repeated attacks of unilateral pain lasting 15 to 180 minutes and associated with local autonomic signs .
an anomaly of clotting factor ii ,  which is known as prothrombin ,  a vitamin k - dependent proenzyme that functions in the blood coagulation cascade .
an increase in the concentration of bile acid in the blood .
a fungal infection of the toenails or fingernails that tends to cause the nails to thicken ,  discolor ,  disfigure ,  and split .
recurrent infection involving the vulva ,  vagina ,  and adjacent crural areas ,  whereby the causative agent belongs to the genus candida .
any structural anomaly of the acrosome resulting in a round sperm head .
an anomaly of the mobility of ejaculated sperm .
an abnormal reduction in the mobility of ejaculated sperm .
a lack of mobility of ejaculated sperm .
juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia  ( jmml )  is a lethal myeloproliferative disease of young childhood characterized clinically by overproduction of myelomonocytic cells and by the in vitro phenotype of hematopoietic progenitor hypersensitivity to granulocyte - macrophage colony - stimulating factor .
any structural anomaly of the kidney .
an abnormal functionality of the kidney .
an abnormally increased or reduced amount of fluid filtered out of plasma through glomerular capillary walls into bowman's capsules per unit of time .
an abnormal reduction in the volume of fluid filtered out of plasma through glomerular capillary walls into bowman's capsules per unit of time .
an abnormal rise in the volume of water filtered out of plasma through glomerular capillary walls into bowman's capsules per unit of time .
the deposition of calcium phosphate microliths within the seminiferous tubules .
an entrapment neuropathy of the suprascapular nerve ,  presenting with shoulder weakness confined to the supraspinatus muscle  ( this muscle initiates shoulder abduction )  or to the infraspinatus  ( this muscle externally rotates the arm )  ,  as well as with pain in the posterior part of the shoulder and upper periscapular region .
increased concentration of porphobilinogen in the urine .
a type of soft tissue sarcoma with a histological appearance reminiscent of alveoli because of its reticulated fibrous stroma enclosing groups of sarcoma cells ,  which resemble epithelial cells and are enclosed in alveoli walled with connective tissue .
an erythematous eruption commonly associated with drug reactions or infection and characterized by inflammatory nodules that are usually tender ,  multiple ,  and bilateral .
the presence of multiple epithelioid cell granulomas consist of highly differentiated mononuclear phagocytes  ( epithelioid cells and giant cells )  and lymphocytes ,  not exhibiting caseation  ( a form of necrosis in which the tissue changes into a dry ,  amorphous mass said to resemble cheese )  .
a type of blistering that affects the skin of the tibial region .
the presence of multiple hemangiomas in the arachnoid .
a breach of the capsule of the spleen .
persistence of immune complexes in the blood circulation .
reduced number of primary teeth .
the presence of a teratoma in the ovary .
narrowing of the urethra associated with inflammation or scar tissue .
a type of headache that last hours with continuous pain of mild or moderate intensity ,  bilateral location ,  a pressing / tightening  ( non - pulsating )  quality and that is not aggravated by routine physical activity such as walking or climbing stairs .
an increased white blood cell count in the cerebrospinal fluid .
a type of retinal detachment associated with a retinal tear ,  that is ,  with a break in the retina that allows fluid to pass from the vitreous space into the subretinal space between the sensory retina and the retinal pigment epithelium .
a type of retinal detachment arising from damage to the outer blood - retinal barrier that allows fluid to access the subretinal space and separate the neurosensory retina from the retinal pigment epithelium .
decreased time between the start of the q wave and the end of the t wave as measured by the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
blood clot formed within muscle tissue following leakage of blood into the tissue .
marked decrease in the number of granulocytes .
a type of agranulocytosis related to ingestion of a specific medication .
an increased concentration of chloride in the sweat .
an increased concentration of urocanic acid in the urine .
increased plasma concentrations of chylomicrons ,  the large lipid droplet  ( up to 100 mm in diameter )  of reprocessed lipid synthesized in epithelial cells of the small intestine and containing triacylglycerols ,  cholesterol esters ,  and several apolipoproteins .
absence of transferrin ,  a protein that transports iron ,  in the blood .
an abnormal increase in intracellular lipid droplets in a muscle .
atrophy of the levator palpebrae superioris ,  the extraocular muscle that elevates the superior eyelid .
atrophy of the superior rectus ,  the extraocular muscle whose primary function is to elevate the globe .
a structural or developmental anomaly of any of the tissues involved in the genital system .
anomaly of primary or secondary sexual development or characteristics .
development of the reproductive system is inconsistent with the chromosomal sex .
reduced ability to control the movement of the eye associated with damage to the third cranial nerve  ( the oculomotor nerve )  .
anosmia for one particular odor .
increased time for the pr interval  ( beginning of the p wave to the beginning of the qrs complex )  .
an electrocardiographic anomaly of the st segment ,  which is the segment that connects the qrs complex and the t wave .
an electrocardiographic anomaly in which the st segment is observed to be located inferior to the isoelectric line .
an electrocardiographic anomaly in which the st segment is observed to be located superior to the isoelectric line .
a structural anomaly of the respiratory system .
any structural anomaly of the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi .
a malignant tumor of the bone which always arises in the medullary tissue ,  occurring more often in cylindrical bones .
an anomaly of the dynein arms of motile cilia .
absence of the outer dynein arms of respiratory motile cilia ,  which normally are situated outside of the peripheral microtubules of motile cilia .
absence of the inner dynein arms of respiratory motile cilia ,  which normally are situated within the peripheral microtubules of motile cilia .
abnormal arrangement of the structures of the axoneme ,  which is the cytoskeletal structure that forms the inner core of the motile cilium and displays a canonical 9  +  2 microtubular pattern of motile cilia studded with dynein arms .
complete absence of the dynein arms of respiratory motile cilia ,  that is ,  absence of the inner and the outer dynein arms ,  which normally are situated inside and outside of the peripheral microtubules of motile cilia .
a structural anomaly of the two central microtubules of motile cilia with a 9 + 2 microtubuluar configuration .
any functional anomaly of the respiratory motile cilia .
any anomaly of the normal motility of motile cilia .
absence of the two central microtubules of motile cilia with a 9 + 2 microtubuluar configuration .
a deviation from the normally well coordinated pattern of intracellular and intercellular synchrony of motile cilia .
a periodic beat - to - beat variation in the amplitude or shape of the t wave in an ekg .
absence of the radial spokes of the axoneme of the respiratory cilium .
a liposarcoma that contains myxomatous tissue .
any anomaly in the amount of glycogen in muscle tissue .
a decreased amount of glycogen in muscle tissue .
intermittent episodes of increased resistance to the passage of air in the upper airway .
the j wave is a positive convex deflection that occurs at the junction of the qrs complex and st segment ,  the j - point .
an increase in the combined thickness of the intima and media of the carotid artery .
a type of autosomal dominant inheritance involving a gene that is imprinted with paternal silencing .
a type of autosomal dominant inheritance involving a gene that is imprinted with maternal silencing .
inflammation of the flexor digitorum tendon ,  often associated with the kanavel signs:  ( i )  finger held in slight flexion ,   ( ii )  fusiform swelling ,   ( iii )  tenderness along the flexor tendon sheath ,  and  ( iv )  pain with passive extension of the digit .
an abnormally reduced concentration of glycine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of serine in the blood circulation .
reduced concentration of serine in the blood .
a form of amyloidosis that affects the liver .
extravasation of chyle into the peritoneal cavity .
an exanthema consisting of widespread pink - to - red macules  ( flat spots of 2 - 10 mm in diameter )  or papules  ( red bumps )  that blanch with pressure .
reduced size of the distal epiphysis of femur .
reduced size of the proximal epiphysis of the tibia .
an abnormal functionality of the hypothalamus .
any structural anomaly of the hypothalamus .
decreased secretion of luteinizing hormone - releasing hormone by the hypothalamus .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the head and neck region with origin in the lip ,  oral cavity ,  nasal cavity ,  paranasal sinuses ,  pharynx ,  or larynx .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the face .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the mouth .
a congenital defect with an abnormal joining of the gums of the upper and lower jaw .
an abnormal pigmentation pattern of the external genitalia .
abnormality of the occipital bone of the skull .
reduced diameter of the middle phalanx of finger .
reduced diameter of the distal phalanx of finger .
reduced diameter of the proximal phalanx of finger .
increased length of the middle phalanx of finger .
increased length of the distal phalanx of finger .
failure of the ureter to undergo development .
abnormal transferrin isoform profile consistent with a type ii congenital disorder of glycosylation .
a severe virus infection of the central nervous system by the herpes simplex virus  ( hsv )  .
an anomaly of the arch of aorta .
underdevelopment of the arch of aorta .
narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized to the region of the descending trunk of arch of aorta .
an anomaly of the process of rib bone formation .
ribs that are increased in width and taper to the posterior ends .
a reduced level of the complement component c9 in circulation .
the presence of amyloid deposition in the superficial dermis .
an anomaly in the number of monocytes ,  which are myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
an increased number of circulating monocytes .
an decreased number of circulating monocytes .
bony swelling of the distal interphalangeal joint  ( dip )  associated with the formation of osteophytes  ( calcific spurs )  of the articular  ( joint )  cartilage that are visible radiographically .
bony swelling of the proximal interphalangeal joint  ( pip )  associated with the formation of osteophytes  ( calcific spurs )  of the articular  ( joint )  cartilage that are visible radiographically .
a neoplasm containing histiocytes .
any neoplasm composed of fibrous tissue .
inflammation of the sacroiliac joint ,  generally accompanied by lower back pain .
a distinct type of headache characterized by piercing ,  throbbing ,  or electric - shock - like chronic pain in the upper neck ,  back of the head ,  and behind the ears ,  usually on one side .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  of the abdomen .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  of the arms and legs .
an increased concentration of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid in the urine .
inflammation surrounding hair follicles .
myoclonus that occurs during the initial phases of sleep .
a leukemia that originates from a myeloid cell ,  that is the blood forming cells of the bone marrow .
a myelodysplastic / myeloproliferative neoplasm which is characterized by persistent monocytosis ,  absence of a philadelphia chromosome and bcr / abl fusion gene ,  fewer than 20 percent blasts in the bone marrow and blood ,  myelodysplasia ,  and absence of pdgfra or pdgfrb rearrangement .
an anomaly of the celiac artery .
compression of the celiac artery .
an odontogenic tumor of the cementum of tooth .
a vascular tumor of the skin and subcutaneous tissues and characterized by slow angiomatous proliferation .
an inflammation of the kidney involving the parenchyma of kidney ,  the renal pelvis and the kidney calices .
a structural abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
a functional abnormality of the autonomic nervous system .
an abnormal regulation of the sweat glands by the sympathetic nervous system associated with abnormal perspiration .
impairment of bile flow due to obstruction in large bile ducts outside the liver .
an abnormality of the metabolism of folic acid ,  which is also known as vitamin b9 .
an anomaly in the processes involved in the maintenance of an internal equilibrium .
any anomaly in the utilization of energy  ( calories )  .
an increase in the number of calories used per unit time .
a reduction in the number of calories used per unit time .
a pituitary prolactin cell adenoma of less than 10 mm diameter .
a pituitary prolactin cell adenoma of more than 10 mm diameter .
abnormally reduced concentration of ferritin ,  a ubiquitous intracellular protein that stores iron ,  in the blood .
isolated patches of hardened skin  ( scleroderma )  .
an anomaly of a glycosylation process ,  i .e . ,  a process involved in the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to a substrate molecule .
an anomaly of a protein glycosylation process ,  i .e . ,  of a protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid ,  e .g .
an anomaly of protein n - linked glycosylation ,  i .e . ,  an abnormality of the protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via a nitrogen atom in an amino acid residue in a protein .
a reduction in the amount of galactose residues of n - glycans .
an anomaly of the addition of sialic acids to n - linked glycans .
decreased addition of sialic acids to n - linked glycans .
increased addition of sialic acids to n - linked glycans .
an anomaly of the addition of fucose sugar units to n - linked glycans .
decreased addition of fucose sugar units to n - linked glycans .
increased addition of fucose sugar units to n - linked glycans .
an anomaly of the addition of mannose to n - linked glycans .
reduced addition of mannose to n - linked glycans .
increased addition of mannose to n - linked glycans .
an anomaly of protein o - linked glycosylation ,  i .e . ,  of the process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the hydroxyl group of a serine or threonine residue .
an anomaly of the addition of fucose sugar units to o - linked glycans .
a reduction of the addition of fucose sugar units to o - linked glycans .
increased addition of fucose sugar units to o - linked glycans .
an anomaly of the addition of sialic acids to o - linked glycans .
an reduced addition of sialic acids to o - linked glycans .
a decreased concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormally decreased phosphate concentration in the urine .
projection of the tip of the dens more than 5 mm above a line joining the hard palate to the posterior lip of the foramen magnum  ( chamberlain's line )  or the tip of the dens is greater than 7 mm above mcgregor's line  ( the back of the hard palate to the lowest point of the occipital squama )  .
bony defects situated along the cranial suture lines or at the junction of the bone plates of the skull .
absence of concavity or convexity of the face when viewed in profile .
an abnormality of the malar surface of the zygomatic bone and including the frontal process of maxilla .
large or prominent malar surface of the zygomatic bone of the skull ,  which is convex and forms the prominence of the 'cheek bones' .
abnormally anterior positioning of the infraorbital and perialar regions ,  or increased convexity of the face ,  or increased nasolabial angle .
a structural anomaly of the globe of the eye ,  or bulbus oculi .
a functional anomaly of the eye .
edema  ( swelling )  of the bulbar conjunctiva .
abnormal smallness of the lens .
partial or complete loss of vision in one half of the visual field of one or both eyes .
a subjective feeling of tiredness characterized by a lack of energy and motivation .
an altered ability of any enzyme or their cofactors to act as catalysts .
reduced carnitine o - palmitoyltransferase level ,  leading to a reduced activity of the reaction: palmitoyl - coa  +  l - carnitine = coa  +  l - palmitoylcarnitine .
a delay in the development of skills required to feed oneself in the toddler period  ( between one and three years of age )  .
pattern of blood flow in the heart that deviates from the normal circuit of the circulatory system from the left side of the heart to the right .
pattern of blood flow in the heart that deviates from the normal circuit of the circulatory system from both right side of the heart to the left and vice versa .
inflammation of the nasal mucosa with nasal congestion .
the distal interphalangeal joint and / or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers or toes cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension .
aplasia of the hallux ,  that is ,  a development defect such that the big toe does not develop .
inflammation of the large airways in the lung including any part of the bronchi from the primary bronchi to the tertiary bronchi .
inflammation of the large airways of the lung with rapid onset and short course usually associated with cough ,  mucus production ,  shortness of breath ,  wheezing ,  and chest tightness .
muscular hypotonia of one or more limbs .
a small tear in the thin ,  moist tissue  ( mucosa )  that lines the anus .
reduced intensity of muscle tendon reflexes in the upper limbs .
reduced intensity of muscle tendon reflexes in jaw .
an allergy is an immune response or reaction to substances that are usually not harmful .
allergy to iodine contrast media used in radiological studies .
an allergy experienced at a particular time of year when trees or grasses pollinate and elicit an allergic reaction .
a motility disorder characterized by biliary colic in the absence of gallstones with a reduced gallbladder ejection fraction .
the presence of atheromas or atherosclerotic plaques in the aorta .
an abnormal accumulation of interstitial fluid in the soft tissues of the limbs .
a type of ulcer that is caused when an area of skin is subject to pressure over a prolonged period of time ,  ranging in range in severity from patches of discolored skin to open wounds that expose the underlying bone or muscle .
an abnormal concentration of aldolase in the serum .
a deviation from normal of the concentration of 2 - oxoglutaric acid in the urine .
a greater than normal concentration of 2 - oxoglutaric acid in the urine .
a lower than normal concentration of 2 - oxoglutaric acid in the urine .
a deviation from normal of the concentration of citrate ( 3 -  )  in the urine .
a lower than normal concentration of citrate ( 3 -  )  in the urine .
a greater than normal concentration of citrate ( 3 -  )  in the urine .
a type of spastic paraparetic gait in which the muscle tone in the adductors is marked .
the deposition of calcium salts in the parenchyma of the renal medulla  ( innermost part of the kidney )  .
the deposition of calcium salts in the parenchyma of the renal cortex  ( the outer portion of the kidney between the renal capsule and the renal medulla )  .
a type of anemia resulting from suppression of erythropoiesis with little or no abnormality of leukocyte or platelet production .
the onset of growth of pubic hair at an earlier age than normal .
onset of adrenarche at an earlier age than usual .
the presence of a v - shaped indentation  ( notch )  in the primary central incisor .
wasting or decrease in size of all or part of the duodenum .
an abnormality of the partial pressure of oxygen or carbon dioxide in the arterial blood .
abnormally elevated blood carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  level .
abnormally reduced blood carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  level .
an abnormally low level of blood oxygen .
an abnormally high level of blood oxygen .
amniotic fluid containing the earliest stools of a mammalian infant .
congenital lack of the skin of prepuce of penis ,  that is ,  of the double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis .
overgrowth of the choroid plexus .
the inability of the colon to modify stool to an acceptable consistency and move the stool from the cecum to the rectosigmoid area at least once every three days .
an inflammation of the choroid and retina .
an ulcer of the colon due to pressure and irritation from retained fecal masses .
optic disc drusen are acellular ,  calcified deposits within the optic nerve head .
an increased degree of femoral version ,  which is defined as the angular difference between axis of femoral neck and transcondylar axis of the knee .
protruding heel bone ,  or calcaneus .
absence or underdevelopment of the cerebral white matter .
underdevelopment of the cerebral white matter .
intermittent and recurrent bouts of a subjective feeling of tiredness characterized by a lack of energy and motivation .
subjective feeling of tiredness characterized by a lack of energy and motivation that persists for six months or longer .
an abnormality of actions or reactions of a person taking place during interactions with others .
a failure to meet one or more age - related milestones of social behavior .
reduction in length of the ventral  ( lower )  skin of prepuce of penis .
coronary disease that has not progressed to the point of causing significant occlusion  ( blockage )  of the coronary arteries .
a structural anomaly of the gallbladder .
a functional anomaly of the gallbladder .
a functional abnormality of the biliary tree .
a structural abnormality of the biliary tree .
reduced motility through the sphincter of oddi ,  resulting in impedance of bile and pancreatic juice flow from the common bile duct into the duodenum .
reduced motility of the gallbladder with reduced emptying fraction .
a structural abnormality of the brain ,  which has as its parts the forebrain ,  midbrain ,  and hindbrain .
partial or complete wasting  ( loss )  of brain tissue that was once present .
a reduced concentration of 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate ( 2 -  )  in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
any anomaly in the process by which myelin sheaths are formed and maintained around neurons .
delayed myelination .
inflammation of the synovial membrane of the sacroiliac joint .
constipation for longer than three months with fewer than 3 bowel movements per week ,  straining ,  lumpy or hard stools ,  and a sensation of anorectal obstruction or incomplete defecation .
constipation of sudden onset and lasting for less than three months .
a feeling of uneasiness and restlessness in the legs after going to bed  ( sometimes causing insomnia )  .
a chronic loss of wrist joint motion on the right and left sides .
a chronic loss of wrist joint motion on one side only .
calcification ,  that is ,  pathological deposition of calcium salts in the tunica media of arteries .
calcification ,  that is ,  pathological deposition of calcium salts in the tunica media of medium - sized  ( muscular or distributive )  arteries .
calcification ,  that is ,  pathological deposition of calcium salts in the tunica media of small arteries .
a headache disorder that occurs exclusively at night ,  waking the affected individual from sleep .
a structural anomaly of the inferior portion of the vermis of cerebellum .
the presence of bacteria in the urine .
involuntary and irregular twitches of the chin .
an above normal level of saturation of serum transferrin with iron .
a below normal level of saturation of serum transferrin with iron .
an increased level of iron in liver tissues .
longstanding impairment in ventilation such that the partial pressure of carbon dioxide  ( paco2 )  is elevated above the upper limit of the reference range  ( more than 45 mm hg )  ,  with a normal or near - normal ph secondary to renal compensation and an elevated serum bicarbonate levels  ( more than30 meq / l )  .
sudden onset of impairment in ventilation such that the removal of carbon dioxide by the respiratory system is less than the production of carbon dioxide in the tissues ,  leading to an elevation of the partial pressure of carbon dioxide  ( paco2 )  above the normal limits  ( more than 45 mm hg )  with an accompanying acidemia  ( ph less than 7 .35 )  .
longstanding abnormal acid accumulation or depletion of base .
infantile spasms represent a subset of  \ "epileptic spasms \ " .
an ophthalmologic sign in young children resulting from upward - gaze paresis .
increased width of the skin of vermilion border region of upper lip .
a turning outward of the lip or lips ,  that is ,  eversion of the lips .
wasting of the tongue .
complete obstruction of a carotid artery .
the presence of normal overall immunoglobulin levels with deficiency of specific immunoglobulins directed against a specific antigen or microorganism .
the presence of normal overall immunoglobulin levels with deficiency of specific immunoglobulins directed against pneumococci .
a wavering ,  unsteady voice that reflects involuntary and approximately sinusoidal oscillation of motor unit firings of laryngeal muscles .
bony fusion of the mandibular condyle to the base of the skull ,  resulting in limitation of jaw opening .
noises from the temporomandibular joint during mandibular movement  ( e .g . ,  chewing )  .
an anomaly of cerebral veins .
a congenital malformation of veins which drain normal brain characterized by a caput medusae or an umbrellalike convergence of multiple venules on a single ,  or occasionally multiple ,  enlarged parenchymal or medullary vein ,  like the trunk of a tree or the shank of an umbrella .
a venous angioma of the frontal lobe of the brain .
defective structure ,  size or content of alpha granules ,  platelet organelles that contain several growth factors destined for release during platelet activation at sites of vessel wall injury .
defective structure ,  size or content of dense granules ,  platelet organelles that contain granules proaggregatory factors such as adenosine diphosphate  ( adp )  ,  adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  ,  ionized calcium  ,  histamine and serotonin .
an anomaly of the invaginations of the surface membrane that form the open canalicular system  ( ocs )  .
inflammation of the spinal cord .
an arachnoid cyst located at the margin of the cerebellum and pons .
an arachnoid cyst located within the ventricular system .
an arachnoid cyst that progressively enlarges from an abnormality in the membrane of liliequist or in the interpeduncular cistern ,  and typically ,  expands from the prepontine space ,  displacing the floor of the third ventricle upwards ,  the pituitary stalk and optic chiasm upwards and forwards ,  and the mammillary bodies upwards and backwards .
inflammation of adipose tissue .
an anomaly of the intracellular membrane complexes known as the dense tubular system .
narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of a cerebral artery .
narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of the middle cerebral artery .
narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of the anterior cerebral artery .
narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of the posterior cerebral artery .
a decrease in the maximum amount of negative pressure a person can generate during an inhalation .
a decrease in the maximum amount of pressure of expired air achieved by a person after a full inspiration .
a complication of pregnancy and delivery in which the umbilical cord wraps around the fetal neck once or multiple times .
a separation of the layers within the wall of the descending aorta .
a wartlike  ( with multiple small elevated projections )  papule .
an anomaly of the white matter of brainstem .
an anomaly of the internal capsule ,  which is an area of white matter in the brain that separates the caudate nucleus and the thalamus from the putamen and the globus pallidus .
an anomaly of the pituitary gland .
a deviation from the normal size of the pituitary gland .
an abnormally increased size of the pituitary gland .
an abnormally decreased size of the pituitary gland .
reduced strength of the orbicularis oculi ,  the circumorbital muscle in the face that closes the eyelid .
a visual anomaly in which images appear distorted .
an abnormally decreased amount of thyroxin - binding globulin  ( tbg )  in blood .
an increased amount of cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  in the subarachnoid space .
a pale yellow discoloration of the temporal  ( lateral )  portion of the optic disc .
a pale yellow discoloration of the entire optic disc .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the arm .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the leg .
reduced ability to flex the femur ,  that is ,  to pull the knee upward .
an extreme form of tetralogy of fallot characterized by absence of flow from the right ventricle to the pulmonary arteries .
an abnormally decreased amount of catalase level .
an anomaly of the circle of willis ,  also known as the cerebral arterial circle .
underdeveloped posterior communicating artery .
increased dimensions of the virchow - robin spaces  ( also known as perivascular spaces )  ,  which surround the walls of vessels as they course from the subarachnoid space through the brain parenchyma .
congenital absence of the optic nerve .
a form of telangiectasis characterized by a central elevated red dot the size of a pinhead ,  representing an arteriole ,  with numerous small blood vessels that radiate out thereby resembling the legs of a spider .
reluctance or refusal of a child to be breastfed or eat ,  manifested as gagging ,  vomiting ,  turning head away from food ,  or avoidance of sensation in or around the mouth  ( i .e .
a deviation from the normal discoid platelet shape .
an anomalous location and arrangement of platelet alpha granules .
a lack of platelet alpha granules .
a deviation from the normal contents of the platelet alpha granules ,  which normally contain hemostatic proteins such as fibrinogen ,  von willebrand factor ,  and growth factors such as platelet - derived growth factor .
a deviation from the normal count of alpha granules per thrombocyte .
a deviation from the normal contents of the platelet alpha granules ,  which normally contain adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  ,  adenosine diphosphate  ( adp )  ,  serotonin ,  calcium ,  and pyrophosphate ,  which are secreted when platelets are activated .
a deviation from the normal count of dense granules per thrombocyte .
an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue damage ,  or described in terms of such damage .
persistent pain ,  usually defined as pain that has lasted longer than 3 to 6 months .
pain due to a stimulus that does not normally provoke pain .
abnormal sensations with no apparent physical cause that are painful or unpleasant .
an anomaly in the communication from a neuron to a target across a synapse .
the presence of circulating autoantibodies to anticardiolipin in the mother .
a detrimental reaction to a food ,  beverage ,  food additive ,  or compound found in foods that produces symptoms in one or more body organs and systems that is not mediated by an immune reaction .
a detrimental reaction to the presence of gluten in food ,  which may include abdominal pain ,  fatigue ,  headaches and paresthesia ,  or celiac disease .
a type of lymphoma characterized microscopically by the absence of multinucleated reed - sternberg cells .
an epidermoid cyst in the armpit .
hemorrhage between the skull and periosteum of a newborn resulting from rupture of blood vessels that cross the periosteum .
thickened nails without deformity .
the presence of hemosiderin in the urine .
an increased concentration of fructose 1 , 6 - bisphosphate aldolase in the serum .
an decreased concentration of fructose 1 , 6 - bisphosphate aldolase in the serum .
a deviation from equal  ( 50% )  inactivation of each parental x chromosome in maternal cells .
anomalous movements of the eyes that occur without the subject wanting them to happen .
muscle fibers degeneration resulting in fatty replacement of skeletal muscle fibers
a lipoma  ( a benign tumor composed of adipose tissue )  located in the conjunctiva .
the presence of varices  ( enlarged and convoluted blood vessels )  in the colon .
lack of specific granules in neutrophils .
presence of an elevated number of projections from nuclei of neutrophils .
a thumbnail that is diminished in length and width ,  i .e . ,  underdeveloped thumb nail .
absence of thumb nail .
absent nail of big toe .
increased concentration of beta - alanine in the blood .
eeg with focal sharp transient waves in the centrotemporal region of the brain  ( also known as the central sulcus )  ,  i .e . ,  focal sharp waves of a duration less than 80 msec followed by a slow wave .
a ratio of serum triiodothyronine  ( t3 )  to thyroxine  ( t4 )  in the blood that deviates from normal .
a ratio of serum triiodothyronine  ( t3 )  to thyroxine  ( t4 )  in the blood that is higher than normal .
a ratio of serum triiodothyronine  ( t3 )  to thyroxine  ( t4 )  in the blood that is lower than normal .
the presence of an aortic valve with one instead of the normal three cusps  ( flaps )  .
stop of growth at the epiphyseal plate the hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at one or more long bones in the hand ,  at an earlier than normal age ,  resulting in growth arrest and shortening of the involved bone .
stop of growth at the epiphyseal plate the hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at one or more long bones in the foot ,  at an earlier than normal age ,  resulting in growth arrest and shortening of the involved bone .
stop of growth at the epiphyseal plate the hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at one or more long bones in the tibia ,  at an earlier than normal age ,  resulting in growth arrest and shortening of the involved bone .
stop of growth at the epiphyseal plate the hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at one or more long bones in the fibula ,  at an earlier than normal age ,  resulting in growth arrest and shortening of the involved bone .
stop of growth at the epiphyseal plate the hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at one or more long bones in the radius ,  at an earlier than normal age ,  resulting in growth arrest and shortening of the involved bone .
stop of growth at the epiphyseal plate the hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at one or more long bones in the ulna ,  at an earlier than normal age ,  resulting in growth arrest and shortening of the involved bone .
edema in the region of the lower eyelid .
first period after the age of 15 years .
a type of mesenchymal tissue cell tumor that exhibits epithelial differentiation ,  which most frequently arises in the extremities .
a partial duplication of the ureter where the duplicated ureters fuse to a single ureter before their insertion into the bladder .
a complete duplication of the ureter ,  where the duplicated ureters have separate insertions into the bladder .
a type of proximal renal tubulopathy characterized by resorption defects leading to glycosuria ,  aminoaciduria ,  tubular proteinuria ,  renal hypophosphatemia ,  and urate tubular hyporeabsorption with bicarbonate loss and resulting acidosis .
increased numbers of mesangial cells per glomerulus ,  defined as four or more nuclei in a peripheral mesangial segment .
a structural anomaly of the nephron .
the presence of complement 3 deposits in the glomerulus .
reduction in thickness of the basal lamina of the glomerulus of the kidney .
a type of glomerulonephropathy characterized by thickening of the basement membrane and deposition of immune complexes in the subepithelial space .
the presence of minimal changes visible by light microscopy but flattened and fused podocyte foot processes on electron microscopy in a person with nephrotic range proteinuria .
the presence of calcium -  and phosphate - containing calculi  ( stones )  in the kidneys .
an isolated cyst of the kidney .
a bilateral form of developmental dysplasia of the kidney .
one sided hypoplasia of the kidney .
two sided hypoplasia of the kidney .
atrophy of the kidney .
a two - sided form of atrophy of the kidney .
hematuria that is visible upon inspection of the urine .
a form of nephrotic syndrome that does not respond to treatment with steroid medication .
a form of nephrotic syndrome that does not respond to any immunosuppresive treatment .
an abnormal amount of urine production .
an abnormality in the concentration of electrolytes in the urine .
increased concentration of albumin in the urine .
severely increased amount of excretion of protein in the urine ,  defined as 3 .5 grams per day or more in adults and 40 mg per meter - squared body surface area per hour in children .
the presence of moderately increased concentrations of albumin in the urine ,  defined as and albumin - creatinine ratio  ( acr )  of 30 to 299 mg / gm  ( 3 .4 to 34 mg / mmol )  .
mildly increased levels of protein in the urine  ( 150 - 500 mg per day in adults )  .
moderately increased levels of protein in the urine  ( 500 - 1000 mg per day in adults )  .
severely increased levels of protein in the urine  ( 1000 - 3000 mg per day in adults )  .
an abnormal concentration of potassium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormal phosphate concentration in the urine .
an abnormal concentration of chloride in the urine .
an decreased concentration of chloride in the urine .
high urine chloride in the presence of hypochloridemia .
an abnormal concentration of sodium in the urine .
an abnormally decreased sodium concentration in the urine .
an increased concentration of sodium ( 1 +  )  in the urine .
an abnormally increased sodium concentration in the urine in the presence of hyponatremia .
an abnormal concentration of magnesium the urine .
an increased concentration of magnesium the urine .
an decreased concentration of magnesium the urine .
abnormal concentration of urate in the urine .
elevated concentration of urate in the urine .
abnormal concentration of sulfate in the urine .
elevated concentration of so4 ( 2 -  )  ,  i .e . ,  sulfate ,  in the urine .
an anomalous finding in the examination of the urine for cells .
the presence of renal casts  ( cylindrical ,  cigar - shaped structures produced by the kidney in certain disease states )  in the urine .
presence of leukocyte casts  ( cylindrical structures produced by the kidney in certain disease states )  in the urine .
presence of erythrocyte casts  ( cylindrical structures produced by the kidney in certain disease states )  in the urine .
a cyst located along the allantois canal .
presence of a many diverticula  ( sac or pouch )  in the wall of the urinary bladder .
a developmental anomaly associated with the failure of rectum ,  vagina ,  and bladder to separate .
developmental anomaly in which the vagina ,  bladder ,  and rectum fuse resulting in a common channel .
functional anomaly of the kidney persisting for at least three months .
a type of chronic kidney disease with normal or increased glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr at least 90 ml / min / 1 .73 m2 )  .
a type of chronic kidney disease with mildly reduced glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr 60 - 89 ml / min / 1 .73 m2 )  .
a type of chronic kidney disease with moderately reduced glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr 30 - 59 ml / min / 1 .73 m2 )  .
a type of chronic kidney disease with severely reduced glomerular filtration rate  ( gfr 15 - 29 ml / min / 1 .73 m2 )  .
deposition of fibrillar material that can be found on all anterior segment structures bathed by aqueous humor .
an anomaly of the suspensory ligament of lens ,  also known as the ciliary zonule .
tremulousness  ( trembling )  of the lens of the eye .
an anomaly of the trabecular meshwork ,  which is the porelike structure surrounding the entire circumference of the anterior chamber at the base of the cornea and near the ciliary body .
accumulation of abnormal amounts of pigment within the trabecular meshwork .
an anomaly in the amount of force per unit area exerted by the intraocular fluid within the eye .
a difference in the amount of intraocular pressure in the right and left eye .
shedding of the pigment granules that normally adhere to the back of the iris into the aqueous humor .
reduction in the amount of blood flow to the iris .
blockage of the retinal vein .
high urine calcium in the presence of hypocalcemia .
a functional anomaly of the nervous system .
a structural anomaly of the nervous system .
a deviation from the norm of the intracranial pressure .
a reduction of the pressure inside the cranium  ( skull )  and thereby in the brain tissue and cerebrospinal fluid .
lack of development of the cerebellum .
decreased amount of pigmentation in the fovea centralis .
an elevated concentration of lactate in the caudate nucleus .
increase in size of a peripheral nerve .
a testis that is located at the upper scrotum or lower inguinal canal and that can be made to descend completely into the scrotum without resistance by manual reduction but returns to its original position by the cremasteric reflex .
any anomaly of the inflammatory response ,  a response to injury or infection characterized by local vasodilation ,  extravasation of plasma into intercellular spaces and accumulation of white blood cells and macrophages .
an abnormal reduction in the inflammatory response to injury or infection .
a abnormal increase in the inflammatory response to injury or infection .
polymicrogyria  ( an excessive number of small gyri or convolutions )  that is maximal in perisylvian regions  ( the regions that surround the sylvian fissures )  ,  which may be symmetric or asymmetric and may extend beyond perisylvian regions .
a severe form of gait ataxia such that an affected person cannot walk at all .
asthma attacks following exercise .
severe asthma unresponsive to repeated courses of beta - agonist therapy such as inhaled albuterol ,  levalbuterol ,  or subcutaneous epinephrine .
abnormal concentration of dopamine in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
increased concentration of dopamine in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
decreased concentration of dopamine in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
a functional brain anomaly detectable by positron emission tomography  ( pet )  .
an anomaly detectable in  [ 18f ]  - fluorodeoxyglucose  ( fdg )  positron emission tomography  ( pet )  brain scans .
reduced uptake of  [ 18f ]  - fluorodeoxyglucose  ( fdg )  in the prefrontal cortex as measured by positron emission tomography  ( pet )  brain scan .
reduced uptake of  [ 18f ]  - fluorodeoxyglucose  ( fdg )  in the thalamus as measured by positron emission tomography  ( pet )  brain scan .
reduced uptake of  [ 18f ]  - fluorodeoxyglucose  ( fdg )  in the hypothalamus as measured by positron emission tomography  ( pet )  brain scan .
reduced uptake of  [ 18f ]  - fluorodeoxyglucose  ( fdg )  in the parietal cortex as measured by positron emission tomography  ( pet )  brain scan .
a small reduction in the fraction of blood pumped from the left ventricle with each cardiac cycle .
a diminution of the volumetric fraction of blood pumped out of the ventricle with each cardiac cycle .
a medium reduction in the fraction of blood pumped from the left ventricle with each cardiac cycle .
a large reduction in the fraction of blood pumped from the left ventricle with each cardiac cycle .
an abnormal motion of a segment of the left ventricle during the cardiac cycle .
an exaggerated response to carotid sinus baroreceptor stimulation resulting in syncope from transient diminished cerebral perfusion .
syncope following a quick change in position from lying down to standing .
poverty of behavior and speech output ,  lack of initiative ,  loss of emotional responses ,  psychomotor slowing ,  and prolonged speech latency .
akinetic mutism is essentially characterized by a total absence of spontaneous behavior and speech occurring in the presence of preserved visual tracking .
a failure to develop of the upper vagina .
a failure to develop of the lower part of the vagina .
an abnormal build up of iron  ( fe )  in brain tissue .
an anomalous build up of copper  ( cu )  in the brain .
an abnormal build up of iron  ( fe )  in the globus pallidus .
an anomalous build up of iron  ( fe )  in the substantia nigra .
an increase in the distance between vertebral pedicles ,  which are the two short ,  thick processes ,  which project backward ,  one on either side ,  from the upper part of the vertebral body ,  at the junction of its posterior and lateral surfaces .
an anomaly of the pineal gland , a small endocrine gland in the brain that produces melatonin .
a structural abnormality of the pineal gland .
accumulation of calcium salts in the pineal gland .
a glial uniloculated or multiloculated fluid - filled sac that either reside within or completely replace the pineal gland .
an abnormal increase or decrease in the quantity of three - dimensional space taken up by the pineal gland .
an abnormal reduction in the quantity of three - dimensional space taken up by the pineal gland .
an abnormal elevation in the quantity of three - dimensional space taken up by the pineal gland .
failure to develop of the pineal gland ,  defined clinically as the absence of the pineal gland with no indication of the pineal gland even having been present .
a functional abnormality of the pineal gland .
an anomaly in the amount or timing of melatonin secretion by the pineal gland .
a darker than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the thalamus .
a darker than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the thalamus .
a lighter than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the thalamus .
deviation from the normal range of size of the thalamus .
an increase in the quantity of space occupied by the thalamus .
a reduction in the quantity of space occupied by the thalamus .
a deviation from normal signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the thalamus .
decreased size of the basal ganglia .
focal proliferation of glial cells in the cerebellum .
a structural abnormality of a diaphysis of the leg .
a functional anomaly of the large intestine .
a sudden ,  irresistible need to have a bowel movement .
a repeated ,  painful urge to defecate without excreting stool .
abnormality in the space in the meninges beneath the arachnoid membrane and above the pia mater that contains the cerebrospinal fluid .
an increase in size of the anatomic space between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater .
an anomaly of metabolism in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
an increase in the level of choline - containing compounds in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
an increase in the level of lactate in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a decrease in the level of n - acetyl aspartate in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a deviation from normal in the ratio of choline to creatine in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
excessive growth of a nail laterally into the nail fold .
a delay in the process of formation and maturation of the epiphysis of one or more vertebrae .
the presence of a mild form of hearing impairment .
the presence of a moderate form of hearing impairment .
a severe form of hearing impairment .
a profound  ( essentially complete )  form of hearing impairment .
the presence of a moderate form of conductive hearing impairment .
a severe form of conductive hearing impairment .
abnormal structure of the gastrointestinal tract .
abnormal functionality of the gastrointestinal tract .
tumor  ( an abnormal mass of tissue resulting from abnormally dividing cells )  of the nasal cavity .
a vascular malformation resulting from a developmental error of venous tissue composed of dysmorphic channels lined by flattened endothelium and exhibiting slow turnover .
impaired conduction of cardiac impulse occurring anywhere along the conduction pathway .
disturbance in the atrial activation that is caused by transient failure of impulse conduction from the sinoatrial node to the cardiac atria .
edema in the region of the upper eyelid .
a soft tissue continuity in the a / p axis between two digits that extends distally to at least the level of the proximal interphalangeal joints ,  or a soft tissue continuity in the a / p axis between two digits that lies significantly distal to the flexion crease that overlies the metacarpophalangeal or metatarsophalangeal joint of the adjacent digits .
an abnormally decreased potassium concentration in the blood occurring periodically with a return to normal between the episodes .
an abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the thoracic aorta .
a concentric abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the descending thoracic aorta that involves the full circumference of the vessel wall
an eccentric abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the descending thoracic aorta that involves only a portion of the circumference of the vessel wall
absence of the tongue owing to a developmental abnormality .
abnormal anatomic location of the anterior pituitary gland .
an abnormality of the anus or rectum .
a flat ,  distinct ,  discolored area of skin less than 1 cm wide that does not involve any change in the thickness or texture of the skin .
low blood glucose is accompanied by elevated levels of ketone bodies in the body .
a sudden ,  audible expulsion of air from the lungs through a partially closed glottis ,  preceded by inhalation .
a profound delay in the achievement of motor or mental milestones in the domains of development of a child .
a discrete abnormal tissue mass that protrudes into the lumen of the small intestine and is attached to the intestinal wall either by a stalk ,  pedunculus ,  or a broad base .
agenesis of canine tooth .
failure to develop of the small intestine .
a tumor of the skin or mucous membrane with finger - like projections .
absence of a testis from the scrotum on one side owing to failure of the testis or testes to descend through the inguinal canal to the scrotum .
fingernail that appears thin when viewed on end .
excessive fat around the stomach and abdomen .
failure of the femur to develop .
distance between the medial and lateral canthi is more than 2 sd below the mean for age  ( objective )  ;  or ,  apparently reduced length of the palpebral fissures .
toenail that appears thin when viewed on end .
a deviation from normal signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the brainstem .
a lighter than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the brainstem .
a darker than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the brainstem .
a darker than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the brainstem .
a deviation from normal signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the basal ganglia .
a darker than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the basal ganglia .
a darker than expected t2 signal on magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the basal ganglia .
increased amount of myelin in the central nervous system .
abnormal increase in size of the brainstem .
an increased polymorphonuclear cell count in the cerebrospinal fluid .
a structural anomaly of a neuron .
a deviation from normal of the neurological development of a child ,  which may include any or all of the aspects of the development of personal ,  social ,  gross or fine motor ,  and cognitive abilities .
a reduced ability to participate in the back and forth flow of social interaction ,  which is normally characterized by an influence of the behavior of one person on the behavior of another person who is in conversation with the first .
a developmental anomaly in which the mastoid process fails to form and is thus found to be congenitally absent .
the presence of atrophy  ( wasting )  of the cerebral white matter .
a sudden attack of dyspnea that occurs while the affected person is at rest .
a sensation of breathlessness in the recumbent position ,  relieved by sitting or standing .
an increase in size of the anatomic space between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater in the region surrounding the cerebellum .
an increase in size of the anatomic space between the arachnoid membrane and pia mater in the region surrounding the cerebrum .
a deviation from normal size of the placenta .
respiratory failure in the newborn .
a deviation from normal of the length of the arm span  ( length from one end of an individual's arms measured at the fingertips to the other when raised parallel to the ground at shoulder height at a one - hundred eighty degree angle ) 
decreased length of the arm span  ( length from one end of an individual's arms measured at the fingertips to the other when raised parallel to the ground at shoulder height at a one - hundred eighty degree angle )  .
increased length of the arm span  ( length from one end of an individual's arms measured at the fingertips to the other when raised parallel to the ground at shoulder height at a one - hundred eighty degree angle )  .
a deviation from normal of the relation between the upper and the lower segment of the body ,  where the lower segment is defined as the length between the top of pubic symphysis to floor ,  and the upper segment is defined as the top of head to top of pubic symphysis .
decreased ratio between the upper and the lower segment of the body ,  where the lower segment is defined as the length between the top of pubic symphysis to floor ,  and the upper segment is defined as the top of head to top of pubic symphysis .
elevated ratio between the upper and the lower segment of the body ,  where the lower segment is defined as the length between the top of pubic symphysis to floor ,  and the upper segment is defined as the top of head to top of pubic symphysis .
a lacy pattern or iris pigmentation that resembles the spokes of a bicycle wheel .
a structural anomaly of the ciliary body .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the retina .
a glial tumor of the retinal nerve fiber layer arising from a retinal astrocyte .
hearing loss that occurs acutely and resolves completely .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the ear .
a type of hearing impairment affecting primarily the middle frequencies of sound  ( 1000 hz to 3000 hz )  .
a type of nephrogenic rest associated with multiple lesions in the periphery of the renal lobe .
a type of nephrogenic rest usually representing single lesions within the renal lobe ,  renal sinus ,  or calyceal walls .
inflammation of the connective and adipose tissues surrounding the kidney .
chronic loss of joint motion in a finger due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
repeated infections of the urinary bladder .
repeated episodes of pyelonephritis .
a net - like pattern of increased pigmentation of the oral cavity .
underdevelopment of the heel bone .
an anomaly in the process of intramembranous ossification by which flat bones  ( cranial bones of the skull ,  i .e . ,  the frontal ,  parietal ,  occipital ,  and temporal bones ,  and the clavicles )  are formed .
an anomaly of the process of formation of bone in the humerus .
a lack of bone mineralization of one or more body of thoracic vertebra .
a kinked appearance of the brainstem ,  i .e . ,  an exaggerated flexure .
multiple areas of darker than expected signal on magnetic resonance imaging emanating from the cerebral white matter that surrounds the cerebral ventricles .
a morphological abnormality of the optic disc ,  i .e . ,  of the portion of the optic nerve clinically visible on fundoscopic examination .
an elevation in the ratio of the diameter of the cup of the optic disc to the total diameter of the disc .
a benign or malignant neoplasm arising from the lymphatic vessels .
infiltration of smooth muscle - like cells in lymph vessels as well as the lung  ( pleura ,  alveolar septa ,  bronchi ,  pulmonary vessels and lymphatics as well as lymph nodes ,  especially in posterior mediastinum and retroperitoneum )  .
one - sided weakness of the muscles of facial expression and eye closure .
a cranial suture that is in addition to canonical membrane - covered openings in the incompletely ossified skull of the fetus or newborn infant .
bigonial distance  ( lower facial width )  more than 2 standard deviations below the mean  ( objective )  ;  or an apparently decreased width of the lower jaw  ( mandible )  when viewed from the front  ( subjective )  .
bigonial distance  ( lower facial width )  more than 2 sd above the mean  ( objective )  ;  or an apparently increased width of the lower jaw  ( mandible )  when viewed from the front  ( subjective )  .
inequality of refractive power of the two eyes .
disruption of the epithelial layer of the cornea with involvement of the underlying stroma .
transmission of light through the iris as visualized upon slit lamp examination or infrared iris transillumination videography .
a fleshy ,  tube - like structure usually located in the midline of the face or just to one side of the midline .
insertion of the posterior columella superior to the nasal base .
an anomaly of the nasal base ,  which can be conceived of as an imaginary line between the most lateral points of the external inferior attachments of the alae nasi to the face .
decreased distance between the attachments of the alae nasi to the face .
increased distance between the attachments of the alae nasi to the face .
increased width of the nasal ridge .
increased bulk of tissue alongside the nose .
underdevelopment of the breast on one side only .
underdevelopment of the breast on both sides .
underdevelopment of part or all of the female external reproductive organs  ( which include the mons pubis ,  labia majora ,  labia minora ,  bartholin glands ,  and clitoris )  .
a predominantly right ventricular variant of isolated noncompaction cardiomyopathy .
a type of cardiomyopathy characterized anatomically by deep trabeculations in the ventricular wall ,  which define recesses communicating with the main ventricular chamber .
noncompaction cardiomyopathy that affects both ventricles .
inflammation of the myocardium .
a loss of the ability to move the vocal fold on both sides .
decreased strength of the vocal fold on one side .
decreased strength of the vocal fold on both sides .
this subontology is designed to provide terms to characterize and specify the phenotypic abnormalities defined in the phenotypic abnormality subontology ,  with respect to severity ,  laterality ,  age of onset ,  and other aspects .
the intensity or degree of a manifestation .
having a relatively minor degree of severity .
having a medium degree of severity .
having a minor degree of severity that is considered to be on the boundary between the normal and the abnormal ranges .
having a high degree of severity .
having an extremely high degree of severity .
the anatomical localization of the specified phenotypic abnormality .
the localization with respect to the side of the body of the specified phenotypic abnormality .
being present on both sides of the body .
being present on only the left or only the right side of the body .
being located on the right side of the body .
being located on the left side of the body .
the pattern by which a phenotype affects one or more regions of the body .
affecting all regions without specificity of distribution .
being confined or restricted to a particular location .
localized away from the central point of the body .
localized close to the central point of the body .
the presence of an increased number of twists and turns of the retinal blood vessels .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the hair follicles ,  sebaceous glands ,  or sweat glands .
an uncontrolled autonomous cell - proliferation originating in a hair follicle ,  which is an epidermal adnexal structures responsible for hair growth .
a benign tumour originating from the outer root sheath of the hair follicle .
presence of a unitary trichilemmoma ,  a benign tumour originating from the outer root sheath of the hair follicle .
presence of multiple trichilemmomata ,  a benign tumour originating from the outer root sheath of the hair follicle .
epilepsia partialis continua  ( also called kojevnikov's or kozhevnikov's epilepsia )  is a type of focal motor status epilepticus characterized by repeated stereotyped simple motor manifestations such as jerks ,  typically of a limb or the face ,  recurring every few seconds or minutes for extended periods  ( days or years )  .
the narrowing or partial blockage of a portion of the small intestine .
bleeding from the small intestine .
abnormal small intestinal contractions ,  such as spasms and intestinal paralysis related to the loss of the ability of the gut to coordinate muscular activity because of endogenous or exogenous causes .
a narrowing of a segment of colon whereby bowel continuity is maintained .
hepatic fibrosis that reaches from a portal area to another portal area .
hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the scrotum .
hypospadias with location of the urethral meatus in the middle of the inferior shaft of the penis .
increased pigmentation  ( skin color )  of the scrotum .
anomaly of the folded ridges  ( wrinkles )  of skin of the scrotum .
increased number or density of the folded ridges  ( wrinkles )  of skin of the scrotum .
decreased number or density of the folded ridges  ( wrinkles )  of skin of the scrotum .
a white patch or plaque occurring on the surface of the esophageal mucous membranes that cannot be rubbed off and cannot be characterized clinically as any other disease .
formation of excess connective tissue in the testicle .
a gonad that contains both ovarian follicles and testicular tubular elements .
any structural anomaly of a reproductive cell .
a structural anomaly of a male reproductive cell .
a structural anomaly of sperm .
a structural abnormality of the sperm head .
a structural abnormality of the sperm neck .
a structural abnormality of the sperm mid - piece .
a structural abnormality of the sperm tail .
spermatozoa with very small cranial ends devoid of any nuclear material ,  that is ,  lacking a typical sperm head .
a condition which is considered to be due to the subsequent atrophy and disappearance in fetal life of an initially normal testis .
a varicocele is a widening of the veins along the spermatic cord ,  leading to enlarged ,  twisted veins in the scrotum ,  and manifested clinically by a painless testicle lump ,  scrotal swelling ,  or bulge in the scrotum .
a structural anomaly of the secretory duct of the testicle that carries spermatozoa from the epididymis to the prostatic urethra where it terminates to form ejaculatory duct .
aplasia  ( congenital absence )  of the vas deferens .
an abnormal functionality of the male genital system .
abnormality in the process of ejection of semen  ( usually carrying sperm )  from the male reproductive tract .
the emission of semen and seminal fluid during the act of preparation for sexual intercourse ,  i .e .
the emission of semen and seminal fluid into the bladder instead of through the penis during orgasm .
difficulty of a male in achieving orgasm .
inability to ejaculate .
an anomaly of the labia minora ,  the folds of skin between the outer labia .
an anomaly of the outer labia .
overgrowth of the outer labia .
a fluid filled sac located in the fallopian tube .
a twisting of the fallopian tube .
the presence of a supernumerary fallopian tube .
an abdominal mass formed by bleeding into a follicular ovarian cyst or corpus luteum cyst .
a cystic tumor of the ovary ,  containing thin ,  clear ,  yellow serous fluid and varying amounts of solid tissue .
an anomaly of the neck of the uterus  ( lower part of the uterus )  ,  called the uterine cervix .
abnormal growth of endometrial cells  ( which are normally limited to the uterus )  within the cervix .
posterior malposition of the anus .
hair on the neck extends less inferiorly than usual .
hypertrophy of one or more muscles innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the muscles of the neck .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the paraspinal muscles .
muscle hypertrophy affecting the scapular muscles .
an anomaly identified by motor evoked potentials  ( meps )  .
an anomaly identified by motor evoked potentials  ( meps )  in the arm .
an anomaly identified by motor evoked potentials  ( meps )  in the leg .
difficulty releasing one's grip associated with prolonged first handgrip relaxation times .
slowed relaxation of muscles in the face .
slowed relaxation of muscles in the jaw .
slowed relaxation of muscles in the leg .
slowed relaxation of muscles in the arm .
an involuntary and painless delay in the relaxation of skeletal muscle following contraction or electrical stimulation that is induced by exposure to cold .
euryblepharon is a congenital eyelid anomaly characterized by horizontal enlargement of the palpebral fissure .
a coloboma of the ciliary body .
a spatial pattern that is spread out ,  i .e . ,  not localized .
a lack of coordination of leg movement manifested by undershoot or overshoot of the intended position of the leg .
a lack of coordination of arm movement manifested by undershoot or overshoot of the intended position of the arm .
a postural abnormality characterized by the inability to stand without external support despite having sufficient muscle strength .
elongation ,  dilatation ,  and / or tortuosity of the vertebrobasilar segment .
a type of incomitant strabismus in which both elevator muscles  ( i .e . ,  the inferior oblique and superior rectus muscles )  of the same eye are weak leading to restricted elevation and hypotropia .
an ocular movement abnormality characterised by simultaneous weakness of the inferior rectus muscle and superior oblique muscle of the same eye .
a type of incomitant strabismus in which the angle of deviation varies as the patient's gaze shifts upwards and / or downwards .
a manifest or latent ocular deviation in which one or both eyes tends to deviate nasally .
a form of esotropia  ( convergent deviation of the eyes )  associated with activation of the accommodative reflex .
any structural anomaly of a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
a reduction in the numbers of pro - b cells  ( defined by coexpression of cd34 and cd19 )  .
a manifest or latent ocular deviation in which one or both eyes tends to deviate temporally .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react against granulocyte - macrophage colony stimulating factor .
any functional abnormality of erythrocytes  ( red - blood cells )  .
any deviation from the normal number of red blood cells per volume in the circulation .
an abnormal elevation above the normal number of red blood cells per volume in the circulation .
an abnormal reduction below the normal number of red blood cells per volume in the circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of hemoglobin in the blood .
an abnormal reduction below normal hemoglobin concentration in the circulation .
an abnormal elevation above normal hemoglobin concentration in the circulation .
any deviation from the normal number of eosinophils per volume in the blood circulation .
the presence of virus in the blood .
persistent presence of epstein - barr virus in the blood .
a white or lighter patch of skin that may appear anywhere on the body and are caused by decreased skin pigmentation .
the presence of crystals in the urine .
the presence of leuucine crystals in the urine .
a benign soft tissue tumor of the wrist usually found in the dorsal aspect of the wrist and communicate with the joint via a pedicle .
an elevated level of carnitine in the urine .
an increased level of alanine in the urine .
an increased level of beta - alanine in the urine .
nuclear or cytoplasmic aggregates of substances in red blood cells .
a type of erythrocyte inclusion characterized by basophilic stippling of erythrocytes ,  that is ,  by numerous very small coarse or fine blue granules within the cytoplasm with the additional stipulation that the stippled particles are due to iron granules  ( demonstrable by the prussian blue stain )  .
a type of erythrocyte inclusion composed of denatured hemoglobin .
an infection of a hair follicle that extends subcutaneously ,  forming an abscess .
a group of infected hair follicles ,  larger and deeper than a furuncle .
an infection resulting from live attenuated vaccines  ( lav )  ,  that is ,  a vaccine prepared from living viruses or bacteria that have been weakened under laboratory conditions .
local or regional infection with bacillus calmette - guerin  ( bcg )  following vaccination .
distant ,  or disseminated infection with bacillus calmette - guerin  ( bcg )  following vaccination .
infection with the measles virus of the live - attenuated vaccine .
infection with the rubella virus of the live - attenuated vaccine .
infection with live attenuated polio vaccine following vaccination .
infection with live attenuated rotavirus vaccine following vaccination .
repeated episodes of the formation of abscesses in organs .
clinical assessment of a requirement to treat with intravenous antibiotics over an unusually prolonged period of time .
increased susceptibility to streptococcal infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of streptococcal infections .
an infection by an encapsulated bacterial agent .
infection of the brain parenchyma with herpes simplex virus ,  resulting in inflammation of the brain parenchyma with neurologic dysfunction .
an unusually severe course of infection with human norovirus ,  previously known as norwalk virus .
an unusual fungal infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection by a fungal agent .
fungal infection characterized by invasion of host tissues .
an opportunistic disease caused by invasion of unicellular fungus pneumocystis jirovecii .
infection of the lungs with aspergillus .
an unusual protozoan infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection by a protozoal agent .
toxoplasmosis is a widespread parasitic infection that is frequently asymptomatic in immunocompetent patients .
an unusually severe infection due to giardia lamblia ,  also called giardia duodenalis or giardia intestinalis ,  which is a protozoan parasite of the small intestine that causes extensive morbidity worldwide .
an unusual helminthic infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection by a worm  ( helminth )  .
an unusual parasitic infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection by a parasite .
a partial or complete breakage of the continuity of a bone .
a deviation from the normal proportion of cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cells in circulation ,  relative to another population of cells .
an abnormally increased proportion of cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cells in circulation ,  relative to another population of cells .
an abnormally decreased proportion of cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cells in circulation ,  relative to another population of cells .
human papillomaviruses  ( hpvs )  are small oncogenic viruses .
underdeveloped hemidesmosomes at the dermoepidermal junction .
congenital absence of the radial artery .
a structural abnormality of the retinal nerve fiber layer
swelling  ( edema )  of the retinal nerve fibers .
a history of conception by an assisted reproductive technology such as in vitro fertilization  ( ivf )  ,  intracytoplasmic sperm injection  ( icsi )  ,  and cryopreservation .
red blood cells that appear to have parts of them bitten away .
a stiffening of the tympanic membrane due to calcification ,  typically presents as white plaque - like lesions ,  involving discrete regions of the tympanic membrane and / or middle ear .
avascular cystic elevations of the superior conjunctiva not related to ocular surgery or trauma .
a lump detected in the prostate .
a lump detected in the region that surrounds a joiny .
aplasia  ( congenital absence )  of the olfactory tract ,  which causes anosmia ,  a complete loss of the sense of smell .
any deviation of the concentration of one or more proteins in the urine .
an increased concentration of neutrophil gelatinase - associated lipocalin in the urine  ( there is no generally accepted threshold ,  but some studies choose a threshold of above 150 nanogram per milliliter )  .
abnormal structure of the basement membrane of the renal tubulus .
increase in thickness of the basement membrane of the tubulus of the kidney .
increase in size of the podocytes of the renal glomerulus .
abnormally increased count of neutrophils in urine .
a mesenchymal neoplasm characterized by solitary or multiple nodules involving the skin ,  striated muscles ,  bones and ,  sometimes ,  viscera .
the presence of circulating igg autoantibodies to cardiolipin .
the presence of circulating igm autoantibodies to cardiolipin .
medical history of a recent bite injury due to an animal .
medical history of a recent bite injury due to an insect .
medical history of a recent bite injury due to a tick .
an abnormal blood pressure discrepancy between the upper and lower extremities with the blood pressure measured in the legs being much higher than the blood pressure measure in the arms .
an abnormal blood pressure discrepancy between the upper and lower extremities with the blood pressure measured in the arms being much higher than the blood pressure measure in the legs .
a cyst in the trachea ,  whose wall is made up by tissue similar to the bronchial tree ,  including cartilage and smooth muscle ,  and is lined by secretory respiratory epithelium composed of cuboid or columnar ciliated epithelium .
the presence of calcium phosphate crystals in the urine .
the presence of calcium oxalate crystals in the urine .
the presence of calcium carbonate crystals in the urine .
increased concentration of 2 - methylbutyryl glycine in the urine .
an abnormally elevated concentration od mead acid in the blood circulation .
an increase concentration of succinate in the blood circulation .
an increased amount of uromodulin  ( also known as tamm horsfall protein )  in the urine .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against dna .
lack of stability of a distal joint  ( e .g . ,  finger )  .
beta - 1 , 3 - glucan is a major constituent of all of the characterized fungal cell walls ,  making up between 30 - 80 percent of the mass of the wall .
a type of epidermal nevus characterized by closely arranged ,  dilated follicular openings with keratinous plugs resembling classical comedones .
an abnormal structure of the female germ cell  ( egg cell )  .
abnormal structure of the oocyte extracellular matrix region known as teh zona pellucida .
reduced thickness of the zona pellucida .
an increased concentration of adrenic acid  ( also known as cis - 7 , 10 , 13 , 16 - docosatetraenoic acid )  in the blood circulation .
failure of the gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  stimulation test to induce an appropriate increased in luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  ,  follicle - stimulating hormone  ( fsh )  levels .
cellular accumulation of gm1 gangliosides .
blockage of a branch of the retinal artery .
blockage of the cilioretinal artery .
a partial or complete obstruction of the ophthalmic artery  ( branch of the internal carotid artery )  that may lead to severe ischemia of the affected globe and associated ocular tissues .
blockage of a branch of the retinal vein .
central retinal vein occlusion is an occlusion of the main retinal vein posterior to the lamina cribrosa of the optic nerve and is typically caused by thrombosis .
a variant of central retinal vein occlusions that involves the superior or inferior half of the retina .
an anomlous response to a medication related to individual variation in metabolic or immune response to drugs varying from potentially from potentially life - threatening adverse drug reactions to alteration of therapeutic efficacy .
high plasma concentration of a drug as compared to previously measured thresholds given the expected concentration for the applied dosage regime .
low plasma concentration of a drug as compared to previously measured thresholds given the expected concentration for the applied dosage regime .
an unpleasant or harmful reaction resulting from treatment with a drug .
decreased response to a drug intervention in comparison to the expected response .
absent or significantly reduced efficacy of drug intervention characterized by lack of measurable benefit or deterioration of disease course .
a decreased amount of cholinesterase in the blood circulation .
an abnormal proportion of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta effector memory ra temra t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
a deviation from the normal count of dendritic cells in the peripheral blood circulation .
a deviation from the normal concentration of haptoglobin in the blood circulation .
an abnormally high concentration of haptoglobin in the blood circulation .
an abnormally low concentration of haptoglobin in the blood circulation .
a measurable change in circulating levels of atrial natriuretic peptide hormone ,  a protein which plays an important role in the regulation of body fluid volume and blood pressure .
a measurable elevation in circulating levels of atrial natriuretic peptide hormone ,  a protein which plays an important role in the regulation of body fluid volume and blood pressure .
a measurable reduction in circulating levels of atrial natriuretic peptide hormone ,  a protein which plays an important role in the regulation of body fluid volume and blood pressure .
abnormal morphological development of the superior part of the cerebellum .
the fetal spleen is lobulated ,  and these lobules normally disappear before the birth .
pachygyria with a very thick cerebral cortex measuring 10 - 20 mm .
pachygyria with cortical thickness between 5 and 10 mm with and a posterior predominant severety gradient .
pachygyria with cortical thickness above 10 mm with and a posterior predominant severety gradient .
pachygyria with cortical thickness greater than 10 mm and a perisylvian predominant severity gradient .
pachygyria with cortical thickness greater than 10 mm and an anterior predominant severity gradient .
pachygyria with a mildly thickend cerebral cortex measuring 5 - 10 mm .
an abnormally increased duration of the reptilase time .
an abnormal iga heavy chain in the circulation and typically produced by a clonal population of b - cell derived plasma cells .
an abnormal igg heavy chain in the circulation and typically produced by a clonal population of b - cell derived plasma cells .
an abnormal igm heavy chain in the circulation and typically produced by a clonal population of b - cell derived plasma cells .
an increased circulation of arachidonic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of 18 - hydroxycorticosterone level in the blood circulation .
a subnormal concentration of 18 - hydroxycorticosterone level in the blood circulation .
an abnormally elevated concentration of 18 - hydroxycorticosterone level in the blood circulation .
any structural anomaly of the sarcomere ,  which is unit of a myofibril in a muscle cell ,  composed of an array of overlapping thick and thin filaments between two adjacent z discs .
any structural anomaly of the z disc ,  which is the platelike region of a muscle sarcomere to which the plus ends of actin filaments are attached .
streaming or smearing of the z band ,  which is then no longer confined to a narrow zone which bisects the i band .
tubulointerstitial infiltration of bacteria identified on routine and / or special  ( brown - hopps )  stains .
tubulointerstitial infiltration of yeast or hyphal - microrganisms identified on routine and / or special  ( pas ,  silver )  stains .
the pinna has fewer folds and grooves than usual .
seizures precipitated by exogenous stimuli .
a seizure precipitated by aspects of anticipating food ,  eating itself ,  or the post - prandial period .
a seizure precipitated by pouring cupfuls of very hot water  ( 40 to 50 degrees celsius )  in rapid succession over the head .
a seizure precipitated by complex ,  cognition - guided tasks often involving visuomotor coordination and decision - making .
a seizure precipitated by movement or a change in posture .
a seizure precipitated by reading .
a somatosensory reflex seizure is a seizure precipitated by somatic stimulation of a specific part of the body in the absence of startle or surprise .
startle - induced seizures are triggered by multiple and non - specific stimuli  ( auditory ,  somatosensory ,  and rarely visual )  and are characterized by their sudden unexpected nature .
seizures induced by thinking and decision - making . \ ncomment:
seizures evoked by visual stimuli .
a type of focal motor seizure in which awareness is retained throughout the seizure .
a type of focal atonic seizure during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a motor seizure is a type of seizure that is characterized at onset by involvement of the skeletal musculature .
a focal seizure characterized at onset by sudden loss or diminution of muscle tone without apparent preceding myoclonic or tonic activity ,  typically lasting more than 500 ms but less than 2 seconds .
a clonic seizure is a type of motor seizure characterized by sustained rhythmic jerking ,  that is regularly repetitive .
osteoarthritis of the metatarsophalangeal joint of the first toe .
widening of the wall of capillary blood vessels in the glomerulus .
a structural anomaly of the capillary blood vessels in the renal glomerulus .
an abnormal anatomic position of the fovea ,  the small ,  central pit composed of closely packed cones that is located in the macula of the retina .
downward movement of the trachea during inspiration due to downward traction on the tracheobronchial tree .
the upper incisors deviate from the normal angle of being roughly parallel to the surface of the face and instead slant outwards .
partial or complete loss of foveal tissue that was once present .
narrowing of the anterior nasal aperture  ( piriform or pyriform aperture )  ,  which is a pear - shaped opening in the skull that forms the bony inlet of the nose .
diffusely widened perivascular spaces in the basal ganglia ,  affecting especially the corpus striatum .
a type of rigidity that is manifested by an exaggerated extensor posture of all extremities .
small ,  hard cyst - like nodules ,  freely moveable in the subcutis over the bony prominences of the legs and arms ,  which have an outer calcified layer with a translucent core on x - ray .
a structural anomaly of the tiny blood vessels that connect arterioles with venules and whose walls act as semipermeable membranes that mediate the diffusion of fluids and gases between the blood circulation and body tissues .
reduced resistance to rupture of capillary blood vessels .
a functional anomaly of the tiny blood vessels that connect arterioles with venules and whose walls act as semipermeable membranes that mediate the diffusion of fluids and gases between the blood circulation and body tissues .
sudden breakage of an artery leading to leakage of blood from the circulation .
an increased concentration of prostate specific antigen  ( psa )  in the circulation .
a deviation from normal range of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate  ( esr )  ,  a test that measures the distance that erythrocytes have fallen after one hour in a vertical column of anticoagulated blood under the influence of gravity .
a reduced erythrocyte sedimentation rate  ( esr )  .
a developmental defect resulting in complete obliteration of the lumen of the rectum .
an abnormal dilation of the rectum .
a congenital malformation characterized by an abnormal connection  ( fistula )  between the rectum and the vulval vestibule ,  at the lower aspect of the vaginal opening .
rectovestibular fistula with a normal anus is known as h - type fistula or double termination of the alimentary tract .
the term osteoma refers to the anomalous presence of ossification  ( bone formation )  in the interior of the dermis or epidermis .
a structural anomaly of nerves of the enteric nervous system .
deterioration of enteric neurons with impairment of enteric neuronal structure .
a functional anomaly of the digestive system .
a structural anomaly of the digestive system .
abnormal form of the progenitor cells committed to the erythroid lineage .
anomalous form of the proerythroblast ,  i .e . ,  the immature ,  nucleated erythrocyte occupying the stage of erythropoeisis that follows formation of erythroid progenitor cells .
focal proliferation of glial cells in the hypothalamus .
a collection of pus within a testicle .
swelling within the basal ganglia due to the accumulation of fluid .
swelling within the thalamus due to the accumulation of fluid .
calcium deposition in the thalamus .
a morphological anomaly of lymph nodes in the mesenteric root or throughout the mesentery .
increase in size of one or more mesenteric lymph nodes .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in lung parenchyma ,  which leads to a cavity ,  and after formation of bronchopulmonary fistula ,  can manifest as an air - fluid level inside the cavity .
a deviation from normal of the level of lactate in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a decrease in the level of lactate in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a deviation from normal in the level of choline - containing compounds in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
an decrease in the level of choline - containing compounds in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
an increase in the level of creatine in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a decrease in the level of creatine in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a deviation from normal in the level of n - acetyl aspartate in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
an increase in the level of n - acetyl aspartate in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a structural anomaly of the olfactory lobe ,  the structure within the brain that receives neural input from the nasal cavity and thereby processes the sense of smell .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the spleen .
multiple abscess lesions in the spleen .
single  ( solitary )  abscess in the spleen .
the practice of eating earth or soil - like substrates such as clay or chalk .
the anterior abdominal wall is sunken and presents a concave rather than a convex contour .
bleeding in the thalamus .
a deviation from normal of the mean corpuscular volume ,  or mean cell volume  ( mcv )  of red blood cells ,  usually taken to be 80 to 100 femtoliters .
a reduction from normal of the mean corpuscular volume ,  or mean cell volume  ( mcv )  of red blood cells  ( usually defined as an mcv below 80 femtoliters )  .
strabismus in which the angle of deviation differs depending upon the direction of gaze or according to which eye is fixing ,  associated with:  ( i )  defective movement of the eye ,   ( ii )  asymmetrical accommodative effort .
strabismus in which the angle of deviation of the squiting eye remains the same in relation to the other eye ,  in all directions of gaze ,  and whichever eye is fixing .
an anomaly of the u wave of the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
direction of the u wave opposite to the t wave  ( i .e . ,  below baseline )  in leads with upright t waves .
increased amplitude of the u wave ,  defined as an amplitude grerater than 1 - 2mm or 25 percent of the height of the t wave .
u wave inversion that is induced by exercise stress testing .
an anomaly of the complex formed by the q ,  r ,  and s waves ,  which occur in rapid succession on the electrocardiogram .
elevation of the voltage  ( height )  of the qrs complex .
abnormal amplitude of the qrs complex of the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
reduced amplitude  ( height )  of the qrs complex of the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  ,  defined as amplitudes of all the qrs complexes in the limb leads are less than 5 mm or amplitudes of all the qrs complexes in the precordial leads less than 10 mm .
the qrs complexes of the electrocardiogram alternate in height .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the parenchyma of the pancreas .
a form of hyperkeratosis characterized by thickening of the cornified layer without retained nuclei .
a skin change elicited by briskly rubbing the skin lesion in urticaria pigmentosa  ( up )  ,  whereby the area begins to itch and becomes raised and surrounded by erythema .
any structural anomaly of the elastic fibers of the skin .
an increased amount of desmosine measure in the skin .
inflammatory cells within the wall and ostia of the hair follicle ,  creating a follicular - based pustule .
passage of many stools containing blood .
passage of many stools containing blood and mucus .
area of skin requiring an increased amount of time to return to its original shape after being stretched .
complete shedding  ( separation )  of the nail from the proximal matrix .
vomiting of material that is of fecal origin .
a structural anomaly of the mucous lining of the large intestine .
diffuse hypertrophy or thickening of the stratum spinosum of the epidermis  ( prickle cell layer of the skin )  .
a retinal exudate in the area surrounding the optic nerve head .
a subretinal scar with a disc - like shape in the region of the macula .
a sudden violent ,  spasmodic ,  audible expiration of breath through the nose and mouth .
unprovoked explosive pathological sneezing .
marked ,  involuntary jerking of the eyelids .
structural abnormality of the hypothalamus related to defective development .
structural abnormality of the thalamus related to defective development .
any structural anomaly of the hippocampus , 
structural abnormality of the hippocampus related to defective development .
structural abnormality of the basal ganglia related to defective development .
a type of skin nodule that has a small depression that resembles a navel  ( i .e . ,  is umbilicated )  .
a capillary malformation is a flat ,  sharply defined vascular stain of the skin .
a congenital skin lesion characterized by irregular hypopigmented macules that coalesce to form plaques and occur particularly on the chest .
a variant of port - wine stain characterized by a pale red or even pink tone ,  in contrast to the darker hue of the port - wine stain .
a congenital vascular malformation that presents as localized or generalized erythematous - telangiectatic lesions with a reticular pattern ;  the lesions are almost always present at birth or develop in the first days of life .
angioma serpiginosum consists of punctate ,  tightly packed telangiectatic lesions .
decrease in the level of pyruvate kinase  ( pk )  within erythrocytes .
yellow / white ,  sharply delineated lesion ,  typically of inflammatory nature ,  involving the macula .
decreased tolerance to sound .
an adverse response  ( dislike )  to sound no matter what volume the sound is ,  characterized by a strong negative reaction to soft sounds that can sometimes be further triggered by seeing the source of the offending sound .
hypergranulosis is an increased thickness of the stratum granulosum .
eosinophilic hyaline ovoid bodies which are often found in the subepidermal papillary regions or sometimes in the epidermis .
an intrauterine state characterized by suboptimal values in the fetal heart rate ,  oxygenation of fetal blood ,  or other parameters indicative of compromise of the fetus .
rete pegs  ( or ridges )  are the epithelial extensions that project into the underlying connective tissue in both skin and mucous membranes .
lightening or darkening of the lips from their usual coloring .
an alteration of the color of the lip to take on a violet color .
a type of epidermal acanthosis characterized by a jagged  ( sawtooth )  appearance of the rete ridges of the epidermis .
areas of white discoloration visible on the surface of the teeth  ( enamel )  in the form of streaks or specks .
a tendency of teeth to fracture as manifested by a history of repeated fracture of the dental enamel without adequate trauma .
white lesions of the oral mucosa are generally caused by a condition that increases the thickness of the epithelium .
a corrugated white lesion of the oral mucosa that usually occurs on the lateral or ventral surfaces of the tongue and may have a shaggy or frayed appearance .
a scaly ,  crusty lesion caused by damage from the ultraviolet radiation of the sun ,  with typical location on sun - exposed areas of the skin .
an abnormally reduced amount of adipose tissue in the abdominal cavity .
a structural anomaly of the mucous lining of the small intestine .
lactase is produced in the small intestine in humans ,  lactase is a member of the beta - galactosidase family of enzymes ,  and hydrolyzes d - lactose to form d - galactose and d - glucose ,  which can be absorbed by the small intestine .
enlargement of the soft tissues of one or more fingers .
a deviation from normal concentration of the hormone estrogen in the blood circulation .
a deviation from normal concentrations of estradiol in the circulation .
an elevation above normal limits of the concentration of estradiol in the circulation .
a deviation from normal concentration of estriol in the circulation .
an elevation above normal limits of estriol concentration in the circulation .
a reduction below normal limits of estriol in the circulation .
a deviation from the normal concentration of circulating estrone .
an elevation above normal limits of the concentration of estrone in the circulation .
a reduction below normal limits of the concentration of estrone in the circulation .
ectopic deposition of calcium salts found in the gingiva .
a symptom or manifestation indicating a systemic or general effect of a disease and that may affect the general well - being or status of an individual .
a sudden sensation of feeling cold .
involuntary contraction or twitching of the muscles .
severe chills with violent shivering .
deterioration of the tissue of the fovea ,  i .e . , the region of sharpest vision within the macula of the retina .
a shiny appearance of the macula ,  which is often called a beaten bronze appearance .
a fluorescein angiographic finding of absence of the normal background fluorescence  ( a dark choroid )  .
partial or complete wasting  ( loss )  of muscularois propria tissue that was once present .
sparse and small myenteric ganglia
hyperplastic submucosal and myenteric plexus containing an increased number of ganglion cells ,  glial cells and nerve fibers .
lack of visual responsiveness or decrease in visual capabilities suggesting a lack of visual responsiveness or decrease in visual capabilities in an infant or young child in which visual behavior fails to meet normal developmental milestones .
short - lived and not permanent .this term applies to a phenotypic abnormality that is temporary and of short duration .
presence of biliary veins that serve as a collateral channel to the systemic circulation
a functional anomaly of the hepatobiliary system
inability to be weaned from intravenous  ( parenteral )  nutrition ,  as judged by the hydration status  ( urine output ,  blood urea nitrogen ,  creatinine ,  urine sodium concentration )  ,  ability to maintain weight ,  stool output ,  and serum electrolyte status .
an increased concentration of sedoheptulose in the urine .
increased amount of autofluorescence in the retina as ascertained by fundus autofluorescence imaging .
decreased amount of autofluorescence in the retina as ascertained by fundus autofluorescence imaging .
a temper tantrum is an emotional outburst usually triggered by a sense of frustration and manifested as whining and crying ,  screaming ,  kicking ,  hitting ,  and breath holding .
temper tantrums that occur more frequently than usual .
temper tantrums whose severity is more severe than usual .
a structural abnormality of the optic chiasm .the optic chiasm ,  located below the hypothalamus ,  is a partial crossing of the optic nerves .
an elevated number of elastic fibers ,  that is of bundles of proteins and glycoproteins in the extracellular matrix in the reticular dermis .
formation of clumps or aggregates that make up small protuberances from elastic fibers within the dermis  ( especially the reticular dermis )  .
an increase of the diameter of elastic fibers in the dermis .
elastic fibers in the dermis exhibit an increased number of breaks associated with disorganization of the structure of the elastic fibers .
abnormal function of the left ventricule during left ventricular relaxation and filling .
abnormality of left ventricular contraction ,  often defined operationally as an ejection fraction of less than 40 percent .
a central nervous system neoplasm with neuronal and ,  less consistently ,  glial differentiation .
a tumor of the central nervous system that has components of both neurocytic and glial areas ,  whereby usually the glial component of the tumour predominates .
thickening of the interlobular septa of the lungs as seen on a high - resolution computed tomography scan with a smooth appearance of the interlobular septa .
thickening of the interlobular septa of the lungs as seen on a high - resolution computed tomography scan with a nodular or beaded appearance of the interlobular septa .
thickening of the interlobular septa of the lungs as seen on a high - resolution computed tomography scan with an irregular appearance of the interlobular septa .
extensive interstitial fibrosis with alveolar disruption and bronchiolectasis .
a fine reticular pattern on high - resolution computeed tomography ,  with the visible lines separated by a few millimeters .
thickening of the peribronchovascular interstitium ,  a connective tissue sheath that surrounds the central bronchi and pulmonary arteries .
increase in thickness of the subpleural interstitium .
a descriptive term that is applied to computer tomography imaging and that refers to a hazy area of increased attenuation in the lung with preserved bronchial and vascular markings .
a hazy area of increased attenuation in centrilobular areas of the lung with preserved bronchial and vascular markings seen on a computer tomography scan .
an abscess - like lesion located within the abdomen .
a confined region of lax skin that hangs below the level of the surrounding skin .
unilateral ptosis with associated upper eyelid contraction and contraction of either the external or the internal pterygoid muscle .
inflammation of retinal blood vessels as manifested by perivascular sheathing or cuffing ,  vascular leakage and / or occlusion .
a bilateral tonic - clonic seizure with generalized onset is a type of bilateral tonic - clonic seizure characterised by generalized onset ;  these seizures rapidly engage networks in both hemispheres at the start of the seizure .
areas of brighter than expected signal on magnetic resonance imaging emanating from the cerebral white matter that surrounds the fourth cerebral ventricle  ( which is located beneath the tentorium of the cerebellum )  .
a posterolateral defect in the diaphragm ,  commonly referred to as a bochdalek hernia ,  which is often accompanied by herniation of the stomach ,  intestines ,  liver ,  and / or spleen into the chest cavity .
an anterior retrosternal or parasternal hernia that can result in the herniation of liver or intestines into the chest cavity .
a congenital diaphragm defect involving the central tendinous  ( e .g . ,  amuscular )  portion of the diaphragm ,  whereby the entire rim of diaphragmatic musculature is present .
an elevation in the total - iron binding capacity ,  which measures how much serum iron is bound if an excess of radioactive iron is added .
a benign tumor made up of mostly myofibroblasts that appears almost exclusively on the digits of the hands and feet ,  rarely involving the thumb or big toe .
a non - malignant sessile or pedunculated polyp in the colon and rectum that displays a cap of inflammatory granulation tissue with fibrinopurulent exudate that covers the polyp .
a deviation from the normal concentration in blood of an apolipoprotein ,  i .e . ,  of a protein that binds lipids to form lipoprotein and is thereby responsible for the transport of lipids in the blood and lymph circulation .
an increased concentration in blood of apolipoprotein a - iv ,  a major component of hdl and chylomicrons that has a role in vldl secretion and catabolism and is required for efficient activation of lipoprotein lipase by apoc - ii .
distended and engorged umbilical veins which are seen radiating from the umbilicus across the abdomen to join systemic veins .
a trigger is defined as an external factor that leads to the manifestation of a sign or symptom in a person with a susceptibility to developing that manifestation .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by breast feeding in an infant .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by exposure to cold surroundings .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by being dehydrated ,  i .e . ,  by a deficit in total body water .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by eating or drinking carbohydrates .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by eating or drinking fructose .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by eating or drinking glucose .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by drinking or otherwise ingesting ethanol .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by abstaining from eating food  ( fasting )  .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by eating or drinking galactose .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by exposure to heat .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by febrile illness .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by eating large quantities of food ,  for instance ,  by a heavy meal .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by eating a diet high in lipids .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by excessively rapid and deep breathing .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by a vaccination .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by menstruation in a female .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by pregnancy in a female .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by a lack of sufficient sleep .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by smoking .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by eating or drinking sodium .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by exposure to sound or noise .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by a physical ,  mental ,  or emotional factor associated with bodily or mental tension .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by a a state of excitement or by being startled .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by a sudden movement .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by vestibular stimulation ,  including head turning ,  cold calorics ,  postural changes ,  or rotating chair .
inflammation of a tendon .
a structural anomaly of a synovial bursa .
inflammation of a synovial bursa .
an inability to move the body at sleep onset or upon awakening from sleep lasting seconds to a few minutes .
an undesirable physical event or experience that occur during entry into sleep ,  during sleep ,  or during arousal from sleep .
a parasomnia that occurs in non - rapid eye movement  ( nrem )  sleep .
ambulation or other complex motor behaviors after getting out of bed in a sleep - like state .
a nocturnal episode characterized by disorientation ,  grogginess ,  and ,  at times ,  substantial agitation upon awakening from slow - wave sleep or following forced awakenings .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the foot .
a localized detachment of the vitreous from the retina due to the accumulation of blood .
an accumulation of blood between the neurosensory retina and the retinal pigment epithelium  ( rpe )  arising from the choroidal or retinal circulation .
a type of retinal hemorrhage that is located within the nerve fiber layer  ( nfl )  of the retina and that exhibits a characteristic flame shape which results from constraints by the structure of the nfl  ( axons of the ganglion cells )  .
accumulation of blood located in the retina's inner nuclear and outer plexiform layers ,  and having a dot - like or blot - like shape .
accumulation of blood located beneath the neurosensory retina in the space between the neurosensory retina and the retinal pigment epithelium .
an accumulation of blood located between the retinal pigment epithelium  ( rpe )  and bruch's membrane .
a hollow mass located in the skin that is surrounded by an epithelium - lined wall and is well demarcated from the adjacent tissue .
nontender ,  round and firm ,  but slightly compressible ,  intradermal or subcutaneous cyst measuring 0 .5 - 5 cm in diameter .
a congenital subcutaneous cyst that arises from entrapment of skin along the lines of embryonic fusion .
a cutaneous cyst that is small  ( one or two millimeters in diameter )  and painless ,  presenting as a follicular papule that usually is skin colored but may have a reddish or brownish tinge .
a clogged cutaneous sebaceous follicle ,  which is a cutaneous gland that secretes sebum  ( usually into a hair follicle )  .
a comedo in which the top of the pore is not stretched open and thus does not expose the clogged portion  ( which would appear black )  ,  hence the name whitehead .
a comedo in which the part of the pore at the surface of the skin is stretched and open ,  exposing the contents of the comedo ,  which appear black .
an anomaly of the tongue characterized by loss  ( atrophy )  of filiform papillae of the tongue ,  leaving areas of erythema  ( redness )  ,  surrounded by a serpiginous ,  white ,  hyperkeratotic border .
an abnormal fear of being in a closed or narrow space with no escape .
an ameliorating factor is defined as an external factor that leads to a sign or symptom that is already present improving or becoming more bearable
applies to a sign or symptom that is improved or made more bearable by pregnancy in a female .
applies to a sign or symptom that is improved or made more bearable by heat  ( including fever )  .
applies to a sign or symptom that is improved or made more bearable by eating or drinking carbohydrates including glucose  ( sugar )  .
a sensation of tightness in the neck when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
a sensation of tightness in the elbow joint when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
a sensation of tightness in the wrist joint when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
a sensation of tightness in a finger joint when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
a sensation of tightness in the hip joint when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
a sensation of tightness in the knee joint when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
a sensation of tightness in the ankle joint when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
a sensation of tightness in a toe joint when attempting to move it ,  especially after a period of inactivity .
degeneration  ( wear and tear )  of the articular cartilage of the neck joints .
deep ,  noisy breathing during sleep accompanied by hoarse or harsh sounds caused by the vibration of respiratory structures  ( especially the soft palate )  resulting in sound due to obstructed air movement during breathing while sleeping .
disruptions in the production of speech sounds ,  with involuntary repetitions of words or parts of words ,  prolongations of speech sounds ,  or complete blockage of speech production for several seconds .
a sudden episode of intense fear in a situation in which there is no danger or apparent cause .
any physiological abnormality of the esophagus .
involuntary contractions of the esophagus that are irregular ,  uncoordinated ,  and painful .
symmetrical ,  blotchy ,  brownish facial pigmentation .
inflammation of the achilles tendon .
an cystic ovarian teratoma composed of dermal and epidermal elements and containing tissue components including hair ,  teeth ,  bone ,  thyroid ,  and others .
applies to an abnormality that is located farther from the median plane or midline of the body or of the referenced structure .
any functional anomaly of the skin adnexa  ( skin appendages )  ,  which are specialized skin structures located within the dermis and focally within the subcutaneous fatty tissue ,  comprising three histologically distinct structures:  ( 1 )  the pilosebaceous unit  ( hair follicle and sebaceous glands )  ;   ( 2 )  the eccrine sweat glands ;  and  ( 3 )  the apocrine glands .
hyperhidrosis that occurs with gustatory stimulation  ( e .g . ,  moisture on face from sweating that occurs after eating )  .
sweating provoked by cold temperature rather than by heat .
a pain characteristic is defined as a subjective category or type of pain .
applied to pain that is described as sharp ,  i .e . ,  sudden and severe .
applied to pain that is dull ,  i .e . ,  not severe but that continues over a long period of time .
applied to pain that is tender ,  i .e . ,  elicited by touching the affected body part .
applied to pain that wakes the affecting individual from sleep .
an aggravating factor is defined as an external factor that leads to a sign or symptom that is already present getting worse or becoming more severe .
applied to a sign or symptom that is aggravated by activity ,  exertion ,  or exercise .
applies to an abnormality that is situated in the central part of the body ,  in the head and trunk as distinguished from the limbs .
enlarged lymph nodes in the neck .
applies to an abnormality that affects the arms ,  trunk ,  head more than the legs .
applies to an abnormality that affects the legs more than the arms ,  trunk ,  head .
applies to an abnormality that affects the distal portions of limbs  ( hand ,  foot )  and head  ( ears ,  nose )  .
applies to an abnormality whose localization corresponds to the lines of blaschko ,  which correspond to the lineage of epithelia cells .
applies to an abnormality whose localization corresponds to the dermatomes ,  i .e . ,  the nerve root distribution .
applies to an abnormality whose distribution and appearance resembles that of the grouped umbilicated vesicles seen in herpes simplex and herpes zoster infections .
applies to an abnormality whose distribution and appearance resembles that of measles ,  i .e . ,  maculopapular lesions that are red and roughly 2 to 10 mm in diameter and may be partially confluent .
applied to an abnormality whose duration is extended over a longer period of time than is expected or usual  ( e .g . ,  prolonged fever lasts longer than one usually sees with an infection )  .
an erythematous  ( red )  ,  flat facial rash that affects the skin in the malar area  ( over the cheekbones )  and extends over the bridge of the nose .
applies to an abnormality that occurs in or is exacerbated during the night .
applies to a sign ,  symptom ,  or other abnormality that occurs in or is exacerbated in the day time .
applied to a sign ,  symptom ,  or other manifestation that occurs multiple times at usually irregular intervals .
applies to a sign ,  symptom ,  or other manifestation that recurs with a fixed time interval ,  i .e . ,  the symptom - free periods are always of the same length .
applies to a sign ,  symptom ,  or other manifestation that is episodic with a fixed time interval of one day  ( 24 hours )  .
acute appearance of disease manifestations in a period of minutes .
acute appearance of disease manifestations in a period of hours .
acute appearance of disease manifestations in a period of days .
a deviation from the normal circular shape of the pupil
an abnormal pupil shape that is elliptical ,  i .e . ,  egg - like .
a closed sac ,  having a distinct membrane and division compared to the nearby tissue located within the anterior chamber .
a form of strabismus with both eyes turned inward to a relatively mild degree ,  usually defined as less than 10 prism diopters .
a form of strabismus with one or both eyes deviated outward to a milder degree than with exotropia .
a benign ,  flat or slightly elevated melanocytic lesions of the posterior uveawith clearly defined margins .
applies to a sign or symptom that is worsened ,  aggravated ,  or exacerbated by head trauma .
a deformity of the elbow in which there is a deviation of the forearm toward the midline of the body .
a malignant neoplasm originating from the surface ovarian epithelium .
formation of new blood vessels on the iris .
leakage of fluorescein dye observed upon retinal fluorescein angiography .
an anomalous build up of copper  ( cu )  in the liver .
blockage of venous return  ( flow of blood from the periphery back towards the right atrium )  in a vein .
an anomaly of arterial function .
blockage of blood flow through an artery .
decreased density / number and / or decreased diameter of medial eyebrow hairs .
blockage of the retinal artery ,  generally associated with interruption of blood flow and oxygen delivery to the retina .
reduced dimension of the solid part of the kidney  ( parenchyma ,  the renal cortex and medulla )  as measured from the collecting system  ( renal calyces and pelvis )  to the border of the kidney .
significant maternal hemorrhage / bleed in the second half of pregnancy and prior to the birth of the baby .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against glutamic acid decarboxylase .
a limitation of the ability to direct one's gaze below the horizontal meridian .
a limitation of the ability to direct one's gaze above the horizontal meridian .
an anomaly of the outer shell  ( cortex )  of a foot bone .
a reduction in the thickness of the outer shell  ( cortex )  of foot bones .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by a strong spontaneously arising mental state ,  reaction or feeling  ( emotion )  .
a failure to achieve the ability to stand up at an appropriate developmental stage .
a failure to achieve the ability to sit at an appropriate developmental stage .
a reddish appearance over the white part  ( sclera )  of the eye ranging from a few enlarged blood vessels appearing as wiggly lines over the sclera to a bright red color completely covering to sclera .
a ring of redness at the limbus of the eye ,  the border between the cornea and the sclera .
prominence of blood vessels of the superficial episcleral tissues .
prominence of blood vessels of the deep episcleral tissues .
an inflammatory cellular deposit deposited on the corneal endothelium and visible as spots on the cornea .
blockage of the main artery in the retina .
presence of lupus anticoagulant  ( la )  autoantibodies .
damage to and obliteration of intrahepatic bile ducts  ( bile ducts that transport bile between the canals of hering and the interlobar bile ducts )  .
a deviation from the normal concentration of beta - 2 - microglobulin in the blood .
elevated concentration of beta - 2 - microglobulin in the blood .
reduced concentration of beta - 2 - microglobulin in the blood .
an anomaly of the margin of the cornea overlapped by the sclera .
swelling of the margin of the cornea overlapped by the sclera .
conjunctival papillae with a diameter greater than 1 millimeter .
a history of repeated fungal infections located between the fingers or toes ,  usually manifested by scaling ,  maceration ,  and itching .
being related to a mutation that gamete that participates in fertilization .
a type of antinuclear antibody  ( ana )  positivity revealed by indirect immunofluorescence  ( ifl )  .
an anomaly of cellular morphology or physiology .
acquired focal dilatations of branches of the retinal artery ,  usually second - order retinal arterioles ,  that range in size from 100 to 200 micrometers in diameter .
a type of myoclonus in which the myoclonias shift from body region to another in a random and asynchronous fashion .
presence of iris pigment epithelium on the anterior surface of the iris .
an abnormal polygonal shape of the calices of the kidney  ( which normally have a rounded or cup - shaped appearance )  .
increased number of calices of the kidney .
a structural anomaly of the pyramid of the adult kidney ,  cone - shaped structures with a broad base adjacent to the renal cortex and the narrow apex that is termed papilla .
undergrowth of the pyramid of the adult kidney ,  cone - shaped structures with a broad base adjacent to the renal cortex and the narrow apex that is termed papilla .
hypercellularity due to increased number of cells within glomerular capillary lumina ,  causing narrowing of the lumina .
hypercellularity  ( increased number of cells )  in the renal glomerulus but external to the glomerular capillaries ,  i .e . ,  in the bowman space or more than one layer of parietal or visceral epithelial cells .
a benign hair follicle tumor whose tumor cells form rudimentary hair follicles but not actual hair shafts .
a structural anomaly of the growth plates  ( epiphyseal plates )  ,  areas of cartilage located near the ends of long bones that are located between the metaphysis  ( widened part of the shaft of the bone )  and the epiphysis  ( end of the bone )  and in which growth occurs in the developing bone .
increased thickness  ( dimension along the axis of the bone )  of the growth plate .
abnormal bone tissue formation  ( ossification )  affecting the sacrum .
formation of the sacrum bone tissue occurs later than age - adjusted norms .
particularly loud snoring ,  snoring at high volume .
interictal refers to a period of time between epileptic seizures .
the presence of two distinct odontoid processes .
os odontoideum is classified into two anatomic types  ( orthotopic and dystopic )  .
an increased concentration of glutamine in the urine .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by exertion or physical exercise .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against thyroid peroxidase .
increased level of circulating 4 - androstenedione .
circulating antipituitary antibodies  ( apa )  are markers of autoimmune hypophysitis ,  which may cause deficient pituitary function .
reduced fluid intake  ( drinking )  in a clinical situation where the plasma molarity or sodium concentration normally would induce greater fluid intake .
an area of fat accumulation at the back of the neck in the form of a hump .
areas of subcutanous fat tissue that are resistant to  ( do not respond as expected to )  diet ,  life - style alteration ,  or bariatric surgery .
areas of subcutanous fat tissue below the waist that are resistant to  ( do not respond as expected to )  diet ,  life - style alteration ,  or bariatric surgery .
depression of profile in both temporal regions .
a type of resting tremor characterized by simultaneous rubbing movements of thumb and index fingers against each other .
a nodular lesion that develops in the thyroid gland .
high - resolution computed tomography  ( hrct )  can distinguish findings that characterize characterise interstitial lung diseases in a way not possible with other modalities .
on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography ,  reticular pattern is characterised by innumerable interlacing shadows suggesting a mesh .
the so - called crazy paving pattern is characterised on hrct by the presence of thickened interlobular septae and intralobular lines superimposed on a background of ground - glass opacity ,  resembling irregularly shaped paving stones .
a nodular pattern is characterised on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography by the presence of numerous rounded opacities that range from 2 mm to 1 cm in diameter ,  with micronodules defined as smaller than 3 mm in diameter .
co - occurrence of reticular and micronodular patterns on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography .
on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography ,  the cystic pattern is composed by well - defined ,  round and circumscribed air - containing parenchymal spaces with a well - defined wall and interface with normal lung .
co - occurrence of the cystic pattern and the ground - glass pattern on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography , 
areas of low density corresponding to parenchymal destruction and reduced perfusion ,  and attenuation of the pulmonary vasculature ,  as visualized on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography .
a patchwork of intermingled areas of increased and decreased attenuation visualized on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography .
a nodular pattern on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography that has a perilymphatic distribution .
a nodular pattern on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography that displays a tree - in - bud pattern ,  representing centrilobular branching structures that resemble a budding tree .
a nodular pattern on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography that has an apparently random pattern .
an abnormality in which the eyes are held permanently wide open .
square wave jerks are saccadic eye movements which ,  when recorded with open eyes are considered to be a pathological sign ,  caused by fixation instability ,  and pointing to a central neurological lesion .
a habitual positioning of the body with the head and upper back bent forward .
any anomaly in the process of ocular fixation ,  which is the maintaining of the visual gaze on a single location .
a deficit in the ability to fixate eye movements in order to stabilize images on the retina
a state characterized by a feeling of weakness and loss of strength leading to a generalized weakness of the body .
an abnormal connection  ( fistula )  between the rectum and the urethra .
any anomaly of the structure of the spleen .
any anomaly of the function of the spleen .
joining of the spleen and a gonad during embryological development .
a type of urethral stricture affecting the fossa navicularis ,  which is the spongy part of the male urethra located at the glans penis .
a type of urethral stricture affecting the pendulous urethra ,  which is straight and fixed to the corpora cavernosa .
a type of urethral stricture affecting the bulbar urethra ,  which is the part of the urethra that traverses the root of the penis .
a narrowing of the vagina owing to scar formation .
urethra more open or expanded than normal .
patchy or diffuse ischemic destruction of all the elements of renal cortex resulting from significantly diminished renal arterial perfusion .
an air - filled cystic space within a lung .
a type of of pulmonary hemorrhage that originates from the pulmonary microcirculation ,  including the alveolar capillaries ,  arterioles ,  and venules .
the presence of free air in the mediastinum .
a closed sac - like structure originating from the pleura that contains a liquid ,  gaseous ,  or semisolid substance .
any anomaly of the structure of the larynx .
any anomaly of the function of the larynx .
a spasm  ( involuntary contraction )  of the vocal cords that can make it difficult to speak or breathe .
any anomaly of the morphology of the bronchi .
any anomaly of the function of the bronchi .
a spasm  ( sudden ,  involuntary constriction )  of the bronchioles .
any anomaly of the vocalizing of an infant's crying ,  i .e . , the typically loud voice production that is accompanied by tears and agitation .
a type of crying in an abnormally high - pitched voice .
a type of cry that is abnormal because it is consists of unusually shortened and detached vocalizations .
a benign epithelial skin tumor manifesting as a slightly elevated circular plaque or nodule with a red ,  pink or brown color and a diameter up to 22 mm .
reduced level of the enzyme lecithin cholesterol acyl transferase .
a diminished activity of the classical complement pathway as measured by the assay for 50% haemolytic complement  ( ch50 )  activity of serum .
an elevated level of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase in serum .
increased concentration of 11 - deoxycortisol in the circulation .
increased size of the head of sperm .
inflammation  ( due to infection or irritation )  of the pharynx .
warm reactive autoantibodies are rbc - directed immune responses that are maximally reactive at 37 degrees c .
ectopic deposition of calcium salts in the achilles tendon .
an abnormality of the function of the cardiac atria .
a decrease in the volume  ( size )  of the amygdyla .
any structural anomaly of the papillary muscles of the left ventricle .
a congenital malformation in which one or both of the papillary muscles  ( posteromedial or anterolateral )  insert directly  ( that is ,  without interpositioned chordae tendineae )  into the anterior mitral leaflet .
abnormal location of the insertion of a papillary muscle into the left ventricular wall .
abnormally anterior location of the papillary muscles of the left ventricle .
abnormal location of the insertion of the anterolateral papillary muscle near to the apex of the left ventricle .
testicular adrenal rest tumor  ( tart )  is a abenign tumor of the testis .
a deep skin ulcer with a well defined border ,  which is usually violet or blue .
occurence of adrenarche at a later than normal age .
any deviation from the normal range of concentration of a metabolite in the cerebrospinal fluid .
csf 5 - hiaa  ( 5 - hydroxyindolacetic acid )  level is below the lower limit of normal .
any deviation from the normal range of a protein concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid .
csf total protein level is below the lower limit of normal .
an increase above normal limits of the ratio of the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  albumin concentration to serum albumin concentration .
an elevated level of myoinositol in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
any anomaly of cell structure .
an abnormality of the processes that maintain the redox environment of a cell or compartment within a cell ,  that is ,  the balance between reduction and oxidation chemical reactions .
an accumulation of free radical groups in the body inadequately neutralized by antioxidants ,  which creates a potentially unstable and damaging cellular environment linked to tissue damage .
a deviation from the normal concentration of beta globulin .
increased level of beta 2 - microglobulins in the urine .
an abnormal loss of anagen  ( growth phase )  hairs .
a type of hair loss characterized by an abnormal increase in dormant ,  telogen stage hair follicles .
a hamartomatous proliferation containing malformed hair follicles in various stages of development .
a history of repeated fungal infections located on the sole of the foot ,  usually manifested by scaling ,  maceration ,  and itching .
a papule  ( circumscribed ,  solid elevation of skin with no visible fluid ,  varying in size from a pinhead to less than 10mm in diameter at the widest point )  that exhibits increased pigmentation  ( is darker )  compared to the surrounding skin .
a plaque  ( a solid ,  raised ,  plateau - like  ( flat - topped )  lesion greater than 1 cm in diameter )  with a red or reddish color often associated with inflammation or irritation .
a macule  ( flat ,  distinct ,  discolored area of skin less than 1 cm wide that does not involve any change in the thickness or texture of the skin )  with a red or reddish color often associated with inflammation or irritation .
multiple foci of adipocytes within the testicular interstitium ,  usually presenting as multiple bilateral ill - defined hyperechoic intratesticular lesions of different sizes but generally with maximum diameter of 4 mm .
calcified deposits in soft tissue structures outside a joint .
atrial standstill or silent atrium is a rare condition presenting with the absence of electrical and mechanical activity in the atria .
neglecting one's own needs and well - being .
a type of spinal dysraphism presenting as a subcutaneous fatty mass ,  that is ,  a spinal defect associated with lipomatous tissue ,  and covered by skin .
absence of one half of the vertebral body in the cervical spine .
an abnormal result of the perchlorate discharge test .
a deviation from the normal concentration of thyroglobulin ,  a protein produced in the thyroid gland that acts as a precursor to thyrroid hormones .
an abnormal elevation of the concentration of thyroglobulin ,  a protein produced in the thyroid gland that acts as a precursor to thyrroid hormones .
vaginal adenosis is defined by the presence of metaplastic cervical or endometrial epithelium within the vaginal wall ,  thought to be derived from persistent mllerian  ( synonymous with paramesonephric )  epithelium islets in postembryonic life .
the outer labia are sealed together .
any structural anomaly of the bladder .
a urodynamic anomaly characterized by bladder outlet obstruction from detrusor muscle contraction with concomitant involuntary urethral sphincter activation .
a congenital anomaly characterized by the presence of two bladders .
a congenital variant of a coronary artery in which a portion of an epicardial coronary artery  ( most frequently the middle segment of the left anterior descending artery )  takes an intramuscular course .
narrowing of a vein due to intimal hyperplasia and fibrosis .
a small pupil  ( typically diameter less than 2 mm )  that dilates poorly or not at all in response to topically administered mydriatic drugs .
redness of the skin of the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin .
regular circumferential periaortic fibrosis involving the whole aorta and leading to a coated aorta appearance on computed tomography scans
significant luminal narrowing of a long segment of the descending aorta .
any anomaly of the function of a coronary artery .
a brief and sudden narrowing of a coronary artery .
absence of ceruloplasmin in the blood .
obesity with a body mass index of 30 to 34 .9 kg per square meter .
obesity with a body mass index of 35 to 39 .9 kg per square meter .
obesity with a body mass index of 40 kg per square meter or higher .
increased body weight with a body mass index of 25 - 29 .9 kg per square meter .
origin of the right coronary artery  ( rca )  from the left sinus of valsalva or of the left main  ( lm )  or left anterior descending  ( lad )  coronary artery from the right sinus of valsalva .
the circumflex coronary artery originates from the right aortic sinus of valsalva .
origin of the right coronary artery  ( rca )  from the left sinus of valsalva or of the left main  ( lm )  or left anterior descending  ( lad )  coronary artery from the right sinus of valsalva ,  with the additional feature that the artery passes between the two great arteries .
a papule with yellow color .
violaceous papules overlying the dorsal and lateral aspects of the metacarpophalangeal and proximal interphalangeal joints .
flesh - colored or yellowish papules ,  2 mm or larger ,  that are responses to internal mechanical pressure and weakness in the connective tissue in the dermis ,  appear commonly over the medial aspect of the heel ,  but in some cases on the wrists .
a tan ,  regularly bordered patch with darker macules within the lesion .
a solitary yellow - orange slightly raised plaque typically on scalp or face .
a papule with the same color as the surrounding skin .
breakage of the sclera .
an abnormality of the optic nerve in which the optic nerve is large and funneled and displays a conical excavation of the optic disc .
later than normal development of the breasts .
a congenital malformation with abnormal connection between one of the coronary arteries and the pulmonary artery .
underdevelopment of the hippocampus .
an abnormality of gaze that can be observed following an acute supranuclear cerebral lesion  ( e .g . ,  stroke )  that is characterized by an acute inability to direct gaze contralateral to the side of the lesion and is accompanied by a tendency for tonic deviation of the eyes toward the side of the lesion .
multiple biliary hamartomas are a rare clinicopathologic entity ,  consisting of small  ( less than 1 .5cm )  ,  usually multiple and nodular cystic lesions in the liver .
deposition of calcium in the skin .
the percentage of fat as a part of total body weight above the norm ,  usually defined as 32% for females and 25% for males .
abnormal increased in length of the chordae tendinae of the mitral valve .
a structural anomaly of the chordae tendinae of the mitral valve ,  whose main function is to transmit the contraction and relaxation of the papillary muscles during the cardiac cycle ,  thus ensuring the closing of the leaflets of the mitral valve .
loss of the outer layer of the epidermis in large ,  scale - like flakes localized to the palm of the hand and the sole of the foot .
loss of the outer layer of the epidermis in large ,  scale - like flakes localized to one or more fingertips .
a skin lesions that resembles the lesions observed in psoriasis ,  viz . ,  an erythematous plaque covered by fine silvery scales .
a skin lesion with a snake -  or serpent - like distribution .
a lesion of the skin with a ring - like distribution .
a nodule of the skin that exhibits an increased amount of pigmentation .
the presence of multiple xanthomas  ( xanthomata )  in the skin distributed in the creases of the palm of the hand .
the harlequin phenomenon consists of a sudden change in skin colour ,  resulting in two different body colours ,  one on each half of the body .
with the pathergy test ,  a small ,  sterile needle is inserted into the skin of the forearm .
a congenital lesion of the sclera characterized by unilateral patchy but extensive slate - gray or bluish discoloration of the sclera  .
erythematous ,  poikilodermatous macules distributed in a shawl pattern over the shoulders ,  arms and upper back .
erythematous ,  poikilodermatous macules distributed in a v - shaped distribution over the anterior neck and chest .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin on sole of the foot .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid beneath the skin on the palm of the hand .
any abnormality in the proportion t cells subsets relative to the total number of t cells .
a deviation from the normal range of the average amount of hemoglobin per red blood cell  ( 27 to 31 picograms / cell )  .
a reduction from the normal range of the average amount of hemoglobin per red blood cell  ( 27 to 31 picograms / cell )  .
an elevation over the normal range of the average amount of hemoglobin per red blood cell  ( 27 to 31 picograms / cell )  .
a uniocular condition in which there is fixation of an object by a point other than the fovea .
an increase above the normal concentration of ribitol in the blood .
abnormal decussation of the visual pathways ,  typically identified using visual evoked potentials  ( vep )   ( asymmetrical distribution of the vep over the posterior scalp )  .
multiple red / purple spots on the skin that surrounds the eyes that do not blanch  ( whiten )  upon pressure .
subcutaneous bleeding with a diameter greater than 1 cm  ( ecchymosis )  .
a type of skin nodule  ( a lesions that is greater than either 10mm in both width and depth ,  and most frequently centered in the dermis or subcutaneous fat )  with a yellowish coloration  ( that reflects a high lipid content of the lesion )  .
telangiectasia  ( small dilated blood vessels )  located near to the fingernails or toenails .
lamellar cataracts with associated linear lens opacities radially extending towards the periphery of the lens .
a type of cataract characterised by club - shaped and dot opacities distributed radially in the deep cortex .
tiny deposits corresponding to cells floating in the anterior chamber of the eye .
anterior chamber cells with 6 - 15 cells in a 1 mm by 1 mm slit beam field ,  employing adequate light intensity and magnification on a slit lamp .
anterior chamber cells with 1 - 5 cells in a 1 mm by 1 mm slit beam field ,  employing adequate light intensity and magnification on a slit lamp .
anterior chamber cells with less than one cell in a 1 mm by 1 mm slit beam field ,  employing adequate light intensity and magnification on a slit lamp .
anterior chamber cells with 16 - 25 cells in a 1 mm by 1 mm slit beam field ,  employing adequate light intensity and magnification on a slit lamp .
anterior chamber cells with 26 - 50 cells in a 1 mm by 1 mm slit beam field ,  employing adequate light intensity and magnification on a slit lamp .
anterior chamber cells with more than 50 cells in a 1 mm by 1 mm slit beam field ,  employing adequate light intensity and magnification on a slit lamp .
an anomaly of the retina with serous detachment of the neurosensory retina secondary to one or more focal lesions of the retinal pigment epithelium  ( rpe )  ,  and associated with blurred vision ,  usually in one eye only and perceived typically by the patient as a dark spot in the centre of the visual field with associated micropsia and metamorphopsia .
the presence of aneurysmal polypoidal lesions in the choroidal vasculature .
increased tendency of choiroidal blood vessels to allow fluids to leak characterized by multifocal choroidal hyperfluorescence on indocyanine green angiography  ( icga )  .
a type of cataract that shows a spectacular display of multiple colours that glitters with the change of incident light like an illuminated christmas tree .
punctal stenosis is a condition in which the external opening of the lacrimal canaliculus is narrowed or occluded .
a mild form of myopia with up to  - 3 .00 diopters .
any structural anomaly of the principal vein draining blood from the upper portion of the body and delivering it to the right ventricle of the heart .
any structural anomaly of the principal vein draining blood from the lower portion of the body .
aortic valve prolapse can be diagnosed when either or both of the right or non - coronary aortic valve cusps  ( seen in the cross sectional echocardiographic long axis view )  show backward bowing towards the left ventricle beyond a line joining the points of attachment of the aortic valve leaflets to the annulus .
any structural abnormality of the left atrium .
any structural abnormality of the right atrium .
bleeding occurring within the fovea .
bleeding between the neurosensory retina and the retinal pigment epithelium  ( rpe )  arising from the choroidal or retinal circulation .
golden ,  scintillating ,  particulate reflection noted on fundus examination  ( typically in the macula and sparing the fovea )  .
a form of manifest strabismus  ( heterotropia )  in which one eye is deviated downwards when both eyes are open .
tendency for the visual axis of one eye to be higher than that of the other .
a type of strabismus characterized by permanent upward deviation of the visual axis of one eye .
a type of strabismus in which the visual axis of one eye is higher than that of the other .
a type of strabismus in which the visual axis of one eye is lower than that of the other .
cyclodeviation is defined as the rotation of an eyeball along the anteroposterior axis and cyclotropia as a misalignment of cyclodeviation between the two eyes .
a functional anomaly of the muscles of the eye .
a functional anomaly of the superior oblique muscle ,  a fusiform muscle that originates in the upper ,  medial side of the orbit .
decreased strength of the superior oblique muscle .
mechanical limitation of the range of movement of the superior oblique muscle .
an ocular motility abnormality characterized by an overacting superior oblique muscle resulting to vertical incomitance of the eyes in lateral gaze .
reduced ocular movement of the superior oblique muscle which improves on testing ductions ,  typically associated with neurogenic palsy .
a functional anomaly of the inferior oblique muscle ,  an extraocular muscle that has its origin on the maxillary bone just posterior to the inferior medial orbital rim and lateral to the nasolacrimal canal and that is innervated by the inferior branch of the oculomotor nerve .
mechanical limitation of the range of movement of the inferior oblique muscle .
decreased strength of the inferior oblique muscle .
a common ocular motility disorder characterized by vertical incomitance of the eyes in lateral gaze .
a functional anomaly of the inferior rectus muscle ,  which is innervated by the inferior division of oculomotor nerve and functions in the depression ,  adduction ,  and lateral rotation  ( extortion )  of the eye .
decreased strength of the inferior rectus muscle .
mechanical limitation of the range of movement of the inferior rectus muscle .
a functional anomaly of the superior rectus muscle ,  an extraocular muscle that is innervated by the superior division of the oculomotor nerve ,  and whose primary function is the elevation of the globe .
a schwannoma  ( benign ,  usually encapsulated slow growing tumor composed of schwann cells )  located in the orbit .
delayed descent of the upper eyelid on downgaze .
a functional anomaly of the medial rectus muscle ,  an extraocular muscle that is innervated by the inferior division of the oculomotor nerve and whose sole action is the adduction of the eyeball .
an inward turning  ( inversion )  of the margin of the upper eyelid .
an outward turning  ( eversion )  or rotation of the eyelid margin  ( i .e . ,  ectropion )  caused by shortening or contraction of the anterior or middle lamellae related to scarring .
a type of blepharitis that affects the eyelid skin ,  base of the eyelashes ,  and the eyelash follicles .
a type of blepharitis that affects the meibomian glands and meobomian gland orifices .
a type of epicanthus in which more extensive epicanthal folds with their origins in the eyebrow cover ,  pass in front of and lateral to the medial canthus  ( middle corner of the eye )  .
a type of refractive error related abnormal curvatures on the anterior or posterior surface of the cornea .
seizures presenting with an emotion or the appearance of having an emotion as an early prominent feature ,  such as fear ,  spontaneous joy or euphoria ,  laughing  ( gelastic )  ,  or crying ,   ( dacrystic )  .
an abscess not caused by infection with pyogenic bacteria .
an abnormal number of plasma cells in the blood circulation .
an abnormally low number of plasma cells in the blood circulation .
an abnormally high number of plasma cells in the blood circulation .
an abnormal proportion of central memory cd4 +  t cells .
an abnormal proportion of effector memory cd4 +  t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormally decreased proportion of effector memory cd4 +  t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormally increased proportion of effector memory cd4 +  t cells .
an abnormally high concentration of oleic acid  ( oleate )  in the blood circulation .
an abnormally high concentration of octadecanoate in the blood circulation .
an abnormally high concentration of myristoleate in the blood circulation .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against myelin - associated glycoprotein  ( mag )  .
increased amount of argininosuccinate in the urine .
increased amount of alpha - aminobutyric acid in the urine .
a structural abnormality of the ureter .
a functional abnormality of the ureter .
a growth protruding from the mucous membrane of the ureter .
inflammation of the inner lining of the uterus  ( endometrium )  .
narrowing of an artery due to constriction of the blood vessels .
an increased level of n - butyrylglycine in the urine .
an abnormally elevated amount of zinc in the urine ,  typically as assessed by a 24 hour urine collection .
an abnormal concentration or amount of a mineral in the urine .
an abnormally increased concentration of glycolate in the blood circulation .
a cerebrospinal fluid - filled nerve root cyst most often localized in the sacral spine .
abnormality observed upon electromyography when nerve studied is electrically stimulated six to ten times at 2 or 3 hertz .
a condition in which the eyelids do not close to cover the eye completely .
the inability to close the eyelids during sleep .
a type of lagophthalmos that occurs in association with facial nerve palsy .
a type of lagophthalmos that occurs following trauma or surgery .
an acute phenomenon characterized by hypotension and anasarca due to the loss of plasma volume into peripheral tissues ,  with evidence of decreased plasma volume  ( hemoconcentration )  and protein loss from the intravascular space  ( hypoalbuminemia )  during acute episodes .
abnormality in single fiber emg recording ,  a technique that allows identification of action potentials  ( aps )  from individual muscle fibers .
these are spontaneous firing action potentials stimulated by needle movement of an injured muscle fiber .
congenital absence of the cervix .
a cervix that shows a painless dilation and shortening during the second trimester of pregnancy with resultant recurrent pregnancy loss or delivery is considered incompetent
hydrometrocolpos is an accumulation of uterine and vaginal secretions as well as menstrual blood in the uterus and vagina .
a congenital disorder where the hymen  ( a membrane that surrounds or partially covers the external vaginal opening )  does not have an opening and completely obstructs the vagina .
a problem occurring during any phase of the female sexual response cycle that prevents the individual from experiencing satisfaction from the sexual activity
the persistent of recurrent difficulty ,  delay in ,  or absence of attaining orgasm following sufficient sexual stimulation and arousal .
recurrent or persistent genital pain associated with sexual intercourse .
recurrent or persistent involuntary spasms of the musculature of the outer third of the vagina that interferes with vaginal penetration ,  and which causes personal distress .
dminished sexual desire in female .
elevated sexual desire in female
small protrusion within the pinna .
cleft between the helix and the lobe .
small cartilaginous prominence on the posterior concha .
variably shaped ,  cartilage - containing tissue anterior to the external auditory meatus .
small indentation in the lower part of the ascending helix ,  concha ,  or in the crus helix .
flattening instead of curving or rounded superior helix ,  allowing the superior helix to run more horizontally than usual .
a morphological anomaly of the nasal cartilage .
lack of a palpable nasal cartilage .
divergence of digits along the a / p axis  ( in the plane of the palm )  .
the absence of all phalanges of a digit and the associated metacarpal  / metatarsal .
significant reduction in both length and girth of the toe compared to the contralateral toe ,  or alternatively ,  compared to a typical toe size for an age - matched individual .
an incomplete absence of the foot ,  with no bony elements distal to the tarsals ,  but with preservation of some or all of the tarsals .
significant reduction in both length and girth of the finger compared to the contralateral finger ,  or alternatively ,  compared to a typical finger size for an age - matched individual .
presence of abnormal additional layers of the basement membrane of the glomerulus .
presence of struvite  ( magnesium ammonium phosphate )  containing calculi  ( kidney stones )  .
inability of the kidneys to produce either concentrated or dilute urine .
incomplete duplication of the ureter .
a solitary ,  benign ,  intramedullary cartilage tumor that is often found in the short tubular bones of the hands and feet ,  distal femur ,  and proximal humerus .
a congenital anomaly characterized by a joining  ( fusion )  of two or more thoracic vertebral bodies with one another .
a congenital anomaly characterized by a joining  ( fusion )  of two or more lumbar vertebral bodies with one another .
a schmorl's node is the herniation of nucleus pulposus through the cartilaginous and bony end plate into the body of the adjacent vertebra .
failure to complete ossification  ( maturation and calcification )  of the pubic bone .
a partial dislocation of the hip joint ,  whereby the head of the femur is partially displaced from the socket .
a bent  ( flexed )  finger or toe joint that cannot be straightened actively or passively .
elongated curved  ( s - shaped )  fibulae .
a reduction in the degree of glycosylation of alpha - dystroglycan in muscle tissue .
a morphological anomaly of the lateral ventricle .
colpocephaly is an anatomic finding in the brain manifested by occipital horns that are disproportionately enlarged in comparison with other parts of the lateral ventricles .
a collection of pus ,  immune cells ,  and other material in the brain .
an abnormal phenomenon characterized by a classic tetrad of excessive daytime sleepiness with irresistible sleep attacks ,  cataplexy  ( sudden bilateral loss of muscle tone )  ,  hypnagogic hallucination ,  and sleep paralysis .
an abnormal gait pattern characterized by the failure of the heel to contact the floor at the onset of stance during gait .
the presence in the inguinal region  ( groin )  of an increased number of freckles ,  small circular spots on the skin that are darker than the surrounding skin because of deposits of melanin .
an induration  ( hardening )  of the skin
presence of excess fibrous connective tissue surrounding hair follicules .
when viewed on end  ( with the tip of the toe pointing toward the examiner's eye )  the curve of the toenail forms a tighter curve of convexity .
hair that is disorderly ,  stands out from the scalp ,  and cannot be combed flat .
the presence of an antibody in the blood circulation that is directed against the organism's own cells or tissues .
an irreversible distortion of the morphology of an erythrocyte such that the cells are elongated and curved ,  resembling the blade of a sickle  ( the hand - held agricultural tool traditionally used to harvest grains )  .
an abnormal reduction in mitochondrial dna content of cells .
a neoplasm derived from nervous tissue  ( not necessarily a neoplasm located in the nervous system )  .
a neoplasm arising in the neuroectoderm ,  the portion of the ectoderm of the early embryo that gives rise to the central and peripheral nervous systems ,  including some glial cells .
a benign pituitary - region neoplasm that originates from rathke's pouch .
a neoplasm composed of neural epithelium ,  not necessarily a neoplasm located in the neural epithelium or neuroepithelium .
a benign brain tumor composed of neural elements which most often arise from the septum pellucidum and the walls of the lateral ventricles .
a tumor that originates in cells from the primitive neural crest .
a highly malignant embryonal tumor of infancy and young childhood characterized by neuroectodermal elements organized in distinctive multilayered rosettes .
a primitive neuroectodermal neoplasm that occurs extracranially in soft tissue and bone .
a malignant olfactory neuroblastoma arising from the olfactory epithelium of the superior nasal cavity and cribriform plate .
a form of extranodal ,  high - grade non - hodgkin b - cell neoplasm ,  usually large cell or immunoblastic type that originates in the brain ,  leptomeninges ,  spinal cord ,  or eyes and typically remains confined to the cns .
a primitive neuroectodermal neoplasm that occurs in the central nervous system .
a primitive neuroectodermal tumor that originates from the cells of the embryonic medullary canal .
a tumor that originates in the paranasal sinus .
a usually benign neoplasm originating in the chemoreceptor tissue of the carotid body ,  glomus jugulare ,  glomus tympanicum ,  aortic bodies ,  or the female genital tract .
presence of abnormal cells inside a milk duct ,  that is ,  non - invasive breast cancer .
a tumor originating in a bronchus .
a tumor of the uterine cervix .
a form of undifferentiated malignant lymphoma commonly manifested as a large osteolytic lesion in the jaw or as an abdominal mass .
multiple pointlike areas of high t2 signal observed upon magnetic resonance imaging of the periventricular cerebral white matter .
abnormal consumption of fluids with excessive or insufficient consumption of fluid or any other abnormal pattern of fluid consumption .
an excessive desire to eat salt  ( sodium chloride )  or salty foods .
an angulation of a digit at an interphalangeal joint in the plane of the palm  ( finger )  or sole  ( toe )  .
abnormal concentration of lactate in the cerebrospinal fluid .
decreased concentration of lactate in the cerebrospinal fluid .
an anomalous concentration of testosterone in the blood .
an elevated circulating testosterone level in the blood .
an anomalous amount of protein present in or on the surface of muscle fibers .
an anomalous amount of merosin in muscle fibers .
lack of merosin protein in the muscle biopsy .
a reduced amount of merosin in muscle fibers .
a deviation from normal of the amount of laminin beta 1 in muscle fiber tissue .
a reduced amount of laminin beta 1 in muscle fiber tissue .
a decreased amount of collagen vi in muscle tissue .
a deviation from normal in the amount of dystrophin in muscle fiber tissue .
lack of dystrophin in muscle tissue .
a decreased amount of dystrophin in muscle fiber tissue .
immunohistochemistry reveals reduced alpha dystroglycan protein in the muscle biopsy .
deviation from normal in the amount of alpha sarcoglycan in muscle .
lack of alpha sarcoglycan in muscle .
a decreased amount of alpha sarcoglycan in muscle .
deviation from normal in the amount of beta sarcoglycan in muscle .
deviation from normal in the amount of gamma sarcoglycan in muscle .
deviation from normal in the amount of delta sarcoglycan in muscle .
immunohistochemistry shows complete lack of beta sarcoglycan protein in the muscle biopsy .
immunohistochemistry reveals reduced beta sarcoglycan protein in the muscle biopsy .
immunohistochemistry reveals reduced gamma sarcoglycan protein in the muscle biopsy .
immunohistochemistry shows complete lack of gamma sarcoglycan protein in the muscle biopsy .
immunohistochemistry shows complete lack of delta sarcoglycan protein in the muscle biopsy .
abnormally reduced amount of delta sarcoglycan in muscle .
a deviation from normal of muscle alpha - dystroglcan expression .
a deviation from normal in the expression of dysferlin in muscle tissue .
immunohistochemistry shows complete lack of dysferlin protein in the muscle biopsy .
immunohistochemistry reveals reduced dysferlin protein in the muscle biopsy .
a deviation from normal of the amount of the inner nuclear membrane protein emerin in muscle tissue .
immunohistochemistry shows complete lack of emerin protein in the muscle biopsy .
immunohistochemistry reveals reduced emerin protein in the muscle biopsy .
a deviation from normal in the amount of calpain - 3 in muscle tissue .
western blot shows complete lack of calpain - 3 protein in the muscle biopsy tissue .
western blot reveals reduced calpain - 3 protein in the muscle biopsy tissue .
immunohistochemistry reveals reduced perlecan protein in the muscle biopsy .
a deviation from the normal amount of lamin a / c in muscle tissue .
a decreased amount of lamin a / c in muscle tissue .
a congenital anomaly ,  in which the transverse process of the last lumbar vertebra  ( l5 )  fuses to the sacrum on one side or both ,  or to ilium ,  or both .
an anomaly of the inner mucous membrane of the uterus .
the growth of endometrial tissue outside the uterus .
abnormal response to ristocetin as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of ristocetin to platelet - poor plasma .
reduced ability of von willibrand factor  ( vwf )  to bind collagen .
deviation from the normal von willebrand factor multimer pattern .
absence of large von willebrand factor multimers on gel electrophoresis .
detection of abnormal ultra - large von willebrand factor multimers .
complete absence of all von willebrand factor multimers .
lack of intermediate von willebrand factor multimers on gel electrophoresis .
abnormal response to ristocetin as manifested by increased aggregation of platelets upon addition of low - dose ristocetin to platelet - rich plasma .
bleeding that persists for a longer than usual time following circumcision .
an abnormally increased degree of bleeding following a superfical injury to the surface of the skin .
an abnormal high amount of bleeding following the procedure of taking a blood sample .
recurrent or excessive bleeding from the mouth .
an anomaly in the placement or shape of the hairline  ( trichion )  on the back of the head  ( neck )  ,  that is ,  the border between skin on the back of the head that has head hair .
an anomaly of the amount or nature of abdominal sounds .
an increased amount of bowel sounds .
an decreased amount of bowel sounds .
complete lack of abdominal sounds as assayed by examination of the abdomen with a stethoscope .
a structural anomaly of the liver located predominantly in the hepatocytes as opposed to stromal cells .
tremor of the trunk in an anterior - posterior plane at 3 - 4 hz .
an extra or unusual sound heard during a heartbeat caused vibrations resulting from the flow of blood through the heart .
severely decreased cardiac output with evidence of inadequate end - organ perfusion  ( i .e . ,  tissue hypoxia )  in the presence of adequate intravascular volume .
an abnormally increased number of plasma cells in tissues ,  exudates ,  or blood
inflammation of the biliary ductal system ,  affecting the intrahepatic or extrahepatic portions ,  or both .
cholangiocarcinoma is a primary cancer originating in the biliary epithelium i .e . ,  the cholangiocytes ,  of the extrahepatic and intrahepatic biliary ducts .
rupture of the wall of the gallbladder .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the scrotum .
the presence of free monoclonal immunoglobulin light chains in the urine .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  and perceived to originate in the flank .
cervical ectropion occurs when eversion of the endocervix exposes columnar epithelium to the vaginal milieu
abnormal growth of tissue projecting from a mucous membrane of the endocervix .
inflammation of the uterine cervix .
a sensation of itching in the vagina .
abnormally large size of glomeruli .
abnormality of vascular function .
pain in the jaw or ear induced by chewing or otherwise moving the jaw .
the presence of an increased number of twists and turns of the temporal artery .
occurence of excessive sweating during sleep .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against mitochondria .
increase in diameter of the veins located underneath the skin of the abdomen .
extreme dilation of the submucusoal veins in the stomach .
presence of a pseudoaneurysm in the artery that supplies the gallbladder and cystic duct with blood .
a collection of clotted blood surrounding the kidney .
congenital absence of the myelin sheath on a nerve .
increased amount of peripheral myelination .
elevated thickness of the myelin sheath of peripheral nerves ,  in a regular and concentric fashion .
the presence of multiple sausage - shaped swellings of the myelin sheath  ( the latin tomaculum means sausage )  .
loss of myelin from peripheral nerves in a pattern that differs between right and left .
an abnormality of the function of the electrical signals with which peripheral nerve cells communicate with each other or with muscles .
an anomaly in the magnitude of the action potential along a peripheral nerve ,  that is ,  of the rapid rise and fall of the electrical membrane potential of the nerve .
dorsiflexion of the big toe ,  sometimes accompanied by fanning of the other toes ,  elicited by stroking along the medial side of the tibia  ( the normal response would be no movement of the big toe )  .
dorsal extension of the big toe ,  sometimes accompanied by fanning of the other toes ,  elicited by compressing the calf muscles  ( a normal response is no movement of the big toe )  .
loss of strength in all four limbs .
the vestibulo - ocular reflex is responsible for the stabilization of the retinal image during movement .
an isometric tremor occurs with muscle contraction against a rigid stationary object  ( e .g . ,  when making a fist )  .
tremor that occurs during any voluntary movement .
nodding movement of the head or body .
tremor classified by the affected body part .
reduced muscle tone of oral musculature .
an anomaly in the communication from a neuron to a target across a synapse in the peripheral nervous system .
a type of weakness of the bulbar muscles  ( muscles of the mouth and throat responsible for speech and swallowing )  that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
a type of weakness of the muscles involved in chewing that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
a type of weakness of the muscles involved in speech that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
a type of weakness of the muscles involved in swallowing that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
a type of weakness of the muscles involved in breathing  ( respiration )  that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
a type of weakness of skeletal muscle that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
a type of weakness of a skeletal muscle of distal part of a limb that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
a type of weakness of a skeletal muscle in the neck that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
a type of weakness of a skeletal muscle of proximal part of a limb that occurs after a muscle group is used and lessens if the muscle group has some rest .
specific drugs interfere selectively with the different cellular mechanisms involved in neuromuscular transmission  ( synthesis ,  storage ,  release ,  action and inactivation of transmitter )  .
improvement of muscle strength in response to administration of an acetylcholine esterase inhibitor .
lack of improvement of muscle strength in response to administration of an acetylcholine esterase inhibitor .
the variation in the time interval between the two action potentials of the same motor unit is called jitter .
a compound muscle action potential  ( cmap )  is a type of electromyography  ( emg )  .
breathing movements in which the chest wall moves in on inspiration and out on expiration ,  in reverse of the normal movements .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against the acetylcholine receptor .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against voltage - gated calcium channels .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against muscle specific kinase  ( anti - musk ab )  .
reduced velocity and acceleration in the pupillary light response .
excessive or pathological tendency to save and collect possessions .
lack of emotional reactivity and empathy for situations or persons ,  sometime also for family members .
pathological persistent sexual disinhibiting behavior ,  directed at oneself or to others .
uncontrolled episodes of crying ,  without apparent motivating stimuli .
reduction of goal - directed behaviors linked to the impairment in frontal executive functions  ( planning of an action for example )  .
difficulty in performing the correct execution of limbs movements in absence of motor impairment .
punding is a stereotypical motor behavior characterized by an intense fascination with repetitive ,  excessive and non - goal oriented handling ,  and examining of objects .
a progressive loss of the ability to remember the meaning of words ,  faces and objects .
behavior that is not in line with social norms .
excessive desire to eat sweet foods .
difficulty in recognizing objects by visual input in absence of sensorial visual impairment .
perseveration can be defined as the contextually inappropriate and unintentional repetition of a response or behavioral unit .
a deviation from normal in the expression of desmin in muscle tissue .
immunohistochemistry shows accumulation of desmin protein in the muscle biopsy .
a deviation from normal in the expression of myotilin in muscle tissue .
immunohistochemistry shows accumulation of myotilin protein in the muscle biopsy .
a deviation from normal in the expression of valosin - containing protein in muscle tissue .
immunohistochemistry shows accumulation of valosin - containing protein in the muscle biopsy .
the presence of disorganized areas called cores in the center of muscle fibers .
an increased amount of glycogen in muscle tissue found specifically in lysosomes .
elevated glycogen content in the sarcoplasm  ( cytoplasm )  of muscle fibers .
limitation of wrist and finger extension on asking patient to form a prayer sign .
an increased cpk level between 4x and 50x above the upper normal level .
an increased creatine kinase level more than 50x above the upper normal level .
abnormalities of the overall muscle bulk based on clinical observation .
reduced strength of the musculature of the hand .
underdevelopment of the musculature of the upper arm ,  which may include the deltoid ,  the triceps ,  the biceps ,  and the brachioradialis .
underdevelopment of the deltoid muscle .
thrombosis of the portal vein and / or its tributaries ,  which include the splenic vein and the superior and inferior mesenteric veins .
an obstruction in the veins of the liver caused by a blood clot  ( thrombosis )  .
the occurence of an elevated body temperature of the mother during pregnancy .
the occurence of maternal fever during labor .
the occurence of fever in a mother during the first trimester of pregnancy .
the term splanchnic vein thrombosis encompasses budd - chiari syndrome  ( hepatic vein thrombosis )  ,  extrahepatic portal vein obstruction  ( ehpvo )  ,  and mesenteric vein thrombosis ;  the word splanchnic is used to refer to the visceral organs  ( of the abdominal cavity )  .
a clot that obstructs blood flow in a mesenteric vein  ( the superior and the inferior mesenteric vein drain blood from the small and large intestine )  .
a sudden eruption  ( rash )  of the surface of a mucous membrane of the mouth or pharynx .
the presence of multiple granulomata  ( small nodular inflammatory lesions containing grouped mononuclear phagocytes )  in the lung .
complete lack of memory b cells ,  that is ,  of mature b cell type that is long - lived ,  readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ,  and has been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
complete lack of mature b cells ,  that is ,  of b cells that have left the bone marrow .
a reduced ability of a t cell population to expand by cell division following t cell activation .
small areas of bleeding  ( hemorrhage )  under the fingernail or toenail .
the presence of multiple polyps in the large intestine .
the presence of multiple polyps in the small intestine .
one or more brown punctate macules on the skin of the genitalia .
localized or generalized increased genital pigmentation .
localized or generalized decreased genital pigmentation .
length of penis more than 2 sd below the mean for age accompanied by hypospadias .
lack of recognizable penile structures .
penile width more than 2 standard deviations  ( sd )  below the mean for age .
rotated position of the glans ,  with or without the penile shaft ,  of 30 degrees or more .
ventral skinfold extending from penis to scrotum .
distance between left and right side of the flaccid penis at the attachment to the skin above the pubic symphysis more than 2 standard deviations above the mean for age .
deposition of calcium salts in the fibrous sheet that connects the radius and the ulna .
increased growth of callus ,  the bony and cartilaginous material that forms a connecting bridge across a bone fracture during fracture healing .
an elevated level of insulin - like growth factor 1  ( igf1 )  in the blood circulation .
increase in the level of adenosine deaminase  ( ada )  ,  an enzyme involved in purine metabolism ,  within erythrocytes .
this term refers to an inappropriate low 2 , 3 - dpg concentration in erythrocytes .
an altered level of any enzyme to act as catalysts within erythrocytes .
decrease in the level of adenosine deaminase  ( ada )  ,  an enzyme involved in purine metabolism ,  within erythrocytes .
additional scrotum ,  or part of a scrotum in an abnormal location .
scrotum in a position other than the usual position inferior to the base of the penis .
apparently small scrotum for age .
abnormal morphology of a vertebral pedical .
underdeveloped vertebral pedicle .
underdeveloped pedicle of the fifth lumbar vertebra .
radiolucent focal defect of a rib shaft .
fusion of cervical vertebrae at c3 and c4 ,  caused by a failure in the normal segmentation or division of the cervical vertebrae during the early weeks of fetal development .
radiolucent focal defect of the posterior portion of a rib shaft .
only part of the septum pellucidum  ( a thin ,  triangular ,  vertical membrane separating the lateral ventricles of the brain )  is present .
a form of macrogloassia  ( increased size of the tongue )  characterized by a broad based root of the tongue but a small tongue tip ,  giving the appearance of a triangle .
abnormal splayed configuration  ( spreading out )  of the superior cerebellar peduncle .
atrophy of the superior cerebellar peduncle .
an abnormal flattening of an epiphysis of femur .
lack of ossification of the sacrum .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of one or more metaphyses of a bone of the leg .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of a metaphysis of a tibia .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of a metaphysis of a fibula .
an anomaly of the metaphysis of the distal femur  ( close to the knee )  .
presence of only 10  ( instead of the usual 12 )  pairs of ribs .
an anomaly of the anterior commissure ,  a bundle of nerve fibers that connect the two cerebral hemispheres across the midline .
absence of the anterior commissure .
underdevelopment of the anterior commissure .
a deviation from the normal number of vertebrae in the spinal column .
the presence of 11 instead of the normal 12 thoracic vertebrae .
the presence of a splayed  ( i .e . , flared )  metaphyseal segment of one or more long bones of the leg .
the presence of a splayed  ( i .e . , flared )  metaphyseal segment of the distal tibia .
the presence of a splayed  ( i .e . , flared )  metaphyseal segment of the distal fibula .
displacement or malalignment of one or more joints in the upper extremity  ( arm )  .
displacement or malalignment of one or more joints in the lower extremity  ( leg )  .
absence of the spongy bone structure  ( or tissue )  of the internal part of the skull cap  ( i .e . ,  of the calvarial diploe )  .
an anomalous structure of the periosteum ,  i .e . ,  of the membrane that covers the outer surface of bones .
abnormal deposition of periosteal bone .
a type of inflammation of the lips involving one or both of the corners of the mouth .
reduced strength of one or more muscles innervated by the facial nerve  ( the seventh cranial nerve )  .
an increase in the vertical distance between adjacent vertebral bodies ,  observed as an increase in the intervertebral disc space .
an anomaly of the vertebral artery ,  the major artery of the neck that originates from the subclavian artery and merges to form the single midline basilar artery in a complex called the vertebrobasilar system .
underdevelopment of the vertebral artery .
underdevelopment of the vertebral artery on one side .
underdevelopment of the vertebral artery on both sides .
fissure within the spinal cord of the neck .
an anomaly in the number of macrophages .
an anomaly in the number of osteoclasts ,  bone - resorbing cells that develop from macrophages .
decreased number of osteoclasts .
reduced anteroposterior thickness of the retina .
the presence of cartilage cells  ( chondrocytes )  that are substantially increased in size and contain more than one nucleus and are located within the resting zone of the epiphyseal cartilage .
a reduced ability of the skin of the fingertips to wrinkle when exposed to stimuli such as soaking in water or application of emla cream  ( the fingertip remains smooth )  .
a structuraly anomaly of t cells that express an alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a structural anomaly of a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell .
a deviation from the normal count of cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta regulatory t cells .
lack of cd4 + cd25 +  t regulatory cells .
an increased number of cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive regulatory t cells .
an anomaly of the circulating level of a gonadotropin ,  that is ,  of a protein hormone secreted by gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary of vertebrates .
a reduction of the circulating level of a gonadotropin ,  that is ,  of a protein hormone secreted by gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary of vertebrates .
a reduction of the circulating level of follicle - stimulating hormone  ( fsh )  .
a reduction in the circulating level of luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
an anomaly of the circulating level of luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  .
an anomaly of the circulating level of follicle - stimulating hormone  ( fsh )  .
an anomaly in the blood concentration of an androgen ,  that is ,  of a steroid hormone that controls development and maintenance of masculine characteristics .
an elevation of the blood concentration of an androgen ,  that is ,  of a steroid hormone that controls development and maintenance of masculine characteristics .
a reduction in the blood concentration of an androgen ,  that is ,  of a steroid hormone that controls development and maintenance of masculine characteristics .
a circumscribed ,  solid elevation of skin with no visible fluid that is reddish  ( erythematous )  in color .
a well - circumscribed ,  intensely pruritic ,  raised wheal  ( edema of the superficial skin )  typically 1 to 2 cm in diameter .
an anomalous level of insulin - like growth factor 1  ( igf1 )  in the blood circulation .
a reduced level of insulin - like growth factor 1  ( igf1 )  in the blood circulation .
abnormal levels of interferon in the blood .
abnormal levels of interferon gamma measured in the blood circulation .
an elevation in the concentration of interferon gamma measured in the blood circulation .
small cell lung cancer  ( sclc )  is a type of highly malignant lung cancer that is composed of small ovoid cells .
a type of non - small cell lung carcinoma that is derived from stratified squamous epithelial cells .
a type of non - small cell lung carcinoma that is derived from undifferentiated malignant neoplasms originating from transformed epithelial cells in the lung ,  and which is differentiate from small - cell lung carcinoma by the larger size of the anaplastic cells ,  a higher cytoplasmic - to - nuclear size ratio ,  and a lack of salt - and - pepper appearance of the chromatin .
any deviation from the normal concentration in the blood circulation of an icosanoid  ( also known as eicosanoids )  .
a reduction in the level of carnitine in muscle tissue .
delivery by caesarian section representing the first time the mother has delivered by caesarian section .
delivery by caesarian section representing where the mother has already had a previous cesarean delivery ,  and this is a repeat cesarean birth .
vaginal birth after caesarian  ( vbac )  refers to the situation where the mother has had a previous cesarean delivery but has now delivered vaginally .
the odon device is an instrument for assisted vaginal deliveries that is applied on the head of the baby and used to apply traction to assist the birth process .
hyperphalangy is a digit morphology in which increased numbers of phalanges are arranged linearly within a digit .
an accessory phalanx of the index  ( second )  finger that is arranged linearly with the other phalanges .
vaginal delivery following induction of labor ,  a procedure used to stimulate uterine contractions during pregnancy before labor begins on its own .
a deviation in the normal proportion of naive b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 -  / igd +  / igm +  )  relative to the total number of b cells .
an elevation above the normal proportion of naive b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 -  / igd +  / igm +  )  relative to total number of b cells .
a reduction below normal proportion of naive b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 -  / igd +  / igm +  )  relative to total number of b cells .
a deviation of the normal proportion of memory b cells in circulation relative to total number of b cells .
a reduction in the normal proportion of memory b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 +  )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
an elevation in the proportion of memory b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 +  )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
a deviation from normal proportion of immature b cells  ( cd19 +  /  cd21low )  in circulation relative to total number of b cells .
an elevation in the proportion above normal of immature b cells  ( cd19 +  /  cd21low )  in circulation relative to total number of b cells .
a reduction in normal proportion of immature b cells  ( cd19 +  /  cd21low ) in circulation relative to total number of b cells .
a deviation in the normal proportion of transitional b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd38high / igmhigh )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
a reduction in the normal proportion of transitional b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd38high / igmhigh )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
an elevation in the normal proportion of transitional b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd38high / igmhigh )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
a deviation of the normal proportion of marginal zone b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 +  / igm +  / igd +  )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
a reduction in the normal proportion of marginal zone b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 +  / igm +  / igd +  )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
an elevation in the normal proportion of marginal zone b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 +  / igm +  / igd +  )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
a deviation of the normal proportion of class - switched memory b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 +  / igm -  / igd -  )  in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
an increase in the normal proportion of class - switched memory b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 +  / igm +  / igd +  )  relative to the total number of b cells .
a reduction in the normal proportion of class - switched memory b cells  ( cd19 +  / cd27 +  / igm +  / igd +  )  relative to the total number of b cells .
any deivation from the normal concentration in the blood circulation of a thromboxane .
an abnormally decreased concentration of leukotriene c4 in the blood circulation .
reduced ability of lexical discrimination ,  which refers to the process of distinguishing a stimulus word from other phonologically similar words .
intraventricular papillary neoplasm derived from choroid plexus epithelium .
a low - grade papillary epithelial neoplasm  ( adenocarcinoma )  with a slow growth pattern .
carcinoma that originates in the fallopian tube .
platelets are replete with secretory granules ,  which are critical to normal platelet function .
abnormal release of dense granules from platelets .
abnormal secretion of the platelet dense - granule content adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  .
abnormal release of alpha granule contents from platelets .
abnormal release of lysosome contents from platelets .
deviation from normal of the ratio of adenosine triphosphate  ( atp )  to adenosine diphosphate  ( adp )  within platelets .
an abnormality in the rate and degree to which platelets aggregate after the addition of an agonist that stimulates platelet clumping .
clumping together of platelets in the blood in a platelet aggregation test without addition of agents normally used to induce aggregation .
an endocrine tumor of the pancreas that secretes excessive amounts of glucagon .
a neuroendocrine tumor originating in a hormone - producing cell  ( islet cell )  of the pancreas .
a type of cancer that originates in the peritoneum .
a type of pineal parenchymal cell neoplasm that is a mature well - differentiated tumour  ( who grade i )  .
pineoblastoma is a rare primitive neuroectodermal tumour  ( pnet )  arising in the pineal gland .
a malignant tumor that arises from the transitional  ( urothelial )  epithelial cells lining the urinary tract from the renal calyces to the ureteral orifice .
a carcinoma that arises in a sebaseous gland  ( an exocrine gland of the skin that secretes sebum ,  a waxy substance ) 
a malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the jejunum .
a malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the ileum .
a carcinoma derived from a squamous epithelial cell of the tongue .
a low - grade variant of squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue with a warty  ( verrucous )  appearance .
sarcomatoid  ( spindle cell )  carcinomas of the tongue is a variant of squamous carcinoma of tongue that is monoclonal ,  having evolved from a conventional squamous carcinoma with dedifferentiation associated with sarcomatoid transformation .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the female external genital tract  ( vulva )  .
a cancer that originates in the squamous cells that line the surface of the vulva .
a type of vulvar cancer that originates from melanocytes of the vulva .
a cancer arising in a cell of the bartholin gland ,  a racemose gland located slightly posterior to the opening of the vagina .
an adenocarcinoma arising in the vulva .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the epididymis ,  an duct that transports spermatozoa from the testis to the vas deferens .
a closed sac located in the spleen .
a smooth ,  extratesticular ,  spherical cyst in the head of the epididymis .
a cyst of the ovary that exhibits deposition of calcium salts .
a benign central bone tumor composed of fibrous connective tissue within which bone is formed .
a benign central bone tumor of the jaw composed of fibrous connective tissue within which bone is formed .
a myxoma originating in the skin .
a benign but highly vascular nasopharyngeal neoplasm .
a tumor made up of nerve cells and nerve fibers .
a cartilage capped bony outgrowth of a long bone .
a usually benign tumor composed of cells which arise from chondroblasts or their precursors and which tend to differentiate into cartilage cells .
a bening tumor of bone composed of a central zone named nidus which is an atypical bone completely enclosed within a well vascularized stroma and a peripheral sclerotic reaction zone .
pilomatricoma is an asymptomatic slowly growing benign cutaneous tumor ,  differentiating towards the hair matrix of the hair follicle .
fibrofolliculoma is a clinically asymptomatic ,  2 - 4 mm ,  skin - colored ,  dome - shaped smooth papule .
a squamous cell carcinoma that originates in the anal canal .
an adenoma carcinoma that originates in the anal canal .
a tumor of the anal margin .
an intraepithelial adenocarcinoma originating in the anal margin and characterized by presence of typical paget's cells ,  appearing as large rounded vacuolated cells .
a squamous cell carcinoma that originates in the skin of the anal margin .
a basal cell carcinoma that originates in the anal margin .
a melanoma that originates in the anal margin .
a malignant neuroendocrine tumor of the lung .
a malignant cutaneous tumor of the elderly that is characterized by an aggressive course with regional nodal involvement ,  distant metastases and a high rate of recurrence .
a type of sarcoma  ( a connective tissue neoplasm formed by proliferation of mesodermal cells )  that develops from soft tissues like fat ,  muscle ,  nerves ,  fibrous tissues ,  blood vessels ,  or deep skin tissues .
delivery by means of therapeutic termination of pregnancy .
a tumor that arises from an element of the autonomic nervous system .
a closed fluid filled sac originating from the mesentary .
a type of mesenteric cyst that is lined with a thin endothelium or mesothelium and filled with chylous and lymphatic fluid .
the clinical electro - oculogram  ( eog )  is an electrophysiological test of function of the outer retina and retinal pigment epithelium  ( rpe )  in which changes in electrical potential across the rpe are recorded during successive periods of dark and light adaptation .
no detectable response to the light - adapted 3 .0 erg  ( single - flash cone response )  .
an anomalous response to a pattern electroretinogram  ( perg )  ,  a particular kind of erg obtained in response to contrast modulation of patterned visual stimuli at constant mean luminance - typically contrast - reversing gratings or checkerboards - whose characteristics are fundamentally different from those of the traditional erg in response to diffuse flashes of light .
an abnormal reduction in the amplitude of the a - wave .
atrophy of the capillary lamina of choroid .
an anomaly of the pigmentation in the fovea centralis .
small ,  red dots in the superficial retinal layers  ( it is difficult to distinguish between small hemorrhages and microaneurysms )  .
any structural anomaly of the blood vessels of the macula .
yellow - white intraretinal deposits in the macula typically associated with damaged outer blood - retina barrier and exudation of serous fluid and lipids from the retinal microvasculature .
fluffy white patch on the macula ,  representing localized areas of dense white swelling of the retinal nerve fibre layer .
abnormal increase in retinal thickness in the macular area observed on fundoscopy or fundus imaging .
drusen  ( singular ,  'druse' )  are tiny yellow or white accumulations of extracellular material  ( lipofuscin )  that build up in bruch's membrane of the eye .
crystalline deposits in the macula .
splitting of the neuroretinal layers of the retina .
clumped pigmentary changes of nummular appearance  ( i .e . ,  thought to resemble the shape of a coin or multiple coins stuck together )  at the level of the retinal pigment epithelium .
crystalline deposits in the retina .
difficulty in seeing moving objects .
moderate reduction of the ability to see defined as visual acuity less than 6 / 18  ( 20 / 60 in us notation ;  0 .5 in decimal notation )  but at least 6 / 60  ( 20 / 200 in us notation ;  0 .1 in decimal notation )  .
a diminution of the peripheral visual field whereby at least 50 degrees of central field are preserved in all meridians .
peripheral visual field constriction with 20 - 49 degrees binocular visual field preserved .
peripheral visual field constriction with 10 - 19 degrees central field preserved .
peripheral visual field constriction with  < 10 degrees central field preserved .
abnormal result of a test designed to test an individual's central and peripheral vision by determining the ability of the individual to perceive objects at differing locations of the visual field .
fundus autofluorescence  ( faf )  is a non - invasive retinal imaging modality used in clinical practice to provide a density map of lipofuscin ,  the predominant ocular fluorophore ,  in the retinal pigment epithelium .
an abnormality observed by retinal fluorescein angiography ,  which involves the intravenous injection of fluorescein dye followed by fluorescent imaging of the fundus immediately after injection and for up to ten minutes thereafter .
loss of the outer nuclear layer  ( photoreceptor layer )  as assessed by ocular coherence tomography .
increased amount of autofluorescence in the macula as ascertained by fundus autofluorescence imaging .
decreased amount of autofluorescence in the macula as ascertained by fundus autofluorescence imaging .
occult macular dystrophy is a ,  typically hereditary ,  abnormality of the macula associated with progressive foveal cone dysfunction and no apparent fundoscopic ,  full - field electroretinogram  ( erg )  ,  or fluorescein angiogram abnormalities .
retinal phenotype characterised by cone photoreceptor dysfunction and preserved rod system .
applies to an abnormality that is located close to the median plane or midline of the body or of the referenced structure .
vitreous haze is the obscuration of fundus details by vitreous cells and protein exudation .
any cystic lesion associated with the umbilical cord .
an entwining of a segment of umbilical cord ,  usually without obstructing fetal circulation and commonly result from fetal slippage through a loop of the cord .
focal dilation of the umbilical vein .
bleeding from the vessels of the cord with extravasation of blood into the wharton jelly surrounding the umbilical cord vessels .
insertion of the umbilical cord within 2 cm from the placental edge .
insertion of the umbilical cord into the chorio - amniotic membranes of the placenta .
branching of the umbilical cord before its insertion into the placenta .
yellow - white inflammatory aggregates in the vitreous that are found in the midvitreous and inferior periphery .
the presence of inflammatory cells such as lymphocytes and macrophages in the vitreous .
vestigial vitreous gel occupying the immediate retrolental space and minimal to no discernable gel in the central vitreous cavity ,  giving the appearance of an empty vitreous cavity .
weakness of the inferior portion of the rectus abdominal muscle ,  which is ascertained clinically as follows .
rubral tremor is characterized by a slow coarse tremor at rest that is exacerbated by postural adjustments and by guided voluntary movements .
in wound repair ,  neovascularization  ( nv )  involves the sprouting of new vessels from pre - existent vessels to repair or replace damaged vessels .
a type of retinal neovascularization that affects the periphery of the retina .
a cyst that is localized in the region of the orbit and exhibits an epithelial lining with a keratin - filled lumen .
a structural anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
a hamartoma  ( disordered proliferation of mature tissues )  which can originate from any tissue of the orbital region .
any anomaly of the ring of fibrous tissue that surrounds the optic nerve at its entrance at the apex of the orbit .
the presence of small ,  white vitreous opacities consisting of calcium phosphate and complex ,  layered lipid deposits .
a form of vitreoretinopathy characterized by thinning  ( erosion )  of the retinal pigment epithelium that permits increased visualization of the choroidal vessels .
onset prior to birth .
chronic loss of joint motion of the proximal interphalangeal joint of the 2nd ,  3rd ,  4th ,  and 5th fingers due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
sharp pointed superior portion of the ear ,  with variable overfolding of the helix .
a congenital auricular deformity ,  which is mainly characterized by a bulging appearance of the anterosuperior portion of the auricle ,  a convexly protruded cavum conchae ,  and a slit - like narrowing of the orifice of the external auditory meatus .
a hypopigmented spot in the shape of a leaf from the mountain ash tree .
any structural anomaly of the heart and great vessels .
any structural anomaly of the muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the right and left ventricles of the heart  ( cardiac trabeculae ,  trabeculae carneae )  .
left ventricular noncompaction  ( lvnc )  is defined by 3 markers: prominent left ventricular  ( lv )  trabeculae ,  deep intertrabecular recesses ,  and the thin compacted layer .
inflammation of the vagina that can result from a spectrum of conditions that cause vaginal and sometimes vulvar symptoms ,  such as itching ,  burning ,  irritation ,  odor ,  and vaginal discharge .
a deviation from the normal circulating concentration of adiponectin ,  a 30 - kda complement c1 - related protein that is the most abundant secreted protein expressed in adipose tissue ,  and that plays a crucial role in the regulation of insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism .
a reduced circulating concentration of adiponectin ,  a 30 - kda complement c1 - related protein that is the most abundant secreted protein expressed in adipose tissue .
an elevated circulating concentration of adiponectin ,  a 30 - kda complement c1 - related protein that is the most abundant secreted protein expressed in adipose tissue .
a deviation from the normal concentration of glucagon in the blood circulation .
an elevated concentration of glucagon in the blood circulation .
a reduced concentration of glucagon in the blood circulation .
a fissure in the gingiva  ( gums )  ,  i .e . ,  the mucosal tissue that lies over the mandible and maxilla .
a condition in which both eyes beat outward simultaneously .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from or metastasizes to the brain .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that occurs within the intracranial cavity above the tentorium cerebelli .
a ranula is a mucocele that occurs in the floor of the mouth and usually involve the major salivary glands .
lack of development of one lung .
the severe form of a neural tube defect where the open neural tube appears as a flattened ,  plate - like mass of nervous tissue with no overlying membrane .
myelocystocele is characterized by a large ,  ependyma - lined ,  cystic dilation of the caudal end of the central canal of the spinal cord ;  it projects dorsally through a lamina defect ,  with overlying varying amounts of lipomatous subcutaneous tissue .
a form of closed neural tube defect in which the spinal tissue lies within the spinal cord having a junction between the spinal cord and the lipoma .
distention of the vagina caused by accumulation of fluid due to congenital vaginal obstruction .
adhesions or scar tissue that form inside the cavity of the uterus .
gross dilatation of the vein of galen ,  being fed by large anomalous vessel or vessels arising from the carotid or basilar circulation .
a large maternal clot that separates the chorionic plate from the villous chorion .
a developmental anomaly characterised by focal obliteration of the proximal segment of a bronchus .
partial or complete absence of the flat bones of the cranial vault .
peritonitis caused by intrauterine intestinal rupture and spillage of fetal meconium into the fetal peritoneal cavity .
increase in size of the right atrium .
a form of agenesis of the tricuspid valve in which  ( although the normal orifice between the right atrium and right ventricle exists )  there is no tricuspid valvular tissue .
cyst on the surface of the placenta consisting of amnion and chorion .
phocomelia involving all four extremities .
ectopic liver is a rare developmental anomaly in which liver tissue is situated outside the liver .
dilation and elongation of the penile urethra associated with absence or hypoplasia of the corpora spongiosa and cavernosa .
a fluid - filled sac  ( cyst )  located within the central nervous system .
the neurenteric cyst is a rare lesion composed of heterotopic endodermal tissue .
a neurenteric cyst located in the spine .
a neurenteric cyst located within the skull .
partial absence of a free limb  ( excluding girdle )  .
a herniation of meninges through a congenital bone defect in the skull at the junction of the frontal and ethmoidal bones .
a herniation of meninges through a congenital bone defect in the skull in the parietal region .
a malignant tumor arising from epithelial cells .
a congenital malformation of the tricuspid valve characterized by leaflet deformation .
an abdominal wall defected related to a developmental anomaly of the allantois ,  which is an embryonic structure that develops as a diverticulum off the yolk sac at about 16 days post fertilization .
blockage at the level of the bladder and the ureter caused by stenosis of the ureteral valves or failure of a narrow juxtavesical ureteral segment to dilate due to segmented fibrosis or localized absence of muscle .
a teratoma arising in the sacro - coccygeal region .
a type of sacrococcygeal teratoma that is predominantly external and projects from the sacrococcygeal region and presents with distortion of the buttocks .
a type of sacrococcygeal teratoma that is predominantly external but has a large intrapelvic component .
a type of sacrococcygeal teratoma that is predominantly intrapelvic with a small external ,  buttock mass .
an accessory  ( not normally present )  muscle bundle in the right ventricle which obstructs the right ventricular outflow tract .
a teratoma located within the mediastinum  ( the cavity between the pleural sacs that contains the heart and all of the thoracic viscera except the lungs )  .
this anomaly ,  also known as mittendorf dot ,  is a benign ,  nonprogressive recognizable lesion that does not cause visual impairment .
persistance of a posterior remnant of the hyaloid artery located at the optic disc .
a type of persistance of the hyaloid vascular system associated with a retrolental mass that may lead to fetal cataract .
a saccular or fusiform dilation and elongation of the ductus arteriosus .
bleeding into the ventricles of the brain .
intraventricular hemorrhage that occurs in a premature infant .
intraventricular hemorrhage that occurs in a preterm infant and that is restricted to subependymal region / germline matrix which is seen in the caudothalamic groove .
intraventricular hemorrhage that occurs in a preterm infant and that has extension into normal - sized ventricles and typically fills less than 50% of the volume of the ventricle .
intraventricular hemorrhage that occurs in a preterm infant and that has extension into dilated ventricles .
intraventricular hemorrhage that occurs in a preterm infant and that shows parenchymal extension .
a nasolacrimal duct obstruction presenting as a grey - blue cystic swelling just below the medial canthus .
loss of one twin occurring after midgestation  ( 17 weeks gestation )  .
a swelling formed at the base of umbilicus associated with a patent urachus which results from an allantoic remnant .
a teratoma located in the craniofacial region .
reddish ,  brown opalescent discoloration of teeth in normal light .
a pocket of pus located within a region of a tooth .
a tooth abscess that occurs at the tip of the root  ( apex )  of a tooth .
an increase in mean adipocyte cell size .
renal fibrosis is the consequence of an excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix that occurs in virtually every type of chronic kidney disease .
dissolution or attenuation of mesangial matrix and degeneration of mesangial cells .
a sheet like projection that can result from uterine synechiae that has been encompassed by the expanding chorion and amnion .
brown or blue - gray discoloration of the skin that can present on the axillary and inguinal areas ,  face ,  palms or soles .
episodes of intense fear ,  screaming and flailing although affected individuals are still asleep .
pain in the ear can be a consequence of otologic disease  ( primary or otogenic otalgia )  ,  or can arise from pathologic processes and structures other than the ear  ( secondary or referred otalgia )  .
epignathus is a teratoma originating from the upper jaw ,  usually connected with the sphenoid bone or hard palate .
a malformation of the neural tube with a large amount of protruding brain tissue and absence of calvarium .
a neural tube defect in which both the brain and spinal cord remain open to varying degrees .
mallet finger refers to a condition in which the end joint of a finger bends but will not straighten by itself .
proximal femoral focal deficiency is a deformity manifested by hypoplasia of a variable portion of the femur with shortening of the entire limb .
an abnormality of conjugate lateral gaze in which the affected eye shows impairment of adduction .
the mitochondrial matrix refers to the substance occupying the space enclosed by the inner membrane of a mitochondrion ,  which contains enzymes ,  dna ,  granules ,  and inclusions of protein crystals ,  glycogen ,  and lipid .
an abnormal magnetic resonance tomography signal from a vertebral endplate according to a widely used classification published by dr . michael modic .
an abnormal magnetic resonance tomography signal from a vertebral endplate with a low signal on t1 - weighted sequences and high signal on t2 - weighted sequences .
an abnormal magnetic resonance tomography signal from a vertebral endplate with a high signal on t1 - weighted sequences and high -  or isointense signal on t2 sequences .
an abnormal magnetic resonance tomography signal from a vertebral endplate with a low signal on t1 and t2 - weighted sequences .
ethmocephaly is the rarest form of holoprosencephaly ,  which occurs due to an incomplete cleavage of the forebrain .
an anomaly of the protein c anticoagulant pathway ,  which serves as a major system for controlling thrombosis ,  limiting inflammatory responses ,  and potentially decreasing endothelial cell apoptosis in response to inflammatory cytokines and ischemia .
a higher than normal levels of the fatty acids which can occur in plasma as a result of lipolysis in adipose tissue or when plasma triacyglycerols are taken into tissues .
an abnormal amount of any of the interleukins ,  a class of cytokines ,  in the circulation .
an increased concentration of interleukin - 6 in the circulation .
an inability to name people and objects that are correctly perceived .
a lymphangioma  ( congenital malformation consisting of focal proliferations of well - differentiated lymphatic tissue in multi cystic or sponge like structures )  located within the mediastinum ,  i .e . ,  the central compartment of the thoracic cavity that is surrounded by loose connective tissue .
perceived flashes of light .
any anomaly of the cerumen  ( ear wax )  ,  the yellowish waxy substance secreted in the ear canal .
blockage of the external auditory canal by a buildup of earwax .
an increased quantity of earwax .
an anomolous earwax color .earwax  ( cerumen )  is usually light to dark brown or orange in color .
a structural anomaly of the jaw ,  the bony structure of the mouth that consists of the mandible and the maxilla .
a tumor originating in the jaw  ( mandible or maxilla )  .
abnormal enlargement in the upper jaw  ( maxilla )  or in the lower jaw  ( mandible )  .
an anomolous circulating concentration of the connecting  ( c )  peptide ,  which links the insulin a and b chains in proinsulin ,  providing thereby a means to promote their efficient folding and assembly in the endoplasmic reticulum during insulin biosynthesis .
a decreased concentration of c - peptide in the circulation .
an elevated concentration of c - peptide in the circulation .
a diminished volume of the central part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis .
the stria terminalis is a slender ,  compact fiber bundle that connects the amygdala  ( amygdaloid body )  with the hypothalamus and other basal forebrain regions .
scaphocephaly is a subtype of dolichocephaly where the anterior and posterior aspects of the cranial vault are pointed  ( boat - shaped )  .
an anomaly in the process of visual accommodation ,  which is the process of adjustment of the eye to enable sharp vision of objects at different distances .
a decreased ability of the eye to adjust and thereby enable sharp vision of objects at different distances .
inferior malposition of the lower eyelid margin without eyelid eversion .
abnormal flat nail .
excessive longitudinal ridging that gives the surface of the nail plate a rough appearance .
lack of the lunula at the base of a nail .
nails whose growth is quicker than normal .
nail whose growth pattern or speed deviates from normal .
the cuticle  ( properly known as the eponychium ,  or the medial nail fold or the proximal nail fold )  ,  is the thickened layer of skin surrounding fingernails and toenails .
any structural anomaly of the tongue .
any functional anomaly of the tongue .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the tongue .
increase in size of the tonsils ,  small collections of lymphoid tissue facing into the aerodigestive tract on either side of the back part of the throat .
lack of observable tonsillar tissue .
a phenomenon of orange colored oral tonsils .
a lipoma localized to the tongue .
the loss of gum tissue .
severe nail curvature ,  causing the tip of the nail to point downwards with respect to the axis of the finger .
the presense of a depressed line  (  \ "canal \ " )  in the center of the nail .
nails that slope upward at the free edge .
eyelid partly covered by skin when eyes are open .
lower eyelid partly covered by skin when eyes are open .
upper eyelid partly covered by skin when eyes are open .
increased dimension of the sclera in the anterior - posterior axis .
change in the color of the fundus from red in the dark - adapted state to golden immediately or shortly after the onset of the light .
lack of the foveal reflex ,  which normally occurs as a result of the reflection of light from the ophthalmoscope in the foveal pit upon examination .
tiny ,  repetitive muscle contractions in the eyelids ,  causing the appearance of twitching .
a high - pitched whistling sound associated with labored breathing .
an anomalous  ( adventitious )  sound produced by the breathing process .
crackles are discontinuous ,  explosive ,  and nonmusical adventitious lung sounds normally heard in inspiration and sometimes during expiration .
abnormal breath sounds characterized by low - pitched ,  snoring or rattle - like sounds .
fiber -  or rope - like opacities located within the vitreous humor .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the neck .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the shoulder .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the elbow .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the wrist .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the finger .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the hip .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the knee .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the ankle .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the toe .
incidents in which a piece of food or other objects get stuck in the upper airway and provoke coughing ,  gagging ,  inability to talk ,  and difficulty breathing .
extracellular deposition in cardiac tissue of a proteinaceous material that ,  when stained with congo red ,  demonstrates apple - green birefringence under polarized light and that has a distinct color when stained with sulfated alcian blue .
absent response to a pattern electroretinogram  ( perg )  .
heliotrope rash is a violaceous discoloration of the eyelids associated with periorbital edema .
an anomaly of venous function .
an anomaly of the jugular venous pressure .
increased jugular venous pressure .
the examiner applies firm but persistent pressure over the liver for 10 seconds while observing the mean jugular venous pressure .
an anomaly of the pulse pressure ,  which is defined as the systolic pressured minus the diastolic pressure .
reduced amplitude of the pulse pressure  ( systolic blood pressure minus diastolic blood pressure )  .
increased amplitude of the pulse pressure  ( systolic blood pressure minus diastolic blood pressure )  .
an abnormality in which the internal thoraco - abdominal organs demonstrate abnormal arrangement across the left - right axis of the body .
a staphyloma is a localized defect in the eye wall with protrusion of uveal tissue due to alterations in scleral thickness and structure .
a localized defect in the anterior eye wall with protrusion of uveal tissue due to alterations in scleral thickness and structure .
a localized defect in the posterior eye wall with protrusion of uveal tissue due to alterations in scleral thickness and structure .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the eye that is worse in certain directions of gaze and during prolonged gaze holding .
a recurrent pattern of behavior that is characeterized by the failure to resist an impulse ,  drive ,  or temptation to perform an act that is harmful to the person or to others .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against topoisomerase i .
abnormal concentration of amyloid in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
reduced concentration of amyloid in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
increased concentration of amyloid in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
widening of the nostrils upon inhalation as a manifestation of respiratory distress .
a pulling inward of the soft tissues between the ribs upon inhalation .
abnormal increased size of the elbow joint .
abnormally increased size of the knee joint .
the orbits do not lie on the same horizontal plane ,  that is ,  one eye is lower than the other .
having only one testis in the scrotum .
an abnormality of xy sexual development characterized by the absence of both testes at birth .
an anomaly of the small joints located between and behind adjacent vertebrae .
osteoarthritis of facet joints in the spine .
an abnormality of the cardiac ventricular function .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against the centromeres or centromere components .
oxygen saturation less than 95% on exertion or arterial partial pressure of oxygen falling by more than 1kpa .
a functional anomaly of that portion of the cardiosvascular system that carries deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs and returns oxygenated blood back to the heart .
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure  ( pcwp )  above 15mmhg .
abnormally low fev1 / fvc  ( fev1  -  forced expiratory volume in 1 second ;  fvc forced vital capacity )  .
any anomaly measure by pulmonary function testing ,  which includes spirometry ,  measures of diffusing capacity ,  and plethysmography .
presence of thickening of the interlobular septa of the lungs as seen on a ct scan .
trapping and compression of the rotator cuff tendons during shoulder movements .
enlargement of the diameter  ( cross - section )  of a coronary artery as defined by a focal dilation of a segment at least 1 .5 times larger than the reference vessel .
femoroacetabular impingement  ( fai )  results from one or more bony abnormalities that lead to abnormal contact between the acetabulum and the femoral head or neck .
feeding problem necessitating gastrojejunal tube feeding .
increased susceptibility to parasitic infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of parasitic infection .
a anomaly in the rate of apoptosis in lymphocytes .
a elevation in the rate of apoptosis in lymphocytes .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against c3 convertase  ( c3bbb )  .
substantially shortened length of the small intestine as a result of a developmental defect .
a brighter than expected signal on magnetic resonance imaging emanating from the cerebral white matter .
areas of brighter than expected signal on magnetic resonance imaging emanating from the cerebral white matter that surrounds the cerebral ventricles .
areas of brighter than expected signal on magnetic resonance imaging emanating from locations distant from the ventricular system .
pulmonary vasodilator testing is performed during right - heart catheterization and involves a short - acting vasoactive agent such as adenosine ,  epoprostenol ,  or inhaled nitric oxide .
no fall in mean pulmonary arterial pressure  ( mpap )  falls by at least 10 mmhg to an absolute value less than 40 mmhg without a degradation in cardiac output  ( co )  in response to a short - acting vasoactive agent such as adenosine ,  epoprostenol ,  or inhaled nitric oxide .
an anomaly of the muscular contractions that propel food though the gastrointestinal tract .
a deviation from the normal amount of time required for food to pass through the intestines .
a reduction in the length of time required for food to pass through the intestines .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
a type of primitive reflex characterized by an involuntary contraction of the mentalis muscle of the chin caused by stimulation of the thenar eminence of the palm .
a type of primitive reflex that can be elicated when the hand of the examiner is gently inserted into the palm of the patient's hand .
a type of primitive reflex that is elicited by repetitive tapping on the forehead .
a type of primitive reflex that is elicited by tapping the upper lip lightly .
a type of primitive reflex that is elicited by lightly touching or tapping on the lips with an object such as a tongue blade ,  reflex hammer ,  or the examiner's finger .
severe head pain with sudden onset ,  reaching its maximum intensity in less than one minute and lasting from one hour to ten days .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against p450 2d6 ,  a cytochrome p450 mono - oxygenase .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against a 60 - kd peptide contained in the liver cytosolic fraction .
two clitorides located side by side .
supernumerary clitoris .
marked rugae formation of the skin of the labia majora .
an anomaly of the wave - like muscle contractions of the digestive tract .
swelling from fluid accumulation  ( serous fluid infiltration into the interstitial space )  in the cerebellum .
a velvety red but not ulcerated lesion of the oral mucosa .
a structural anomaly of the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue of the intestine .
abnormal layering of the intestinal muscularis propria into three layers ;   ( 1 )  inner circular ;   ( 2 )  additional oblique ;  and  ( 3 )  outer longitudinal layer .
the presence of excessive fibrous connective tissue in the muscularis propria of the intestine .
aggregates of stainable substances  ( proteins )  in the nuclei of enteric neurons .
an increased thickness of the eyelid not related to acute inflammation .
pain in the vulvar area
raised tissue masses located on the palpebral conjunctiva with a central vessel .
small ,  dome - shaped nodules without a prominent central vessel located on the conjunctiva .
increased level of the enzyme gamma - glutamyltransferase  ( ggt )  .
an abnormal accumulation of protein in the glomerulus .
an abnormal increase in pressure in the pulmonary veins ,  usually as a result of left atrial hypertension .
excessive formation of fibrous bands of scar tissue in between muscle fibers .
multiple cream - yellow colored hypopigmented choroidal anomalies whose size is approximately one quarter to one half of that of the optic disc ,  and whose location tends to cluster around the optic nerve radiating towards the periphery .
dilatation of the blood vessels of the conjunctiva leading to a red appearance of the sclera .
an addictive behavior defined as drinking excessive amounts of alcohol over a long period of time ,  having difficulty reducing the amount of alcohol consumed ,  strongly desiring alcohol and experiencing withdrawal symptoms when not drinking alcohol .
an anomaly of the electrical conduction physiology of the heart .
a bowing  ( bulging to one side )  of the interventricular septum of more than 15 mm on either side in adults and 5 mm in children during normal cardiac motion .
bowing  ( bulging out )  of the membranous part of the interventricular septum of more than 10 - 15 mm into the cavity of an adjacent ventricle  ( usually into the right ventricle )  .
bowing  ( bulging out )  of the muscular part of the interventricular septum of more than 10 - 15 mm into the cavity of an adjacent ventricle  ( usually into the right ventricle )  .
lens of the eye is smaller than normal and spherically shaped .
a structural anomaly affecting a blood vessel involved in the circulation of the heart ,  i .e . ,  the superior or inferior vena cava ,  the pulmonary arteries ,  the pulmonary veins ,  and the aorta .
the elastic properties of the aorta allow the aorta to store half of the cardiac ejected blood volume per beat ,  whereby aortic recoil during diastole pushes the remaining stored volume forward into the peripheral circulation ,  a phenomenon known as the windkessel function .
an abnormality of the structure of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormality of the function of the pulmonary artery .
an abnormality of the structure of the pulmonary veins .
an abnormality of the function of the pulmonary veins .
an abnormality of the function of the veins that return deoxygenated blood from the body into the heart ,  i .e . ,  the superior vena cava and the inferior vena cava .
a chronic deviation from normal pressure in the systemic arterial system .
a subjective feeling of tiredness characterized by a lack of energy and motivation and that is induced by exertion or exercise .
a type of low sperm count where ejaculated semen contains less than 100 , 000 spermatozoa per ml .
an abnormal curved or vaulted  ( capped )  structure covering the middle third of the dorsal pontine tegmentum and projecting into the fourth ventricle .
a deviation from the normal activity of coagulation factor viii .
increased activity of the coagulation factor viii .
a reduction below normal limits of the ratio of the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  albumin concentration to serum albumin concentration .
enlargement of the large blood vessels in the choroid .
an decrease in the level of glutamine in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a deviation from the normal range of the ratio of the albumin concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  to the concentration in serum  ( which may be defined as 3 .2 - 9 .0 )  .
a sex cord - stromal tumor of the ovary .
a deviation from the normal concentration of serum bile acid concentration .
a reduction in the concentration of bile acid in the blood .
hyperplasia of lining epithelia of the septal and large bile ducts manifesting as micropapillary projections or as a stratification of the epithelium with or without dilatation of the duct lumen .
cholangitis characterized by the presence of numerous polymorphonuclear cells around and within the wall as well as within the lumen of the ducts .
cholangitis characterized by the accumulation of granulomas .
cholangitis characterized by a close association between duct branches ,  usually interlobular bile ducts ,  and lymphocytic aggregates ,  which may show a follicular arrangement .
cholangitis associated with mixed inflammatory infiltrates and the presence of fibrosis or sclerosis of the biliary tree .
cholangitis associated with evident ductal fibrosis that develops as a consequence of long - standing bile duct inflammatory ,  obstruction ,  or ischemic injury ;  it can be obliterative or nonobliterative .
any structural anomaly of the pancreatic duct ,  which is the tubular structure that collects exocrine pancreatic secretions and transports them to the duodenum .
a congenital anomaly characterized by the presence of two separate pancreatic ducts .
a congenital anomaly of the pancreas that results from failed fusion of the dorsal and ventral ducts during embyological development .
an increase in the amount of fluid present in the peritoneal cavity  ( between the layers of the peritoneum that lines the abdomen )  .
dilation and elongation of the duodenum with hypertrophy of all layers of the duodenum .
abnormal closure or blockage of the vas deferens .
drainage of cerebrospinal fluid through the nose .
any structural anomaly of the saccule of the vestibule .
deterioration or loss of the tissues of the saccule of the vestibule .
a nerve fascicle or fasciculus is a small bundle of axons ,  enclosed by the perineurium .
inflammation of a nerve .
simulataneous inflammation of multiple nerves .
areflexia that is limited to one side of the body .
abnormally increased sensitivity to pain .
a type of paresthesia  ( tingling ,  pins - and - needles ,  burning or numbness or stiffness )  that occurs in the hands and feet and particularly in the fingers and toes .
involuntary protrusions ,  movements ,  spams and contortions of the tongue .
development of a fibrotic constriction ring involving the base of one or more toes ,  conditioning eversion and absorption of distal structures ,  possibly progressing to spontaneous amputation .
an accessory phalanx of the third  ( middle )  finger that is arranged linearly with the other phalanges .
yellow - colored streaks ,  patches ,  or spots on the intimal surface of arteries .
thin - cap fibroatheroma is characterized by a relatively large necrotic core with an overlying thin fibrous cap measuring  < 65 m typically containing numerous macrophages ,  and is considered to be the precursor lesion of plaque rupture which is the most common cause of coronary thrombosis .
a reduction of joint mobility resulting from changes involving the articular surfaces .
usually ,  three large arteries arise from the arch of the aorta: the brachiocephalic trunk  ( divided into the right common carotid artery and the right subclavian artery )  ,  the left common carotid artery ,  and the left subclavian artery .
sclerosis of the intrahepatic portal veins of the liver and generally accompanied by non - cirrhotic portal hypertension ,  features of which may include splenomegaly and varices .
areas of radio - opaque sclerotic bands alternating with those of normal lucency give rise to stripes akin to a zebra .
multiple defects in the atrial septum .
eccrine syringofibroadenoma  ( esfa )  is a benign adnexal tumor arising most often on the extremities of elderly individuals characterized by anastomosing cords of cuboidal epithelial cells surrounded by a fibrovascular stroma containing plasma cells and ductal structures .
nuclear lobes of neutrophils in the bone marrow are thickened and condensed ,  and individual lobes are connected by unusually long chromatin filaments .
a larger than normal amount or percentage of hematopoietic cells relative to marrow fat .
a benign epithelial neoplasm characterized by a papillary growth pattern and a proliferation of neoplastic squamous cells without morphologic evidence of malignancy  [ nci thesaurus ]  .
a benign exophytic neoplasm that arises from the oropharynx .
multiple painful ,  dome - shaped ,  translucent pink to skin - colored papules on oral mucosa .
a benign skin adnexal tumor of eccrine differentiation .
a malignant neoplasm of the stomach that grows submucosally in the gastric wall .
the ilia is round and hypoplastic with a very flat acetabular roof and a very unusual medial projection of bone that is said to resemble the head of a snail .
a small v - shaped indentation on the internal aspect of the femoral head .
serum sample with a grossly white  ( milk - like ,  i .e . ,  lactescent )  appearance .
an increased blood concentration of the carcinoembryonic antigen  ( cea )  .
an increased blood concentration of carcinoma antigen 125  ( ca - 125 )  .
a deviation from normal blood concentration of retinol - binding protein  ( rbp )  .
a reduced blood concentration of retinol - binding protein .
the kidney contributes towards acid - base homeostasis by excreting h +  ions and retaining bicarbonate .
a deviation from the normal blood concentration of the insulin like growth factor binding protein acid labile subunit  ( igfals ;  entrez gene id 3483 )  .
presence of a protracted or persistent infection by a pathogen potentially related to an underlying abnormality of the immune system that is not able to clear the infection .
a decreased blood concentration of growth hormone binding protein .
blood concentration of insulin - like factor 3  ( ilf3 )  is below normal limits .
maturation arrest  ( ma )  is defined as germ cells that fail to complete maturation .
a type of maturation arrest in which only spermatogonia or spermatocytes are found .
a type of maturation arrest in which spermatids are detected without spermatozoa .
blockage of blood flow through the superior vena cava  ( svc )  .
inflammed tongue with hyperplastic  ( enlarged )  fungiform papillae that is said to resemble a strawberry or raspberry .
a type of brachydactyly characterized by brachymesophalangy affecting mainly the 2nd and 5th digits .
a type of brachydactyly characterized by absent middle phalanges of digits 2 to 5 .
bullae  ( defined as fluid - filled blisters more than 5 mm in diameter with thin walls )  of the skin with an acral distribution  ( affecting peripheral regions such as hands and feet ) 
a developmental defect characterized by lack of a soft palate .
an abnormal immunoglobulin or part of an ig  ( light chain )  in the circulation .
an abnormal immunoglobulin light chain in the circulation and typically produced by a clonal population of b - cell derived plasma cells .
an abnormal immunoglobulin heavy chain in the circulation and typically produced by a clonal population of b - cell derived plasma cells .
an abnormal immunoglobulin  ( heavy and light chain )  in the circulation and typically produced by a clonal population of b - cell derived plasma cells .
an elevation in bone density in one or more tarsal bones of the foot .
increased blood concentration of vascular endothelial growth factor  ( vegf )  .
narrowing or constriction of the aorta localized to the region of the transverse aortic arch .
coarctation of the aorta is a narrowing or constriction of a long segment of the arch of the aorta .
a deviance from the norm of the origin or course of the right brachiocephalic artery ,  the left common carotid artery ,  the left subclavian artery or the proximal vertebral arteries ,  whereby the aortic arch descends on the left as normal  ( as opposed to right aortic arch )  .
a localized circumferential  ( i .e . ,  bulges on all sides )  dilatation or ballooning of a cerebral artery .
a clearly - defined and roughly linear cleavage in the skin that usually extends to the dermis .
difficulty in performing one or more activities normally performed every day ,  such as eating ,  bathing ,  dressing ,  grooming ,  work ,  homemaking ,  and leisure .
this term applies to an individual who requires help to bathe more than one part of the body ,  get in or out of the tub or shower ,  or who requires total bathing .
this applies to an individual who needs help with dressing or needs to be completely dressed .
this term applies to an individual who requires help transferring to the toilet ,  cleaning self or who uses bedpan or commode .
applies to an individual who needs help in moving from bed to chair or requires a complete transfer .
applies to an individual who needs partial or total help with feeding or requires parenteral feeding .
partial or total incontinence of bowel or bladder .
any anomaly of ovarian function .
a failure to collect oocytes after an apparently normal controlled ovarian hyperstimulation cycle for in vitro fertilization .
femoral torsion ,  also known as femoral rotation or femoral version ,  refers to the twist between the proximal and distal parts of the femur on the transverse plane .
femoral torsion ,  also known as femoral rotation or femoral version ,  refers to the twist between the proximal and distal parts of the femur on the transverse plane .
femoral torsion ,  also known as femoral rotation or femoral version ,  refers to the twist between the proximal and distal parts of the femur on the transverse plane .
any anomaly of the structure of an organ ofthe endocrine system .
any anomaly of the function of the endocrine system .
an anomalous response to a test that is designed to probe the function of the endocrine system .
an anomolous response to stimulation by adminstration of the adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  .
an anomalous response to the insulin tolerance test  ( itt )  ,  in which insulin is administered intravenously and blood glucose and potentially other compounds are measured at intervals .
failure of cortisol levels to respond adequately  ( by increasing )  to the insulin tolerance test  ( itt )  .
an anomalous response to the corticotropin releasing hormone  ( crh )  stimulation test .
failure of cortisol levels to respond adequately  ( by increasing )  to the corticotropin releasing hormone stimulation test .
failure of growth hormone levels to respond adequately  ( by increasing )  to the insulin tolerance test  ( itt )  .
an anomalous response to the glucagon stimulation test ,  which like the insulin tolerance test  ( itt )  stimulates the release of both adrenocorticotropic hormone  ( acth )  and growth hormone  ( gh )  .
failure of cortisol levels to respond adequately  ( by increasing )  to the glucagon stimulation test .
failure of growth hormone levels to respond adequately  ( by increasing )  to the glucagon stimulation test .
an anomalous response to intravenous stimulation by human chorionic gonadotrophin .
an abnormally high increase in insulin levels following a glucagon stimulation test .
a reduced concentration of prealbumin in the blood .
undescended or ectopic ovaries are characterized by the attachment of the upper pole of the ovary to an area above the level of the common iliac vessels .
the abrupt and transient increase in the annual growth rate normally observed in adolescent individuals does not occur .
persistent vaginal dryness .
swelling related to fluid accumulation within the palate .
fingers appear swollen and plump owing to inflammation of the complete finger .
toes appear swollen and plump owing to inflammation of the complete toe .
swelling of the hand at the knuckles ,  that gives the fingers a spindle shape  ( i .e . ,  a round stick with tapered end and a broader base )  .
any anomaly of the structure of the breast .
any anomaly of the function of the breast .
any anomaly of the structure of the humerus .
a decrease in the amount of mineralized bone in one or more vertebrae compared with that expected for a given developmental age .
any deviation from the normal amount of the thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  ,  which is produced by the anterior pituitary gland and stimulates the function of the thyroid gland .
reduced amount of the thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  ,  which is produced by the anterior pituitary gland and stimulates the function of the thyroid gland .
any deviation from the normal concentration of inhibins ,  which are heterodimeric protein hormones secreted by granulosa cells of the ovary in females and sertoli cells of the testis in males .
a reduced concentration of inhibin b in the blood .
any deviation from the normal range of the antimullerian hormone ,  a peptide produced by the granulosa cells of follicles .
an elevation above the normal range of the antimullerian hormone in the circulation .
a reduction below the normal range of the antimullerian hormone in the circulation .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against the insulin receptor .
any anomaly of the structure of the uterus
an abnormality of the uterus characterized by a normal uterine outline but with an abnormal t - shaped uterine cavity with narrowing cavity due to thickened lateral walls with a correlation 2 / 3 uterine corpus and 1 / 3 cervix .
reduced width of the cross sectional diameter of the fibula .
a lack of strength in the triceps muscle ,  which normally is responsible for extending  ( straightening )  the elbow and mediating certain shoulder movements .
failure of secretion of milk following childbirth associated with an inability to breastfeed an infant .
as a result of sharing a single placenta ,  the blood supplies of monochorionic twin fetuses can become connected ,  so that they share blood circulation: although each fetus uses its own portion of the placenta ,  the connecting blood vessels within the placenta allow blood to pass from one twin to the other .depending on the number ,  type and direction of the interconnecting blood vessels  ( anastomoses )  ,  blood can be transferred disproportionately from one twin  ( the donor )  to the other  ( the recipient )  .
a hamartoma  ( tissue malformation consisting of an abnormal mixture of constitutive components )  originating in the skin .
a type of bicuspid aortic valve  ( bav )  characterized by two equal - sized cusps ,  with no raphe and only two commissures .
a type of bicuspid aortic valvue  ( bav )  characterized by the presence of a single raphe that extends from the commissure to the free edge of the two underdeveloped ,  conjoint cusps ,  resulting in two leaflets of unequal size .
a type of bicuspid aortic valve  ( bav )  characterized by a single raphe between the right and left cusps  ( rl fusion pattern )  .
a type of bicuspid aortic valve  ( bav )  characterized by a single raphe between the right and noncoronary cusps  ( rn fusion pattern )  .
a type of bicuspid aortic valve  ( bav )  characterized by a single raphe between the left and noncoronary cusps  ( ln fusion pattern )  .
a type of bicuspid aortic valvue  ( bav )  characterized by the presence of two raphes that each extend from the commissure to the free edge of the two underdeveloped ,  conjoint cusps .
increased susceptibility to gastroenteritis ,  an infectious inflammationof the stomach and small intestines manifested by signs and symptoms such as diarheas and abdominal pain ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of gastroenteritis .
decreased cell membrane concentration of thromboxane a2 receptor that is stimulated by thromboxane a2  ( tbxa2 )  .
decreased cell membrane concentration of alpha - 2a adrenergic receptor that is stimulated by epinephrine .
platelets contain contractile proteins  ( actin and myosin )  that induce clot retraction .
abnormal response to convulxin as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of convulxin .
abnormal response to collagen - related peptide  ( crp )  as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of crp .
abnormal response to phorbol myristate acetate  ( pma )  as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of pma .
abnormal response to calcium ionophore  ( such as a23187 )  as manifested by reduced or lacking aggregation of platelets upon addition of the ionophore .
an abnormality of phosphatidylserine  ( ps )  on activated platelets .
reduced binding of annexin v to platelet membrane ,  which is mediated by exposed phosphatidylserine .
elevated binding of annexin v to platelet membrane ,  which is mediated by exposed phosphatidylserine .
a developmental anomaly of the heart characterized by the presence of three atria because the left atrium is divided by an abnormal septum .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by exposure to a trauma  ( injury to tissue )  .
a reduced amount of the enzyme acrosin in the sperm head acrosome .
hepatocytes  ( liver parenchymal cells )  exhibit a bloated appearance because of expansion of the cytoplasm by accumulated material .
a deviation from the normal circulating concentration of b - type natriuretic peptide  ( bnp )  .
a type of rest posture in an infant that indicated a generalized reduction in muscle tone .
an abnormal appearance of the liver or any of its components on sonography  ( ultrasound )  .
increased echogenicity of liver tissue on sonography ,  manifested as an increased amount of white on the screen of the sonography device .
any deviation from the normal degree of echogenicity of the liver on sonography .
reduced echogenicity of liver tissue on sonography ,  manifested as an increased amount of black on the screen of the sonography device .
the appearance of the liver in sonographic images is normally uniform .
an abnormal echotexture visible in liver ultrasound manifesting as a diffuse hyperechoic liver echotexture with multiple ,  small hypoechoic lesions .
an abnormality of swallowing characterized by reduced tongue coordination to form bolus after chewing .
perifoveal vitreous separation with remaining vitreomacular attachment and unperturbed foveal morphologic features .
vitreomacular traction is characterized by anomalous posterior vitreous detachment accompanied by anatomic distortion of the fovea ,  which may include pseudocysts ,  macular schisis ,  cystoid macular edema ,  and subretinal fluid .
full - thickness macular hole  ( ftmh )  is defined as a foveal lesion with interruption of all retinal layers from the internal limiting membrane to the retinal pigment epithelium .
vitreous humor of the eye displaying consisting of a vestigial gel in the retrolental space bounded by a convoluted membrane .
vitreous humor of the eye displaying beaded bundles of irregular diameters .
an abnormal increase in the arden ratio ,  which is the ratio between the light peak and the dark trough of the smoothed  ( physiologic )  eog record .
decreased platelet cell membrane concentration of glycoprotein ib .
an abnormal connection between a carotid artery and the cavernous sinus .
an atrophic scar  ( fibrous connective tissue resulting from incomplete healing of a wound )  that has stretched  ( gotten wider )  ,  a manifestation of tissue fragility .
a reduction in the thickness of descemet's membrane .
impaired egress of mature neutrophils from bone marrow causing neutropenia .
an decrease in the level of glutamate  ( glu )  in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
delay or absence of the swallow response ,  reflexes triggered by the contact the food bolus makes with the anterior faucial pillars .
reduced bone mineral density of the femur .
growth arrest lines are alternating transverse rings of sclerosis at the metaphysis of a long bone .
seizures that start from several different areas of the brain  ( i .e . ,  with multiple ictal onset locations )  .
involuntary ,  fine ,  continuous ,  undulating contractions of the eyelid .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by eating or drinking foods rich in potassium .
a pregnancy that extends to 42 weeks of gestation or beyond .
fetal masculinization of female external genitalia .
a bony projection  ( spur ,  osteophyte )  originating from the femur ,  often in the medial femoral neck .
a variant of retinitis pigmentosa in which there is a regional distribution of the retinal degeneration .
a bony projection  ( spur ,  osteophyte )  originating from the tibia .
an anomaly of the patella characterized by two layers visible on lateral knee x - ray such that one layer is in front of the other in the sagittal orientation  ( see figure 2a and 3b of pmid:12966518 )  .
a developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies of the cervical spine .
a developmental defect characterized by agenesis of one or more vertebral bodies of the thoracic spine .
reduced ability to flex  ( bend )  the fingers .
head is bent in the posterior direction in a permanent fashion .
resistance of the extensor muscles of the neck to being bent forwards  ( i .e . ,  impaired neck flexion )  as a result of muscle spasm of the extensor muscles of the neck .
an expanding erythematous  ( red )  skin lesion ,  usually round or oval ,  by definition at least 5 cm in size  ( in largest diameter )  .
acral or periorificial lesions that evolve in recurrent crops ,  with an annular and migratory distribution .
an elevated level of circulating n - terminal part of the prohormone of b - type natriuretic peptide  ( bnp )  .
an abnormality of the concentration of deoxycorticosterone in the blood .
an abnormality of the concentration of pregnenolone in the blood .
a buildup of fluid that causes swelling in the soft tissues of the genital area .
a condition in which the affected individual cannot extend the wrist ,  which hangs flaccidly .
numerous lymphocytes surrounding blood vessels in the superfical part of the dermis .
numerous lymphocytes surrounding blood vessels in the deep part of the dermis .
any structural anomaly of the muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the left ventricle of the heart  ( cardiac trabeculae ,  trabeculae carneae )  .
any structural anomaly of the muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the right ventricle of the heart  ( cardiac trabeculae ,  trabeculae carneae )  .
an increased density  ( number and tightness )  of the muscular columns which project from the inner surface of the left ventricles of the heart  ( cardiac trabeculae ,  trabeculae carneae )  .
an increased number and density of the trabeculae in the apex  ( tip )  of the left ventricle .
reduced thickness of the outer ,  dense layer of the myocardium .
a type of urinary cast composed of cells incorporated in a protein matrix .
a type of cellular urinary cast composed of renal tubular epithelial cells .
a type of urinary cast composed of a proteinaceous matrix without a substantial number of cells .
a type of acellular urinary cast that are composed only of tamm - horsfall glycoprotein ,  a fact which explains their low refractive index .
a type of acelluar casts that have a surface composed of granules ,  which can vary in size .
a type of acellular urinary casts that display a melted wax  ( waxy )  appearance ,  which gives them a high refractive index .
a type of acellular urinary casts that contain lipid droplets ,  oval fat bodies or cholesterol crystals ,  and are often associated with the free forms of these elements .
a type of urinary cast that contain bacteria .
reduction in the activity of lysosomal acid lipase  ( lal )  in the blood .
abnormally bright t2 signal from the striatum on brain magnetic resonance imaging .
a congenital vascular malformation in the liver composed of masses of blood vessels that are atypical or irregular in arrangement and size .
an increased concentration of circulating alpha polypeptide of glycoprotein hormones  ( ncbi gene 1081 )  .
reduction in the level of lipoprotein lipase in the blood .
a deviation from the normal concentration of hyaluronic acid in the blood .
an elevated concentration of circulating cholesterol esters ,  which are fatty acid esters of cholesterol and make up about two - thirds of total plasma cholesterol .
an increased level of 17 - hydroxyprogesterone in the blood .
a reduced concentration of dehydroepiandrosterone - sulfate in the blood .
an elevated concentration of progesterone in the blood .
sudden feelings of warmth that are generally most pronounced over the face ,  neck and chest .
a state of increased circulating antidiuretic hormone despite hyponatremia and hypo - osmolality with normal or increased plasma volume .
a decreased amount of uptake on the radioactive iodine uptake  ( raiu )  test ,  which utilizes a radioisotope of iodine to measure how much iodine the thyroid gland absorbs from the blood .
an elevated amount of uptake on the radioactive iodine uptake  ( raiu )  test ,  which utilizes a radioisotope of iodine to measure how much iodine the thyroid gland absorbs from the blood .
any deviation from normal in the amount of uptake on the radioactive iodine uptake  ( raiu )  test ,  which utilizes a radioisotope of iodine to measure how much iodine the thyroid gland absorbs from the blood .
an elevated concentration of thyroxine - binding globulin  ( tbg )  in the blood .
hyperplasia of the islets of langerhans that affects only certain regions of the pancreas and not others .
hyperplasia of the islets of langerhans with a generalized distribution .
blood flow through a region of the lung in which little or no ventilation takes place ,  resulting in reduced oxygenation of the blood leaving the lungs .
an accumulation of fluid in one or more of the perinephric spaces ,  which consist of the subcapsular ,  perirenal ,  anterior and posterior pararenal spaces .
a teratoma arising in the nasopharyngeal region .
an abnormal shape of the incisura ,  defined as the narrowed downward continuation of the conchal space bounded anteriorly by the borders of the tragus ,  posteriorly by the antitragus ,  and along its lower lateral margins and inferior boundary by the connection between the first two .
the length of the incisura from the upper to lower border is greater than that observed in the average population .
the length of the incisura from the upper to lower border is less than that observed in the average population .
width of the incisura from the anterior to posterior border less than that observed in the average population .
breadth of the incisura from the anterior to posterior border greater than that observed in the average population .
a morphological abnormality of the scapula in which there is a flat  ( horizontal )  inferior edge of the scapula .
a predominantly neutrophilic infiltrate of the dermis and or epidermis  ( i .e . ,  a large number of neutrophils inferred to have migrated into the skin )  .
collection of neutrophils in the epidermis .
collection of neutrophils in the dermis .
an abnormality in which the nuclei of sarcomeres take on an abnormally internal localization  ( or in which this feature is found in an increased proportion of muscle cells )  .
a histological alteration of muscle fibers that resembles a necklace  ( necklace fibers )  .
a type of choroidal neovascularization in which the nearest edge of the area of neovascularization is located 200 to 1500 micrometers from the center of the fovea .
a type of choroidal neovascularization in which the nearest edge of the area of neovascularization is located 1 to 199 micrometers from the center of the fovea .
a type of choroidal neovascularization in which the area of neovascularization overlaps with the center of the fovea .
reduced plasma concentrations of chylomicrons ,  the large lipid droplet  ( up to 100 mm in diameter )  of reprocessed lipid synthesized in epithelial cells of the small intestine and containing triacylglycerols ,  cholesterol esters ,  and several apolipoproteins .
a reduction in the amount of very - low - density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
enlargement of the lip typically due to fluid buildup or inflammation .
a cough that produces phlegm or mucus .
a cough that does not produce phlegm or mucus .
a type of cough characterized by a burst of numerous and rapid coughs followed by a long inhaling effort that is accompanied by a high - pitched whooping sound produced by the inhalation of air .
pruritus is an itch or a sensation that makes a person want to scratch .
a distortion of the sense of taste ,  often characterized by the sensation of a metallic taste .
a severe crack in a lip .
any anomaly of a subclavian artery .
abnormally increased caliber of the left subclavian artery .
origin of the left subclavian artery from an anomalous anatomical location .
an arteriovenous malformation is a disruption of the normal vascular pattern in which arteries or arterioles connect directly to the venous collection system ,  bypassing any capillary bed .
an arteriovenous malformation is a disruption of the normal vascular pattern in which arteries or arterioles connect directly to the venous collection system ,  bypassing any capillary bed .
an arteriovenous malformation is a disruption of the normal vascular pattern in which arteries or arterioles connect directly to the venous collection system ,  bypassing any capillary bed .
an arteriovenous malformation is a disruption of the normal vascular pattern in which arteries or arterioles connect directly to the venous collection system ,  bypassing any capillary bed .
a state of sudden and severe confusion .
an inflammation of the ovary or ovaries .
a short ,  dysplastic tibia with a triangular shape .
an abnormal growth that projects from the mucous membrane of the urinary bladder .
any anomolous structure of the renal corpuscle ,  which is the initial component of the nephron that filters blood .
a structural anomaly of the double - walled capsule  ( bowman capsule )  that opens into a renal tubule .
any structural anomaly of the podocyte ,  which is a highly specialized cell of the bowman capsule and which forms multiple interdigitating foot processes .
an anomaly of podocyte morphology characterized by the loss of the interdigitating foot process pattern  ( generally called foot process effacement ;  fpe )  .
any abnormality in the upregulation of cd69 on t cells after activation via the t cell receptor  ( tcr )  .
reduced or impaired upregulation of cd69 on t cells after activation via the t cell receptor  ( tcr )  .
any abnormality in the upregulation of cd25 on t cells after activation via the t cell receptor  ( tcr )  .
decreased or impaired upregulation of cd25 on t cells after activation via the t cell receptor  ( tcr )  .
the pulsation of the posterior tibial artery behind the internal malleolus ,  or of the dorsalis pedis artery ,  cannot be detected on physical examination .
accumulation of lipids and inflammatory cells along the inner walls of the pulmonary artery .
the state in which profound and widespread reduction of effective tissue perfusion leads first to reversible ,  and then if prolonged ,  to irreversible cellular injury .
a state of shock characterized by decreased circulating blood volume in relation to total vascular capacity .
a hyperdynamic process resulting from excessive vasodilatation .
a type of shock characterized by inadequate cardiac preload due to obstructed venous return  ( e .g .
any structural anomaly of the thoracic duct .
an abnormal response to the gonadotropin - releasing hormone  ( gnrh )  stimulation test .
an abnormally high amount of luteinizing hormone  ( lh )  is released upon gonadotropin - releasing hormone stimulation test .
inflammation of a salivary gland .
a lateral deviation of the nail plate of the great toe along the longitudinal axis due to the lateral rotation of the nail matrix .
the presence of tufts of 8 - 15 hairs that appear to emerge from a single follicular orifice .
recurrent episodes of redness of the skin together with a sensation of warmth or burning of the affected areas of skin .
any structural anomaly in the areas surrounding the hair follicles .
redness surrounding the hair follicles .
a raised growth on the skin of older individuals .
the presence of verrucous ,  cobblestone - like papules and nodules in a region of skin that is said to have an appearance like that of cobblestones .
a papule with white color .
a type of xanthoma characterized by a nodular form .
ichthyosis follicularis is characterized by widespread non inflammatory thorn - like follicular projections .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the skin .
pinhole - sized concave depressions with hyperkeratosis in the skin of a finger or toe .
underdeveloped ,  small right heart atrium .
increase in size of the left atrium .
an abnormal increase in the thickness of the atrial septum .
unroofed coronary sinus  ( cs )  is a rare congenital cardiac anomaly in which there is partial  ( either focal or fenestrated )  or complete absence of the roof of the cs ,  which results in a communication between the cs and the la .
abnormal increase in size of the coronary sinus .
an abnormal increase in magnitude of the pressure in the left atrium .
a deviation from the normal concentration of properdin in the blood .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall of the leg .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall of the femoral artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall of the iliac artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall of the tibial artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in an artery that is located within the skull  ( intracranial )  .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the internal carotid artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the vertebral artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in a cerebral artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the basilar artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the middle cerebral artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in abdominal aorta .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in a carotid artery .
an accumulation of calcium and phosphate in arteries with mineral deposits in the intimal or medial layer of the vessel wall in the external carotid artery .
a structural anomaly of the muscle layer of the heart wall of a cardiac ventricle .
presence of an increased amount of fat tissue within a cardiac ventricle with corresponding reduction of muscle tissue .
a nonparallel arrangement of cardiac myocytes .
an abnormal increase in the volume of cardiac myocytes .
an abnormal increase in the number of mitochondria per cardiac myocyte .
an increase in the number of immune cells in myocardial tissue  ( which can be assumed to have migrated into the myocardium )  .
an increase in the number of lymphocytes in myocardial tissue .
an increase in the number of eosinophils in myocardial tissue .
the presence of extremely large cells with multiple nuclei .
the presence of multiple granulomata  ( small nodular inflammatory lesions containing grouped mononuclear phagocytes )  in the myocardium .
a type of cardiac amyloidosis related to deposition of an immunoglobulin light chain .
a type of cardiac amyloidosis related to deposition of transthyretin  ( ttr )  ,  which is identified by immunohistochemical staining .
a type of myocardial fibrosis characterized by excessive diffuse collagen accumulation concentrated in perivascular spaces .
a type of myocardial fibrosis characterized by excessive diffuse collagen accumulation concentrated in interstitial spaces .
an increase in the number of immune cells in myocardial tissue concentrated in the spaces surrounding blood vessels .
any structural anomaly of cardiomyocytes ,  which are terminally differentiated muscle cells in the heart that are interconnected end to end by gap junctions ,  which allows coordinated contraction of heart tissue .
deterioration of cardiomyocyte characterized by abnormal features such as loss of myofilaments ,  occurrence of cellular sequestration ,  decreased mitochondrial sizes and cellular debris .
a disruption of the structure of the sarcomeres of cardiomyocytes .
nuclear or cytoplasmic aggregates of stainable substances within cardiomyocytes .
an anomaly of the structure of mitochondria within cardiomyocytes .
abnormal localization of mitochondria within the nuclei of cardiomyocytes .
anomalous staining of connexin43 in cardiomyocytes .
anomalous staining of plakoglobin in cardiomyocytes .
anomalous staining of dystrophin in cardiomyocytes .
a structural anomaly of lysosomes ,  membrane - enclosed organelles that contain an array of enzymes capable of catabolizing proteins ,  nucleic acids ,  carbohydrates ,  and lipids .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the stomach .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the duodenum .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the jejunum .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the pelvis .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the colon .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the rectum .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries and that is located in the uterus .
a type of transposition of the great arteries  ( tga )  in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the right of the pulmonary artery .
a type of transposition of the great arteries  ( tga )  in which aorta is in front of and primarily to the left of the pulmonary artery .
a malignant soft tissue neoplasm that arises from the heart .
a non - neoplastic cardiac tumor characterized by calcification and eosinophilic amorphous material in the background of dense collagenous fibrous tissue .
an unpleasant sensation of tightness or pressure in the chest .
otitis media characterized by thick or sticky fluid behind the tympanic membrane .
difficulty initiating sleep ,  that is ,  increased sleep onset latency .
abnormal difficulty in staying asleep .
a type of insomnia characterized by waking up  ( too )  early in the morning .
a histologically distinctive ,  cutaneous ,  benign vascular tumor that is characterized by a solitary or multiple blue - red papules and histologically resembles renal glomeruli .
absence of wakefulness and conscience ,  but  ( in contrast to coma )  with involuntary opening of the eyes and movements  ( such as teeth grinding ,  yawning ,  or thrashing of the extremities )  .
a solid ,  raised ,  plateau - like  ( flat - topped )  lesion greater than 1 cm in diameter that is characterized by hardening  ( sclerosis )  of the affected skin area  ( related to collagen thickening )  .
a solid ,  raised ,  plateau - like  ( flat - topped )  lesion greater than 1 cm in diameter and that has a yellow color .
intralysosomal ,  osmiophilic ,  lamellated and sometimes concentric cytoplasmic inclusions comprised of broad transversely - stacked myelinoid membranes and said to resemble a zebra in electron microscopic images .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on one of the autosomes  ( i .e . ,  the human chromosomes 1 - 22 )  in which a trait manifests in homozygotes in a sex - specific manner  ( i .e .
a type of purpura in which the lesions are raised  ( and can therefore be appreciated upon palpation )  .
a purpuric lesion that is larger than 1 cm in diameter .
purpura that is flat  ( non - palpable ,  not raised )  .
a neoplasm that affects the hard palate ,  soft palate ,  or uvula .
longitudinal densities on radiographs located in a metaphysis  ( the narrow region of a long bone between the epiphysis and the diaphysis )  .
a hole  ( perforation )  in the wall of the intestine .
a hole  ( perforation )  in the wall of the colon .
a hole  ( perforation )  in the wall of the small intestine .
a hole  ( perforation )  in the wall of the rectum .
increased muscle weakness upon exposure to cold temperatures .
increased rigidity and reduced mobility of the tongue .
reduced strength of the muscles that lift or otherwise move the foot at the ankle .
applies to a sign or symptom that is difficult to treat or cure .
any abnormality in the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  which may result in the expansion of a cell population .
any abnormality in the multiplication or reproduction of lymphocytes ,  which results in the expansion of a cell population .
any abnormality in the multiplication or reproduction of t cells ,  which results in the expansion of a cell population .
any abnormality in the multiplication or reproduction of b cells ,  which results in the expansion of a cell population .
a decreased proliferative response of lymphocytes in vitro or in vivo ,  when stimulated with mitogens ,  such as phytohemagglutinin  ( pha )  .
a decreased proliferative response of lymphocytes in vitro or in vivo ,  when stimulated with an anti - cd3 antibody against the t - cell co - receptor ,  cd3 .
abnormal amount of a protein that is normally present on the cell surface of lymphocytes .
a deficiency in the expression of the cd40 ligand on the surface of activated t - lymphocytes .
the presence of megakaryocytes in the bone marrow whose nuclei are less lobulated than expected for the size of the nucleus .
the presence of abnormally high numbers of micromegakaryocytes in the bone marrow .
the presence of abnormally high numbers of multinucleated megakaryocytes in the bone marrow .
the presence of megakaryocytes in the bone marrow whose nuclei are more lobulated than expected for the size of the nucleus .
a deviation from the normal level of major histocompatibility complex class ii molecules expressed at the cell surface .
a reduction from the normal level of major histocompatibility complex class ii molecules expressed at the cell surface .
an increase above the normal level of major histocompatibility complex class ii molecules expressed at the cell surface .
any abnormality in the proportion of cd4 - positive t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
any abnormality in the proportion of cd8 t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
any abnormality in the relative amount of cd4 +  and cd8 +  t lymphocytes .
any abnormality in the proportion of naive t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an abnormally decreased proportion of naive t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an abnormally increased proportion of naive t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an abnormal proportion of cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative  ( double negative or dn )  alpha - beta regulatory t cells  ( tregs )  as compared to total number of t cells .
an abnormally decreased proportion of cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative  ( double negative or dn )  alpha - beta regulatory t cells  ( tregs )  as compared to total number of t cells .
impaired proliferation and expansion of a t cell population following activation by an antigenic stimulus .
impaired response of cd8 t cells to pathogens .
an impaired immune response mediated by cells expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for an enhanced secondary response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
a benign ,  well circumscribed sweat gland neoplasm with eccrine or apocrine differentiation .
any abnormality in the series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a cytokine to a receptor on the surface of a cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
a defect or impairment in the series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a cytokine to a receptor on the surface of a cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
an increased proportion of mast cells are positive for the cell surface marker cd25  ( also called interleukin - 2 receptor alpha chain )  .
any anomaly of lymphocyte function .
an abnormal distribution in the number of cd56 bright nk cells ,  as measured by flow cytometry .
any structural anomaly of a chromosome ,  which is a thread like molecule consisting of dna and proteins  ( chromatin )  that contains dna sequences for genes and other genetic elements in linear order .
an abnormal reduction in telomere length .
an increased concentration of calcifediol in the blood .
an increased concentration of calcitriol in the blood .
any deviation from the normal quantity of secretion of nasal mucus ,  a thick viscous liquid produced by the mucous membranes of the nose .
increased discharge of mucus from the nose .
abnormally increased weight - to - height squared ratio ,  calculated by dividing the individual's weight in kilograms by the square of the individual's height in meters and used as an indicator of overweight compared to averages .
a decreased concentration of sex - hormone binding protein in the circulation .
a lesion that is observed following light damage to the macula .
reduced size of the superior frontal portion of the cerebral cortex .
any structural anomaly of the cortex of the cerebellum .
reduced size of the cerebellar cortex .
a deviation from the normal concentration of beta - c - terminal telopeptide of type i collagen in the blood circulation ,  a marker of the rate of bone turnover .
a abnormal elevation above the normal concentration of beta - c - terminal telopeptide of type i collagen in the blood circulation .
a reduction from the normal concentration of beta - c - terminal telopeptide of type i collagen in the blood circulation .
a deviation from the normal concentration of osteocalcin in the blood circulation .
an elevated level of osteocalcin in the blood .
a reduced level of osteocalcin in the blood .
the presence of a population of t cells with a restricted t cell receptor  ( tcr )  repertoire derived from a limited number of tcr clones .
repetitive use of words ,  phrases ,  intonation ,  or sounds of speech ,  often of the speech of others .
repeated and inappropriate mechanical repetition of actions .
a deficit in emotional awareness characterized by difficulties in recognizing and expressing feelings and emotions manifested as a limited ability to respond to facial clues or other signs of emotions in others often accompanied by detached connections to others .
an anomaly of the expressive patterns of speech that involve intonation ,  stress pattern ,  loudness variations ,  pausing ,  articulatory force ,  and rhythm .
a speech pattern characterized by abnormally reduced or lacking variability of the pitch of the voice .
a speech pattern characterized by abnormally elevated variability of the pitch of the voice .
exposure of pregnant women to toxins from any source ,  such as environmental toxins or chemicals ,  that may potentially cause problems such as miscarriage ,  preterm delivery ,  low birth weight ,  and ,  in some cases ,  developmental delays in infants .
a deviation from the normal concentration in the circulation of sex hormone - binding globulin ,  a circulating glycoprotein that transports testosterone and other steroids in the blood .
a deviation from the normal concentration in the circulation of angiostatin ,  an endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor ,  which blocks the growth of new blood vessels .
any structural anomaly of the annulus of the tricuspid valve .
any structural anomaly of the chordae tendinae of the tricuspid valve .
any structural anomaly of the leaflets  ( also known as cusps )  of the tricuspid valve .
an increase in the diameter of the ring  ( annulus )  of the tricuspid valve .
a palpable ,  solid lesion greater than 5mm in diameter .
loss of the superficial layer of the oral mucosa usually resulting in a shallow or crusted lesion .
multiple pigmented macules located on the skin of the penis .
multiple vesicles distributed in multiple distinct groups consisting of multiple adjacent vesicles .
hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  located in the perineal region ,  i .e . ,  the region between the anus and the genitals .
a distribution of skin lesions resembling multiple merged circles .
an abnormal increase in the amount of subcutaneous fat in the legs .
mutliple skin lesions resembling those characteristic of the disease lichen planus .
mutliple lesions of the oral mucosa resembling those characteristic of the disease lichen planus .
a cystic lesions that forms a benign tumor of an apocrine sweat gland .
a gangioleneuroma originating from sympathetic ganglion cells in the abdomen .
a pregnancy in which the fertilized egg inserts in a location outside of the main cavity of the uterus  ( usually in the fallopian tube )  .
any lesion observed on an imaging study of the lung that is associated with increased density  ( usually showing as increased whiteness in the image )  .
an inflammation of the adenoid tissue .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  that arises from the soft tissue .
a benign mesenchymal neoplasm arising from smooth ,  skeletal ,  or cardiac muscle tissue  [ ncit:c4882 ]  .
a benign tumor that is usually solitary ,  painless ,  palpable mass that is firm in consistency and slightly movable and often fluctuant .
abnormal reduction in length of a tendon which tends to pull  ( retract )  the attached muscle tissue with shortening of the muscle fibers often accompanied by atrophy and fatty degeneration of the affected muscle tissue .
a rare benign epithelial tumor that is usually asymptomatic but can present with pyrosis and epigastric discomfort with or without dysphagia .
the presence of one or more bullae on the skin of the genital region ,  defined as fluid - filled blisters more than 5 mm in diameter with thin walls .
a structural anomaly of vasa vasorum ,  which are defined as small blood vessels that supply or drain the walls of larger arteries and veins ,  delivering nutrients and oxygen as well as removing systemic waste products .
a maladaptive personality trait characterized by moderate or greater impairment in personality  ( self  / interpersonal )  functioning .
a stable tendency to experience negative emotions ,  i .e . ,  a disposition to experience aversive emotional states .
fears of rejection by and / or separation from significant others ,  associated with fears of excessive dependency and complete loss of autonomy .
negative opinion about oneself characterized by low self - confidence and exaggeratedly critical feelings about oneself .
engagement in dangerous ,  risky ,  and potentially self - damaging activities ,  unnecessarily and without regard to consequences ;  lack of concern for one's limitations and denial of the reality of personal danger .
persistent or frequent angry feelings ;  anger or irritability in response to minor slights and insults .
a benign cartilaginous tumors of the lung .
there is inconclusive evidence to precisely define the duration of the seizure ;  however ,  based on current evidence an operational threshold of 10 minutes is appropriate as beyond this a seizure is likely to be more prolonged .
any structural anomaly of the cells of the mucosa of the oral cavity in the region of the cheek  ( buccal mucosa cells )  .
any structural anomaly of the annulus of the mitral valve .
an increase in the diameter of the ring  ( annulus )  of the mitral valve .
any structural anomaly of the leaflets  ( also known as cusps )  of the mitral valve .
any functional anomaly of the mitral valve .
a wall motion abnormality observed upon left ventricular contraction that affects a specific region of the left ventricle .
reduced wall motion  ( contraction )  of the apex of the left ventricle .
a form of hemolytic anemia that can be triggered by cold temperatures .
the formation of new bone along the cortex and underneath the periosteum of a bone .
an anomaly of blood vessels located in the lip .
a vascular malformation located in the lip that is characterized by \ nectatic papillary dermal capillaries and postcapillary venules in the upper reticular dermis .
a vascular malformation located in the lip that is characterized by direct blood shunting from an artery to a vein due to the absence of a capillary bed .
a vascular malformation located in the lip that is related to abnormal vascular morphogenesis .
a vascular malformation located in the lip that is related to vascular endothelial cell hyperplasia .
diffuse ,  bilateral and recently also unilateral or focal localization spike - wave occurring in slow sleep or non - rapid eye movement sleep .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from and is composed of epithelial cells .
a tumor that arises from a gland cell .
ovarian mucinous neoplasms consist of borderline tumors  ( tumors of low malignant potential ,  or lmp tumors )  ,  intraepithelial  ( non - invasive )  carcinoma ,  and invasive carcinoma .
mucin - producing and septated cyst - forming epithelial neoplasia of the pancreas with a distinctive ovarian - type stroma .
a subtype of colorectal carcinoma with mucin lakes .
a poorly differentiated type of gastric carcinoma with a substantial amount of extracellular mucus  ( over 50% of tumor volume )  within the tumor .
an epithelial neoplasm originating in the appendix and often associated with cystic dilation of the appendix due to accumulation of gelatinous material ,  morphologically referred to as mucoceles .
an abnormal enlargement or swelling in the abdomen .
an abnormal enlargement or swelling in the pelvic region .
a gestational or non - gestational neoplasm composed of neoplastic trophoblastic cells  [ ncit:c3422 ]  .
waking up at night gasping for breath .
urine has an increased amount of frothy fine bubbles .
a deviation from the normal concentration of thyroxine in the blood .
an elevation above the normal concentration of thyroxine in the blood .
a reduction below the normal concentration of thyroxine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal range of the hormones produced by the thyroid gland .
a transverse linear fissure  ( crease )  in the lobule of the ear .
diagonal earlobe creases run from the lower pole of the external meatus ,  diagonally backwards to the edge of the lobe at approximately 45 degrees .
fusiform collagen fibers with abnormally long spacing  ( exceeding 100 nm )  between electron - dense bands .
an abnormally elevated proportion of exhausted t cells  ( tex )  among circulating t cells .
any anomaly of meiosis ,  a type of cell division that reduces the number of chromosomes in the parent cell by half and produces four gamete cells .
failure of oocytes to proceed through the stages of meiosis with stoppage at the first metaphase stage .
a papillary or cauliflower - like growth characterized by the presence of foamy histiocytes within the elongated dermal papillae forms .
lack of normal alpha rhythm in the eeg .
an anomaly of collagen fibers of the skin that is said to resemble a cauliflower and can be appreciated by electron microscopy .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the groin region .
a type of adenocarcinoma originating in the vagina and characterized by large cells with moderate to abundant clear cytoplasm .
a type of adenocarcinoma originating in the cervix and characterized by large cells with moderate to abundant clear cytoplasm .
a benign epithelial neoplasm composed of layers of oncocytes  ( small round nucleus ,  micro - granular ,  eosinophilic cytoplasm with numerous tightly - packed mitochondria ) 
a carcinoma originating in the ampulla of vater  ( also known as the hepatopancreatic duct )  ,  which is formed by the union of the pancreatic duct and the common bile duct .
keratoacanthoma  ( ka )  is a common benign epithelial tumour that originates from the pilosebaceous glands .
edema / fluid accumulating between the retinal pigment epithelium and bruch's membrane .
edema / fluid accumulating within the retinal layers .
deposits accumulating between the outer retina and the retinal pigment epithelium .
deposits accumulating between the outer retina and the retinal pigment epithelium and that have a focal distribution .
deposits accumulating between the outer retina and the retinal pigment epithelium and that are distributed with multiple foci .
deposits accumulating between the retinal pigment epithelium and bruch's membrane .
deposits accumulating between the retinal pigment epithelium and bruch's membrane and that are distributed in a single focus .
deposits accumulating between the retinal pigment epithelium and bruch's membrane and that are distributed in multiple foci .
an abnormally increased ability to bend  ( dorsiflex )  one's fifth finger .
increased frequency of theta wave activity in the electroencephalogram .
anomalous coronary origin whereby the left anterior descending  ( lad )  and the left circumflex artery  ( lcx )  arise separately .
an abnormal origin of the left circumflex artery  ( lcx )  from the right coronary artery .
any anomaly of the structure of the acellular zone that is between the dermis and the epidermis and which functions to bind the epidermis to the dermis and to serve as a selective barrier allowing the control of molecular and cellular exchanges between the two compartments .
presence of iga antibodies in the dermoepidermal junction that are distributed in a linear pattern .
presence of igg antibodies in the dermoepidermal junction that are distributed in a linear pattern .
presence of complement c3 in the dermoepidermal junction that are distributed in a linear pattern .
muscle fibers contain one or more vacuoles  ( membrane - bound cavity )  associated with collections of membranes arranged in a whorl - like  ( spiral or circular )  manner .
an elevated level of propionylcarnitine in the circulation .
reduced level of t cell receptor excision circle  ( trecs )  as measured by the trec assay .
any anomaly of the progression of electrical impulses through the heart .
any anomaly of the time interval between the start of the q wave and the end of the t wave as measured by the electrocardiogram  ( ekg )  .
a cutaneous adnexal neoplasm with variable clinical presentation .
lymphocytoma cutis ,  or spiegler - fendt sarcoid ,  is classed as one of the pseudolymphomas ,  referring to inflammatory disorders in which the accumulation of lymphocytes on the skin resemble ,  clinically and histopathologically ,  cutaneous lymphomas .
any abnormal result of flow cytometry ,  a method that suspends cells in a stream of fluid and passes them through an electronic detection apparatus in order to assess cell count or measure biomarkers or surface molecules .
reduced level of a protein that is normally present on the cell surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
reduced level of a protein that is normally present on the fibroblast surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
reduced level of a protein that is normally present on the granulocyte surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
reduced level of cd55 on the granulocyte surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
reduced level of cd59 on the granulocyte surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
reduced level of cd16 on the granulocyte surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
reduced level of cd55 on the fibroblast surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
reduced level of cd59 on the fibroblast surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
reduced level of cd16 on the fibroblast surface as assessed by flow cytometry .
an abnormal communication between coronary artery and a cardiac chamber .
an abnormal communication between the terminus of a coronary artery ,  bypassing the myocardial capillary bed and entering the right ventricle .
a type of double aortic arch in which the two branches are of equal size .
an abnormal communication between the terminus of a coronary artery ,  bypassing the myocardial capillary bed and entering any segment of the systemic or pulmonary circulation .
an anomalous mirror - imaged arrangement of some bronchial structures .
an abnormality in which the abdominal organs are positioned in such a way with respect to each other and the left - right axis as to be not clearly lateralised and thus have neither the usual ,  or normal  ( situs solitus )  ,  nor the mirror - imaged  ( situs inversus )  arrangements .
any structural anomaly of the pulmonary valve leaflets .
any structural anomaly of the aortic valve leaflets .
an abnormally increased thickness of a leaflet of the aortic valve .
a developmental defect characterized by the lack of aortic valve cusps  ( leaflets )  .
a number 0 tessier cleft is a true median cleft lip with a broad columella and bifid nasal tip .
a type of facial cleft located near to but not directly on the midline of the face .
as seen in a typical cleft lip ,  a cleft of the lip is found in the region of the cupid's bow .
as is typically seen in isolated cleft cases ,  a cleft of the lip is present .
a facial cleft characterized by involvement of the orbit .
as in the number 1 and number 2 clefts ,  this cleft extends through the lip in the region of the typical cleft lip ;  however ,  it does not extend through the base .
the cleft lip is midway between the philtral ridge and the commissure of the mouth .
the cleft of the lip is just medial to the oral commissure and extends across the cheek as a furrow .
a facial cleft extending from the zygomatic arch to the eye .
the temporozygomatic number 7 cleft is found in both treacher collins syndrome and hemifacial microsomia .
the frontozygomatic or number 8 cleft is found in both treacher collins syndrome and the goldenhar variant of hemifacial microsomia .
this is an upper lateral orbital cleft .
in a number 10 tessier cleft there is an upper central orbital cleft with a cleft of the middle one - third of the upper eyelid ,  which often results in total ablepharia .
an upper medial orbital cleft produces a cleft of the medial one - third of the upper eyelid that extends through the eyebrow into the frontal hairline .
there is a soft tissue cleft medial to the inner canthus with a cleft of the root of the eyebrow .
there is a paramedian frontal encephalocele and a soft tissue cleft that passes medial to an intact eyebrow .
this midline cranial cleft usually occurs with a midline facial cleft that completes a median craniofacial dysraphia .
a lower midline facial cleft ,  also known as the median mandibular cleft .
a conspicuously unhappy disposition characterized by negative assumptions ,  self - defeating talk ,  fear of failure ,  and negative ruminations about past events .
frequent thinking about or preoccupation with killing onself .
eye strain ,  i .e . ,  a feeling of fatigue or discomfort of the eyes related to 'overuse' of the eyes in activities such as reading or working at the computer and often accompanied by lacrimation or headache .
an abnormally large eustachian valve  ( postnatally )  .
situs inversus of thoracic and abdominal viscera with the heart remaining normally situated on the left ;  usually associated with congenital cardiac abnormalities such as transposition of the great vessels and / or spleen defects including asplenia or polysplenia .
an anomaly of the pr interval ,  which is the portion of the ecg from the onset of the p wave to the beginning of the qrs complex .
a reduction in voltage of the pr segment below baseline .
any anomaly of the p wave of the ekg ,  which results from atrial depolarization .
an anomaly of the pr segment ,  which begins at the endpoint of the p wave and ends at the onset of the qrs complex .
an increase in voltage of the pr segment above baseline .
v - shaped cut  ( notch )  in the middle of the p wave .
a broad  ( 120 ms or longer in duration )  and bifid p - wave in ekg lead ii .
p wave below instead of above the baseline .
the presence of tall ,  peaked p waves in ekg lead ii .
an anomaly in the system of mucociliary transport ,  which functions to transport the mucous layer lining the respiratory epithelium by ciliary  \ nbeating .
an abnormally increased amount of time required to clear mucus  ( and substances contained in the mucus )  from the nasal mucosa .
a developmental defect characterized by the lack of formation of the carotid canal ,  which normally is a circular aperture in the temporal bone of the skull through which the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus of nerves traverse .
any anomaly of the pigmentation of the fundus ,  the posterior part of the eye including the retina and optic nerve .
fluffy white patch on the retina ,  representing localized areas of dense white swelling of the retinal nerve fibre layer .
weakness in the supporting structures of the pelvic floor allowing the pelvic viscera to descend or one or more of the pelvic organs drop from their normal position .
sharply demarcated area of partial or complete depigmentation of the fundus reflecting atrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium with associated retinal photoreceptor loss .
shoulder dislocation occurring repeated times .
a type of intraretinal hemorrhage that is located in the superficial retina between the inner limiting membrane and the retinal nerve fiber layer .
absence of a region of the retina ,  retinal pigment epithelium ,  and choroid at the lower part of the fundus .
a notch or cleft of the lower part of the retina .
presence of pus  ( appears as a white fluid )  producing a fluid level in the inferior part of the anterior chamber .
an abnormal appearance of the beam of light traveling through the anterior chamber of the eye in a slit lamp examination .
faint anterior chamber flare .
moderate anterior chamber flare  ( iris and lens details clear )  .
marked anterior chamber flare  ( iris and lens details hazy )  .
intense anterior chamber flare  ( fibrin / plastic aqueous )  .
an ocular motility defect where the affected eye ( s )  does not elevate in adduction but has full depression in adduction .
drooping of the upper eyebrow below the superior orbital rim .
a moderate form of myopia with refractive error of between  - 3 .00 and  - 6 .00 diopters .
absence of the normal opening of a coronary ostium .
pathological deposition of calcium salts in the globus pallidus .
cardiac arrest that would have led to rapid and unexpected death had an intervention not taken place to prevent it .
reduced ability to walk in a straight line while placing the feet heel to toe .
any structural anomaly located between the pleura and the chest wall .
so - called honeycombs  ( variably sized cysts in a background of densely scarred tissue )  located in the subpleural space .
abnormal origin of the right subclavian artery from the descending aorta .
the loss of continuity between the left subclavian artery and the aorta ,  with persistent connection to the homolateral pulmonary artery through the patent  ( pda )  or nonpatent ductus arteriosus .
the left common carotid artery normally originates from the aortic arch .
the left common carotid artery normally originates from the aortic arch .
the right common carotid artery normally originates from the brachiocephalic artery .
absence of the normal opening of the coronary ostium from which the right main coronary artery originates .
the left anterior descending artery  ( lad )  branches off from the pulmonary artery .
the left main coronary artery  ( lmca )  is absent and the left anterior descending  ( lad )  and left circumflex  ( lcx )  arteries arise from separate but adjacent ostia in the left sinus of valsava .
any structural anomaly of the radial artery .
an eccentric abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the ascending tubular aorta that involves only a portion of the circumference of the vessel wall .
a concentric abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the abdominal aorta that involves the full circumference of the vessel wall
an eccentric abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the abdominal aorta that involves only a portion of the circumference of the vessel wall .
a concentric abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the aortic arch that involves the full circumference of the vessel wall .
an eccentric abnormal localized widening  ( dilatation )  of the aortic arch that involves only a portion of the circumference of the vessel wall .
a focal defect in the elastic lamina of the aortic wall that leads to localized medial disruption and potential rupture .
tearing of the aortic wall generally associated with profuse internal bleeding .
any functional defect of the mitral or tricuspid valve .
any functional defect of the tricuspid valve .
any functional abnormality of a cardiac valve .
any functional anomaly of the pumonary valve .
the presence of an aortic valve with four instead of the normal three cusps  ( flaps )  .
systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve  ( sam )  is a paradoxical motion of the anterior ,  and occasionally posterior ,  mitral valve leaflet towards the left ventricular outflow tract  ( lvot )  during systole .
any abnormal noise generated by the beating heart .
the third heart sound  ( s3 )  is related to rapid filling in diastole .
the fourth heart sound  ( s4 )  is a low - pitched sound that occurs just before the first heart sound  ( s1 )  when the atria contract to force blood into the left ventricle ,  that is ,  coincident with late diastolic filling of the ventricle due to atrial contraction .
abnormally increased volume of the first heart sound .
any anomaly of the second heart sound  ( s2 )  ,  which is produced by aortic  ( a2 )  and pulmonic  ( p2 )  valve closure .
lack of variation in the splitting between the two components of the second heart sound with respiration .
normally ,  the aortic valve closure  ( a2 )  is followed by the pulmonic valve closure  ( p2 )  but the a2 - p2 interval increases with inspiration and decreases with expiration .
a heart murmur limited to systole ,  i .e . ,  between the first and second heart sounds s1 and s2 .
a systolic murmur that begins after s1 and ends before s2 ,  typically with a crescendo - decrescendo pattern .
a murmur that occurs in the latter phase of systole .
a heart murmur that occurs during the entire systolic phase from s1 to s2 .
a heart murmur that occurs during diastole ,  i .e . ,  in the time between s2 and the subsequent s1 .
a murmur that occurs in the middle of the diastolic phase .
a murmur that occurs in both systole and diastole .
typical atrial flutter is an organised atrial tachycardia .
a type of atrial flutter associated with rounded or bimodal positive deflections in inferior leads ii ,  iii and avf ,  and a very characteristic bimodal negative wave in the shape of a w is seen in lead v1 .
a type of atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia  ( avrt )  where the atrioventricular node is used for anterograde conduction and the accessory pathway for retrograde conduction .
a type of atrioventricular reentrant tachycardia  ( avrt )  where the accessory pathway is used for anterograde conduction and the atrioventricular node for retrograde conduction .
a ventricular tachycardia  ( vt )  characterized by right bundle branch block  ( rbbb )  and left axis deviation  ( lad )  on electrocardiogram  ( ecg )  .
a type of ventricular tachycardia that is characterized by uniform qrs complexes within each lead  ( i .e . ,  each qrs is identical or nearly so )  .
a type of ventricular tachycardia that is characterized by variable qrs complexes within each lead  ( i .e . ,  qrs complexes may be different from beat to beat )  .
a lesion associated with atherosclerosis ,  a multifactorial and multipart progressive disease manifested by the focal development within the arterial wall of lesions ,  that ranges from teh development of a fatty streak ,  plaque progression ,  and plaque disruption .
type i lesions represent the very initial changes and are recognized as an increase in the number of intimal macrophages and the appearance of macrophages filled with lipid droplets  ( foam cells )  .
type ii atherosclerotic lesions include the fatty streak lesion ,  the first grossly visible lesion ,  and are characterized by layers of macrophage foam cells and lipid droplets within intimal smooth muscle cells and minimal coarse - grained particles and heterogeneous droplets of extracellular lipid .
type iii  ( intermediate )  atherosclerotic lesions are the morphological and chemical bridge between type ii and advanced lesions .
type v lesions are defined as lesions in which prominent new fibrous connective tissue has formed .
type vi atherosclerotic lesions generally have the underlying morphology of type iv or v lesions ,  surface disruptions ,  hematoma ,  and thrombosis may be  ( although less often )  superimposed on any other type of lesion and even on intima without an apparent lesion .
an atherosclerotic lesion located in the renal artery .
an abnormally elevated amount of alpha1 - antitrypsin in the feces .
dysplasia in the erythroid lineage ,  which presents with a variety of morphological changes in the bone marrow ,  including nuclear budding or irregular nuclear contour in erythroblasts .
the presence of micro - megakaryocytes ,  hypo - lobed ,  or non - lobed nuclei in megakaryocytes of all sizes and multiple ,  widely - separated nuclei .
an infection that is caused by a pathogen that would generally not be able to cause an infection in a host with a normal immune system .
an unusually severe viral infection .
an unusually severe infection by cytomegalovirus .
an unusually severe epstein barr virus  ( ebv )  infection .
an unusually severe adenovirus infection .
an unusually severe infection by a parainfluenza virus .
a viral infection that fails to be contained by the immune sytem and spreads throughout the body .
a dissemination viral infection caused by a live attenuated vaccine virus .
failure to contain thebacillus calmette - guerin  ( bcg )  following vaccination leading to spread of bcg to many sites in the body .
failure to contain infection by a protozoan of the genus cryptosporidium ,  leading to spread to many parts of the body .
a parasitic infection whereby the parasite invades  ( migrates through )  tissues of the infected host .
the presence of inflammatory cells in the aqueous humor of the anterior chamber of the eye .
the presence of erythrocyte in the aqueous humor of the anterior chamber of the eye .
any structural anomaly of the ear .
any functional anomaly of the ear .
a compensatory head posture occurs when the head is deviated out of the normal primary straight head position in order to compensate for an ocular problem .
a tendency to hold the chin depressed  ( lowered )  to compensate for a limitation of eye movement .
a tendency to turn the face to the right to compensate for a limitation of eye movement .
a tendency to turn the face to the left to compensate for a limitation of eye movement .
a tendency to tilt the head towards the right shoulder to compensate for a limitation of eye movement .
a tendency to tilt the head towards the left shoulder to compensate for a limitation of eye movement .
an abdominal aortic aneurysm that is not symmetric around its axis  ( not axisymmetric )  .
a form of divergent strabismus  ( exotropia )  in which the eye turns outward at all distances and at all times .
a type of divergent strabismus  ( exotropia )  in which an eye tends to turn outwards  ( i .e . ,  the eye squints )  mainly when looking at distant objects .
an intermittent exotropia where there is binocular single vision on distance fixation and exotropia at near  ( intermittent or constant )  .
a type of exotropia  ( divergent strabismus )  in which binocular single vision alternates with large angle exotropia in rhythmic cycle .
a type of exotropia in which either eye may be used for fixation .
exotropia in an individual who has previously had esotropia or esophoria .
exotropia  ( intermittent or constant )  on distance fixation with binocular single vision on near fixation under all testing conditions .
exotropia  ( intermittent or constant )  worse for distance fixation in which the near angle of deviation increases  ( or near exophoria becomes exotropia )  with:  ( 1 )  prolonged disruption of fusion and / or  ( 2 )  elimination of accommodation .
a type of divergent strabismus  ( exotropia )  that develops in a poorly seeing eye .
an intermittent esotropia where there is binocular single vision on distance fixation and esotropia at near even when the accommodation is relieved .
convergent squint which follows loss or impairment of vision .
a small angle heterotropia  ( usually of 10 diopters or less )  in which a form of binocular single vision occurs .
a form of latent strabismus  ( heterophoria )  in which ,  on dissociation ,  the occluded eye deviates downwards .
a type of cyclotropia  ( torsion of one or both eye around the visual axis of the eyes )  in which the upper poles of the globes are rotated inward  ( medially )  to each other .
a type of cyclotropia  ( torsion of one or both eye around the visual axis of the eyes )  in which the upper poles of the globes are rotated outward  ( laterally )  to each other .
a form of hypermetropia with not more than  + 2 .00 diopters .
a form of hypermetropia with more than  + 2 .00 diopters but not more than  + 5 .00 diopters .
a form of myopia related to an axial length above the norm and too long for the refractive power of the whole optical system of the eye .
increased lacrimation owing to overproduction of tears .
a form of watery eye associated with overproduction of tears due to an increased parasympathetic drive to the secretory component of the lacrimal system  ( lacrimal gland )  ;  this could be due to pro - secretory drug use  ( e .g .
a form of watery eye associated with overproduction of tears due to reflex tearing in response to a local irritant  ( e .g .
a form of watery eye associated with abnormal lid tone and / or lid position .
an abnormal inversion of the eyelid towards the globe resulting from inferior retractor muscle dysfunction with tissue laxity and ,  possibly ,  overriding of the preseptal orbicularis muscle over the pretarsal orbicularis muscle .
abnormal inversion  ( turning inward )  of the eyelid towards the globe associated with scarring that vertically shortens the posterior lamella of the eyelid .
a type of entropion  ( abnormal inversion of the eyelid towards the globe )  that is related to a mass effect of a lesion  ( e .g . ,  a tumor )  that pulls the eyelid margin away from the globe .
a functional anomaly of the inferior or superior oblique muscle .
a functional anomaly of the medial rectus muscle or lateral rectus muscle .
reduced ocular movement by the inferior oblique muscle which improves on testing ductions ,  typically associated with neurogenic palsy .
reduced movement by the inferior rectus muscle which improves on testing ductions ,  typically associated with neurogenic palsy .
excessive action of the inferior rectus muscle caused by increased innervation typically as a consequence of palsy or limitation to the ipsilateral antagonist or contralateral synergist .
decreased strength of the superior rectus muscle .
excessive action of the superior rectus muscle caused by increased innervation typically as a consequence of palsy or limitation to the ipsilateral antagonist or contralateral synergist .
mechanical limitation of the range of movement of the superior rectus muscle .
reduced movement of the superior rectus muscle which improves on testing ductions ,  typically associated with neurogenic palsy .
a functional anomaly of the superior or inferior rectus muscle .
a functional anomaly of the lateral rectus muscle .
decreased strength  ( ability to move )  of the lateral rectus muscle .
reduced movement of the lateral rectus muscle which improves on testing ductions ,  typically associated with neurogenic palsy .
excessive action of the lateral rectus muscle caused by increased innervation typically as a consequence of palsy or limitation to the ipsilateral antagonist or contralateral synergist .
decreased strength of the medial rectus muscle .
excessive action of the medial rectus muscle caused by increased innervation typically as a consequence of palsy or limitation to the ipsilateral antagonist or contralateral synergist .
a functional anomaly of a vertical or horizontal rectus muscle .
reduced movement of the medial rectus muscle which improves on testing ductions ,  typically associated with neurogenic palsy .
mechanical limitation of the range of movement of the medial rectus muscle .
mechanical limitation of the range of movement of the lateral rectus muscle .
a form of convergent strabismus  ( esotropia )  in which the deviation is present under all conditions  ( ie at all distances and at all times )  .
a form of esotropia in which the angle of deviation is not affected by accommodative effort .
constant esotropia occurring before 6 months of age .
an intermittent esotropia where binocular single vision is present on near fixation and an esotropia on distance fixation .
convergent strabismus in which normal binocular single vision is alternating with large angle esotropia in rhythmic cycle .
esotropia in which normal binocular single vision is present for all distances when the hypermetropic refractive error is corrected .
a form of constant esotropia in which the angle of deviation is partially affected by accommodative effort .
an intermittent esotropia with binocular single vision present at distance fixation but esotropia on accommodation for near fixation .
esotropia in a patient who has previously had exotropia or exophoria ;  may be constant or intermittent and usually follows surgical overcorrection .
fixation of an object in the area adjacent to the fovea .
fixation of an object in a peripheral area of the retina .
a type of epicanthus in which a medial vertical fold is present between upper and lower lids .
a type of epicanthus in which a primarily upper lid fold is present .
any structural anomaly of the posterior circulating artery  ( pcom )  .
a widening  ( ballooning )  localized in the wall of the posterior communicating artery .
a funnel - shaped symmetrical enlargement of the origin of the posterior communicating artery at its junction with the internal carotid artery .
an ocular deviation caused by a palsy to one or more of the extraocular muscles or nerves supplying them .
a form of manifest strabismus  ( heterotropia )  in which the one eye is wheel rotated so that the upper end of its vertical axis is nasal  ( incyclotropia )  or temporal  ( excyclotropia )  .
a form of latent strabismus  ( heterophoria )  in which the occluded eye wheel - rotates on dissociation .
a type of cyclophoria  ( latent strabismus in which the occluded eye wheel - rotates on dissociation . ) 
a type of cyclophoria  ( latent strabismus in which the occluded eye wheel - rotates on dissociation . ) 
a type of ascites in which there are large numbers of eosinophils in the ascitis fluid .
a type of microtropia with no manifest movement on cover test ,  the eccentric fixation point coinciding with the angle of arc .
a type of microtropia in which the manifest movement is demonstrated on the cover - uncover test .
a developmental defect in which the coronary sinus fails to form .
any structural anomaly of the portion of the aorta that arises from the base of the left ventricle and extends upward to the aortic arch and from which the coronary arteries arise .
an abnormality in voluntary or involuntary eyelid movements or their control .
transient eyelid retraction during refixation from down to straight ahead .
astigmatism in which the refractive power of the vertical meridian is the greatest .
refractive error in which the vertical meridian is relatively hypermetropic and the horizontal meridian is relatively myopic  ( or ocular astigmatism in which the refractive power of the horizontal meridian is the greatest )  .
astigmatism with more plus power on the horizontal meridian .
a type of astigmatism in which an unequal curvature of the cornea and some cases additionally of the lens causes one meridian of the eye to be hyperopic  ( farsighted )  and a second meridian that is perpendicular to the first to be myopic  ( nearsighted )  .
a type of astigmatism related to an irregular shape of the lens .
a type of astigmatism in which the principle meridians are not 90 degrees apart and which is associated with loss of vision .
an increased concentration of leptin in the blood .
a decrease below the normal concentration of glycerol in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glycerol in the blood .
applies to a sign ,  symptom or manifestation that occurs multiple times separated by intervals in which the sign ,  symptom ,  or manifestation is not present .
the course a disease typically takes from its onset ,  progression in time ,  and eventual resolution or death of the affected individual .
increased circulating level of apolipoprotein b ,  which is the main apolipoprotein of chylomicrons and low density lipoproteins .
reduced criculating level of apolipoprotein ai ,  which is the major protein component of high density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  in plasma .
an increased concentration in blood of apolipoprotein a - ii ,  a major component of hdl particles ,  associated with triglyceride and glucose metabolism .
any functional anomaly of the vocal cord .
bleeding within the fundus of the eye .
a subtype of fundus hemorrhage occurring within the neurosensory retina .
any deviation from the normal number of basophils per volume in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased count of basophils per volume in the blood circulation .
an abnormally reduced count of basophils per volume in the blood circulation .
shortening of the fourth and fifth metacarpals when the fist is clenched .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react to gangliosides .
presence of conjugated bilirubin in the urine .
presence of nitrites in the urine .
an excess of eosinophilic cells in colonic tissue ,  i .e . ,  eosinophilic infiltration in the colon .
repetition of one's own words or phrases .
a functional anomaly of the mouth  ( which is also known as the oral cavity )  .
any structural anomaly of the mouth ,  which is also known as the oral cavity .
an abnormally decreased concentration of parathyroid hormone .
a deviation from normal of the waist to hip ratio ,  defined as the waist measurement divided by hip measurement .
increased waist - to - hip ratio  ( whr )  is a measurement above the average for the dimensionless ratio of the circumference of the waist to that of the hips .
decreased waist - to - hip ratio  ( whr )  is a measurement below the average for the dimensionless ratio of the circumference of the waist to that of the hips .
altered level of the enzyme that catalyzes conversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine monophosphate via transfer of the 5 - phosphoribosyl group from 5 - phosphoribosyl 1 - pyrophosphate .
abnormally increased level of the enzyme that catalyzes conversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine monophosphate via transfer of the 5 - phosphoribosyl group from 5 - phosphoribosyl 1 - pyrophosphate .
abnormally decreased level of the enzyme that catalyzes conversion of hypoxanthine to inosine monophosphate and guanine to guanosine monophosphate via transfer of the 5 - phosphoribosyl group from 5 - phosphoribosyl 1 - pyrophosphate .
liver mast cell infiltration .
freezing of gait is defined as a brief ,  episodic absence or marked reduction of forward progression of the feet despite the intention to walk .
any anomaly of a reflex ,  i .e . ,  of an automatic response mediated by the nervous system  ( a reflex does not need the intervention of conscious thought to occur )  .
lack of contraction of abdominal muscles in the quadrant of the abdomen that is stimulated by scraping the skin tangential to or toward the umbilicus .
an anomaly of a reflex that is elicited as a motor response to scraping of the skin .
lack of response to scratching of the skin of the medial thigh ,  which in males normally elicits a brisk ,  short elevation of the ipsilateral testis ,  a phenomenon that is referred to as the cremaster reflex .
a pinguecula is a yellowish to brown protruding lesion in the conjunctiva that is easily seen on the nasal and temporal sides of the cornea .
a reduced concentration of zinc in the blood .
overshoot of downward saccadic eye movements .
saccadic undershoot of upward saccadic eye movements ,  i .e . ,  an upward saccadic eye movement that has less than the magnitude that would be required to gain fixation of the object .
small ectopic arteries or arterial branches that connect the aorta ,  aortic branches and / or subclavian artery regions directly to the lung parenchyma ,  usually seen in conjunction with pulmonary atresia ,  ventricular septal defect  ( vsd )  and / or closed ductus arteriosus .
an abnormal level of catalysis of the reaction: 2 superoxide  +  2 h +  = o2  +  hydrogen peroxide .
increased level of catalysis of the reaction: 2 superoxide  +  2 h +  = o2  +  hydrogen peroxide .
decreased level of catalysis of the reaction: 2 superoxide  +  2 h +  = o2  +  hydrogen peroxide .
presence of a chemical substance found within an individual that is not naturally produced or expected to be present in human tissues or bodily fluids .
the presence of a xenobiotic in urine .
detection of methadone or its metabolite 2 - ethylidene - 1 , 5 - dimethyl - 3 , 3 -  diphenylpyrrolidine  ( eddp )  in urine .
dilation of the lymphatic vessels ,  the basic process that may result in the formation of a lymphangioma .
abnormal slowness of thought processes .
a sense of intense joy or happiness that is beyond what would be expected under the given circumstances .
any deviation from the normal sexual drive or desire for sexual activity .
a break or crush injury of the thigh bone  ( femur )  .
reduced ability to walk  ( ambulate )  in a backwards direction .
an abnormality of gait that can be observed in individuals with dystonic posture in which the individual walks with an extended trunk and flexed arms ,  while strutting on the toes without the heels touching the floor .
a reversal of sleeping habits with a tendency to sleep during the day and to be awake at night .
any deviation from the normal ratio of the volume of red blood cells to the total volume of blood .
a reduction below the normal ratio of the volume of red blood cells to the total volume of blood .
isomerism in the context of the congenitally malformed heart is defined as a situation where some paired structures on opposite sides of the left - right axis of the body are ,  in morphologic terms ,  symmetrical mirror images of each other .
a type of heterotaxy where some paired structures on opposite sides of the left - right axis of the body are symmetrical mirror images of each other ,  and have the morphology of the normal left - sided structures .
a type of heterotaxy where some paired structures on opposite sides of the left - right axis of the body are symmetrical mirror images of each other ,  and have the morphology of the normal right - sided structures .
an abnormal gait characterized by toe walking ,  stiff legs ,  and skipping .
reduced or inadequate esophageal peristalsis ,  with resultant slow passage of contents through the esophagus .
longitudinal grooves in the surface of the esophagus arranged in a longitudinal fashion  ( from top to bottom of the esophagus )  .
any abnormality in the variability of the time interval between successive heartbeats .
reduced variation of beat - to - beat intervals of the heart that occurs in conjunction with the respiratory cycle .
increased variation of beat - to - beat intervals of the heart that occurs in conjunction with the respiratory cycle .
the presence of an infectious agent in the blood circulation .
presence of viable bacteria in the blood .
any functional anomaly of the liver .
clasp - knife phenomonen refers to increased muscle tone while bending or stretching a limb ,  whereby there is a sudden relaxation  ( decrease in resistance )  as the muscle continues to be streched .
increased passive stiffness or tightness of the neck musculature .
difficulty reaching to visually guided goals in peripheral vision ,  with the deficit leaves voluntary eye movements largely unaffected .
dislocation of a given joint repeated times .
an elevated concentration of phosphohydroxylysine in the urine .
any functional anomaly of langerhans cells ,  which are dendritic cells in the epidermis and some other locations .
birbeck granules  ( bg )  are cytoplasmic organelles that are only found in langerhans cells  ( lc )  .
a tendency towards rising very early in the morning and going to bed early in the evening .
a tendency towards rising very late in the morning and going to bed late at night .
any deviation from the normal concentration of hepcidin in the blood circulation .
an abnormally reduced concentration of hepcidin in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of hepcidin in the blood circulation .
small hands and feet in proportion to the rest of the body .
any functional abnormality of the eyelid .
abnormally lax eyelid associated with tissue relaxation ;  it can be demonstrated by the eyelid distraction test and / or the eyelid snap test .
a form of watery eye associated with obstruction of the nasolacrimal system .
a congenital abnormality of the cerebral hemisphere characterized by lack of gyrations  ( convolutions )  of the cerebral cortex .
an elevated concentration of proinsulin  ( the prohormone precursor to insulin )  to mature insulin in the circulation .
a deviation from normal concentration of glucose content in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally high glucose concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of low - density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal circulating concentration of chylomicrons .
any deviation from the normal concentration of high - density lipoprotein cholesterol  ( hdl )  in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of very - low - density lipoprotein cholesterol in the blood .
an elevated concentration of urobilinogen in the urine .
abnormal reduction in the count of eosinophils in the blood per volume .
increased amount of stacking of erythrocytes into long chains .
any deviation from the activity of coagulation factor v .
an abnormally elevated concentration of total tryptase  ( alpha and beta tryptase )  in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal circulating concentration of selenium .
any deviation from the normal total hemolytic complement activity in the circulation .
an abnormally elevated total hemolytic complement activity in the circulation .
an abnormally reduced total hemolytic complement activity in the circulation .
the presence of m2 anti - mitochondrial antibody  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum .
abnormally small sized handwriting defined formally as an impairment of a fine motor skill manifesting mainly as a progressive or stable reduction in amplitude during a writing task .
a uterus that has a single horn ,  with a banana - like shape that may or may not have a secondary rudimentary uterine horn .
a functional abnormality affecting one or more of the cranial nerves ,  which emerge directly from the brain stem .
decreased or absent sensation in the distribution of the trigeminal nerve ,  which provides tactile ,  proprioceptive ,  and nociceptive sensation in the area of the face and mouth .
rhombencephalosynapsis is a rare brain malformation defined by midline fusion of the cerebellar hemispheres with partial or complete loss of the intervening vermis .
varying irregularly over time in severity ,  amount ,  or amplitude .
this modifier can be applied to a phenotypic feature that does not vary in severity or amount over time .
an open sore on the surface of the skin of a finger or toe .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that arises from the ovary and is composed of granulosa cells ,  sertoli cells ,  leydig cells ,  theca cells ,  and fibroblasts .
juvenile granulosa cell ovarian tumor  ( jgcot )  is a rare sex cord stromal tumor ,  occuring most frequently in premenarchal girls or young women .
an aggressive granulosa cell tumor that arises from the ovary .
pain of the gastrocnemius muscle .
the renal arteries carry blood from the aorta to the kidney ;  normally one renal artery is present on each side of the body .
accumulation of blood in the vagina usually due to vaginal obstruction .
the presence of linear erythematous palpable cords ,  often on the lateral trunk .
a halo or spoke - wheel arrangement of cells surrounding a central core or hub .
a type of rosette in which the central lumen or hub is filled with fiber - like processes .
the tumor cells that form the flexner - wintersteiner rosette circumscribe a central lumen that contains small cytoplasmic extensions of the encircling cells ;  however ,  unlike the center of the homer wright rosette ,  the central lumen does not contain the fiber - rich neuropil .
a type of rosette in which a halo of cells surrounds an empty lumen .
a type of rosette in which a spoke - wheel arrangement of cells with tapered cellular processes radiates around a wall of a centrally placed vessel .
a type of rosette that is similar to the homer wright rosette ,  but the central fiber - rich neuropil island is larger and more irregular .
ocular flutter is an abnormal eye movement consisting of repetitive ,  irregular ,  involuntary bursts of horizontal saccades without an intersaccadic interval .
aorto - left ventricular tunnel  ( alvt )  is a congenital extracardiac channel connecting the ascending aorta above the sino - tubular junction to either left ventricular cavity .
the presence of an extracardiac channel that connects the ascending aorta above the sinotubular junction to the cavity of the right ventricle .
a structural abnormality of the part of the aorta that begins at the aortic arch and then descends through the chest and abdomen .
significant luminal narrowing of a long segment of or the entire ascending aorta .
a failure to achieve the ability to walk at an appropriate developmental stage .
extreme rapidity of speech .
any structural anomaly of the conus terminalis ,  which is the distal bulbous part of the spinal cord at the location where the spinal cord tapers and ends  ( usually between the l1 and l2 lumbar vertebrae )  .
any structural anomaly of the portal venous sytem ,  which comprises all of the veins draining the abdominal part of the digestive tract ,  including the lower esophagus but excluding the lower anal canal .
anomaly where the intestinal and the splenic venous drainage bypass the liver and drain into systemic veins through other possible venous shunts .
a state of motor restlessness ,  usually in the lower extremities ,  that is often but not always accompanied by a subjective sense of inner restlessness ,  an urge to move ,  and anxiety or dysphoria .
an increase in the thickness of the pleura ,  generally related to scarring of the pleural tissue .
an increased concentration of n , n - dimethylglycine in the circulation .
an increased concentration of n , n - dimethylglycine in the urine .
an unintentional ,  oscillating to - and - fro muscle movement affecting the tongue .
centrally located corpus callosum hyperintensities said to resemble snowballs upon magnetic resonance imaging  ( with t2 or sagittal fluid attenuated inversion recovery  [ flair ]  sequences )  .
an increased susceptibility to bacterial upper respiratory tract infections as manifested by a history of recurrent bacterial upper respiratory tract infections  ( running ears  -  otitis ,  sinusitis ,  pharyngitis ,  tonsillitis )  .
temporal and spatial heterogeneity in lungs based on presence of fibrosis and honeycombing .
seizures that occur while the affected individual is sleeping .
lumbar spinal stenoses may induce symptoms following an individually typical latency on standing or when walking due to swelling of the cauda equina ,  which leads to compression .
cautious gait refers to an excessive degree of age - related changes in walking and fear of falling .
dystonic gait disorders frequently appear bizarre ,  particularly because activity increases dystonic tonus and posture .
to avoid pain weight is put on the affected leg for as short a time as possible ,  resulting in a limp .
an abnormally high concentration in the circulation of aspartate aminotransferase  ( ast )  .
spastic hemiparesis is characterized by a dominance of the tonus in the upper limb flexor muscles: the arm is held in an adducted posture and is bent and rotated inwards ,  the forearm is pronated and the hand and the fingers are flexed .
a type of spastic gait in which the legs are usually slightly bent at the hip and in an adducted position .
a type of dystonia  ( abnormally increased muscular tone causing fixed abnormal postures )  that affects muscles of the legs .
a type of dystonia  ( abnormally increased muscular tone causing fixed abnormal postures )  that affects muscles of the arms .
any deviation from the normal value of the serum anion gap ,  which is calculated from the electrolytes measured in the chemical laboratory ,  is defined as the sum of serum chloride and bicarbonate concentrations subtracted from the serum sodium concentration .
an abnormally high value of the serum anion gap  ( the sum of serum chloride and bicarbonate concentrations subtracted from the serum sodium concentration )  .
an abnormally low value of the serum anion gap  ( the sum of serum chloride and bicarbonate concentrations subtracted from the serum sodium concentration )  .
an abnormally high concentration in the circulation of alanine aminotransferase  ( alt )  ,  which is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of amino groups to form the hepatic metabolite oxaloacetate .
red blood cell distribution width  ( rdw )  is a simple parameter of the standard full blood count and a measure of heterogeneity in the size of circulating erythrocytes .
the appearance of the urine having visible material in suspension ,  i .e . ,  appearing cloudy .
an abnormally low concentration of urea nitrogen in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of urea nitrogen in the blood .
a localized hypertrophy of the subaortic segment of the ventricular septum has been frequently described in elderly persons ,  and variously termed subaortic ventricular septal bulge  ( vsb )  ,  sigmoid - shaped septum ,  localized or discrete upper septal hypertrophy .
presyncope is a state of lightheadedness ,  muscular weakness ,  blurred vision ,  and feeling faint .
an abnormal increase in the ratio of the height of the cup of the optic nerve head to the height of the disc .
ratio of the height of the cup of the optic nerve head to the height of the disc is 0 .6  ( the normal cup - to - disc ratio is 0 .3 )  .
ratio of the height of the cup of the optic nerve head to the height of the disc is 0 .7  ( the normal cup - to - disc ratio is 0 .3 )  .
ratio of the height of the cup of the optic nerve head to the height of the disc is 0 .8  ( the normal cup - to - disc ratio is 0 .3 )  .
ratio of the height of the cup of the optic nerve head to the height of the disc is 0 .9  ( the normal cup - to - disc ratio is 0 .3 )  .
ratio of the height of the cup of the optic nerve head to the height of the disc is 1 .0  ( the normal cup - to - disc ratio is 0 .3 )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carbohydrate in the urine .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of glycolate in the urine .
any structural anomaly of the putamen ,  a brain nucleus which together with the caudate nucleus and fundus striati makes up the striatum .
this term groups terms representing abnormal findings derived from chest x - ray investigation of the lung .
a piece of food that has gotten stuck in the esophagus and prevents further swallowing .
an exudate is a mass of fluid and cells that has seeped out of blood vessels or an organ ,  usually related to inflammation .
irregular ,  small - amplitude myoclonic movements of the hands and / or fingers on keeping outstretched posture  ( jerky postural tremor )  .
being unable to focus one's attention or mental effort on a particular object or activity .
a sudden involuntary contraction of the musculature surrounding the mouth .
a contraction of ipsilateral facial muscles subsequent to percussion over the facial nerve .
an increased concentration of beta - 1 - galactosyl - o - hydroxylysine  ( gal - hyl )  in the urine .
apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy  ( ahcm )  is diastolic dysfunction due to abnormal stiffness of the left ventricle during diastole ,  with resultant impaired ventricular filling .
a hoffman test is performed by flicking the fingernail of the long finger ,  from dorsal to volar ,  on each hand while the hand was supported by the examiner's hand .
bronchial breath sounds contain much higher frequency components than normal breath sounds due to alteration of the low pass filtering function of the alveoli ,  as occurs in consolidation .
squawks are short inspiratory wheezes of less than 200 ms duration and are also known as squeaks .
crackles that are heard during the inspiratory phase .
crackles that appear at the beginning of inspiration and end before mid - inspiration .
crackles that appear any time after the beginning of inspiration and last till the end of inspiration .
crackles that occur during expiration .
an abnormal breath sound that is nonmusical ,  short and explosive .
an abnormal pink color of urine .
an abnormal orange color of urine .
an abnormal green color of urine .
a sensation of itching in the vulvar region .
hemidystonia refers to dystonia which involves the ipsilateral face ,  arm ,  and leg .
an unintentional ,  oscillating to - and - fro muscle movement affecting the lip .
a softening and breaking down of skin resulting from prolonged exposure to moisture .
the release of fat globules into the venous circulation ,  thereby blocking blood circulation to the lung .
constant exotropia occurring before 6 months of age .
constant exotropia for near and distance ,  presenting after 6 months of age .
heterophorias are latent deviations that are controlled by fusion .
manifest deviation of the visual axes not controlled by fusion .
overshoot of horizontal  ( sideways )  saccadic eye movements .
inaccurate saccades  ( rapid movement of the eye between fixation points )  in the vertical direction .
inaccurate saccades  ( rapid movement of the eye between fixation points )  in the horizontal direction .
abnormal appearance of material expectorated  ( coughed up )  from the respiratory system and that is composed of mucus but may contain other substances such as pus ,  blood ,  microorganisms ,  and fibrin .
an increased proportion of eosinophils in sputum in the differentiated cell count .
a type of peripheral neuropathy that happens when there is damage to two or more different nerve areas characterized by peripheral neuropathy of both the motor and sensory nerves of at least two different nerve trunks .
eosinophil infiltration of skeletal muscle .
transmural inflammation of the bladder predominantly with eosinophils ,  associated with fibrosis with or without muscle necrosis .
cellular infiltration of the liver parenchyma with a preponderance of eosinophils .
presence of abnormally increased amounts of intraepidermal inflammatory cells with a predominance of eosinophils .
cellular infiltrate confirmed by a cellular infiltrate comprised of mainly eosinophils in the gallbladder wall on histological examination .
an erosion of the mucous membrane in a portion of the ileum .
a reduced concentration of circulating alpha - 1 antitrypsin ,  which is a 52 - kda glycoprotein mainly synthesised and secreted by hepatocytes into the bloodstream .
circumscribed area of flaccid skin due to the loss of elastic tissue in the dermis .
yellow ,  white or greyish lesions in the retina that are well - defined / distinct ,  individual and mostly uniform in size .
yellow ,  white or greyish lesions in the macula that are well - defined / distinct ,  individual and mostly uniform in size .
excessive eyelid tissue laxity ,  typically affecting both upper eyelids and associated with spontanteous tarsal eversion during sleep .
laxity of the tendon stabilising the lateral aspect of the tarsal plate to the zygomatic bone .
laxity of the tendon stabilising the medial aspect of the tarsal plate to the anterior and posterior lacrimal crests .
abnormally lax eyelid associated with tissue relaxation ,  predominantly in the horizontal plane .
abnormally lax eyelid associated with tissue relaxation ,  predominantly in the vertical plane .
abnormally lax upper eyelid associated with tissue relaxation .
abnormally lax lower eyelid associated with tissue relaxation .
an abnormality in perception of contrast .
mild reduction of the ability to see defined as visual acuity less than 6 / 12  ( 20 / 40 in us notation ;  0 .5 in decimal notation )  but at least 6 / 18  ( 20 / 63 in us notation ;  0 .32 in decimal notation )  .
an anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
a functional anomaly of the adjacent structures  ( i .e . ,  adnexa )  of the eye ,  defined as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva .
a small growth on a vocal cord that may appear as pedunculated or sessile and have varying size ,  shape ,  and color .
pain experienced with swallowing .
a reduction in the ability to maintain sustained attention characterized by reduced alertness .
underdevelopment of the carotid canal ,  which normally is a circular aperture in the temporal bone of the skull through which the internal carotid artery and the carotid plexus of nerves traverse .
a type of malformation of cortical development that primarily affects areas of neocortex .
a type of focal cortical dysplasia that is characterized by abnormal cortical layering .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type i that is characterized by abnormal radial cortical lamination .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type i that is characterized by abnormal tangential cortical lamination .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type i that is characterized by abnormal radial and tangential cortical lamination .
a type of focal cortical dysplasia that is characterized by disrupted cortical lamination and specific cytological abnormalities .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type ii that is characterized by dysmorphic neurons ,  which present with a significantly enlarged cell body and nucleus ,  malorientation ,  abnormally distributed intracellular nissl substance and cytoplasmic accumulation of neurofilament proteins .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type ii that is characterized by dysmorphic neurons  ( significantly enlarged with accumulation of neurofilament proteins )  and balloon cells .
a type of focal cortical dysplasia that is characterized by cortical lamination abnormalities associated with a principal lesion ,  usually adjacent to or affecting the same cortical area / lobe .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type iii that is characterized by alterations in architectural organisation  ( cortical dyslamination )  or cytoarchitectural composition  ( hypertrophic neurons outside layer 5 )  in patients with hippocampal sclerosis  ( hs ,  syn .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type iii that is characterized by altered architectural  ( cortical dyslamination ,  hypoplasia without six - layered structure )  and / or cytoarchitectural composition  ( hypertrophic neurons )  of the neocortex ,  which occur adjacent to glial or glioneuronal tumor .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type iii that is characterized by alterations in architectural  ( cortical dyslamination ,  hypoplasia )  or cytoarchitectural composition of the neocortex  ( hypertrophic neurons )  ,  which occur adjacent to vascular malformations  ( cavernomas ,  arteriovenous malformations ,  leptomeningeal vascular malformations ,  telangiectasias ,  meningioangiomatosis )  .
a subtype of focal cortical dysplasia type iii that is characterized by altered architectural  ( cortical dyslamination ,  hypoplasia without six - layered structure )  or cytoarchitectural composition  ( hypertrophic neurons )  of the neocortex ,  which occur adjacent to other lesions acquired during early life  ( not included into fcd type iiia - c )  .
a malformation of cortical development characterized by mild abnormalities of the cortex: excessive heterotopic neurons in layer 1 or microscopic neuronal clusters or excess of single neurons of normal morphology in deep white matter .
a benign neoplasm that includes blood vessel proliferation and a dense eosinophilic inflammatory infiltrate ,  manifesting as flesh / plum - colored pruritic nodules and papules ,  most commonly affecting the ear and the periauricular area .
a severely increased count of eosinophils in the blood defined as a blood eosinophil count of 1 .5  10e9 / l or greater  ( one and a half billion cells per liter )  .
vomiting - induced mucosal laceration at the esophago - gastric junction .
abnormal accumulation of fluid in or around the ankle joint .
eosinophilic infiltration of one or more gastrointestinal organs .
any deviation from the normal concentration of bicarbonate ,  hco3 [  -  ]  ,  in the circulation .
an abnormal reduction of the concentration of bicarbonate ,  hco3 [  -  ]  ,  in the circulation .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of bicarbonate ,  hco3 [  -  ]  ,  in the circulation .
an increased amount of urinary mucus .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react to thyroglobulin .
contrast material enhancement of the pia mater or enhancement that extends into the subarachnoid spaces of the sulci and cisterns is leptomeningeal enhancement .
the presence of eosinophils in lung tissue ,  generally as detected by tissue biopsy ,  with or without blood eosinophilia .
a fluid - filled mass that is a distention of a preexisting bursa in the popliteal fossa ,  most commonly the gastrocnemio - semimembranosus bursa .
aplasia ,  that is failure to develop ,  of the fallopian tube .
fusion of the pancreatic tail and spleen .
an abnormal narrowing of the urethral opening  ( meatus )  of the penis .
a phalangeal malformation that is termed angel - shaped phalanx  ( asp )  ,  because of its resemblance to the angels used for decoration of christmas trees .
medial degeneration of the aorta is to be used as an overarching term for any aortic surgical specimens that demonstrate one or more of the specific histopathologies mucoid extracellular matrix accumulation ,  elastic fiber fragmentation and / or loss ,  elastic fiber thinning ,  elastic fiber disorganization ,  smooth muscle cell nuclei loss ,  laminar medial collapse ,  smooth muscle cell disorganization ,  medial fibrosis .
a type of mucoid extracellular matrix accumulation in which the increase in mucoid extracellular matrix does not significantly alter the arrangement of the lamellar units .
a type of mucoid extracellular matrix accumulation in which the increase in mucoid extracellular matrix alters the arrangement of the lamellar units to varying degrees .
loss and / or fragmentation of elastic fibers of the media of the aorta creating increasingly extended translamellar spaces ,  with absence of elastic fibers ,  and increased gaps in elastic fiber lamellae as identified on a stain for elastic fibers .
a thinning out of elastic fibers of the media of the aorta that creates widening of intralamellar spaces ,  as identified on a stain for elastic fibers .
nonparallel arrangement / disarray of elastic fibers of the media of the aorta as identified on a stain for elastic fibers .
a region of the aortic media in which smooth muscle cell nuclei ,  involving multiple lamellae ,  are not clearly identifiable on an hematoxylin and eosin stain .
architecturally ,  a compaction of aortic medial elastic fibers that creates thinning of the lamellar unit secondary to a band - like smooth muscle cell loss identified using a stain for elastic fibers .
nonparallel arrangement / disarray of smooth muscle cells of the aortic media creating focal / multifocal disarray or sometimes nodular aggregates of smooth muscle cells .
an increase in collagen fibers creating areas of substitutive fibrosis or a widening of intralamellar spaces in the media of the aorta .
a type of aortic medial fibrosis in which the increase in collagen does not significantly alter the arrangement of the lamellar units .
a type of aortic medial fibrosis in which the increase in collagen is more scar - like ,  altering the arrangement of the lamellar units .
left ventricular outflow tract  ( lvot )  obstruction can occur at the valvular ,  subvalvular ,  or supravalvular level .
an increased concentration of a surfactant protein in the blood circulation .
a deviation from the normal range of manganese in the blood circulation .
an elevation above the normal concentration of manganese in the blood .
the presence of radial grooves in the skin surrounding the mouth  ( see figure 4 of pmid:27833976 )  .
the doll's eye reflex  ( also known as oculocephalic reflex )  is a test of brain function that is performed in comatose patients by elevating the head roughly 30 degrees and rapidly rotating the head from side to side with the eyes kept open .
a type of infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
wilson sign is defined as the elicitation of pain by internally rotating the patient's tibia during knee extension between 90 degrees and 30 degrees of flexion and then relieving that pain by externally rotating the tibia .
an involuntary abnormality of fixation in which there is an abnormal saccade away from fixation followed by an immediate corrective saccade .
a type of saccadic oscillations with brief periods of fixation between saccades  ( intersaccadic interval approximately 200 msec )  .
conjunctival icterus is a condition where there is yellowing of the whites of the eyes .
a condition characterized by a loss or deficiency of the stem cells in the limbus that are vital for re - population of the corneal epithelium and to the barrier function of the limbus .
a mild reduction in the ability to perceive visual contrast characterized by 0 .20 - 0 .59 log unit contrast sensitivity loss .
a moderate reduction in the ability to perceive visual contrast characterized by 0 .60 - 0 .99 log unit contrast sensitivity loss .
a severe reduction in the ability to perceive visual contrast characterized by 1 .00 log unit or more contrast sensitivity loss .
an abnormality in perception of contrast as measured by the vistech wall chart sine wave grating test .
an abnormality in perception of contrast as measured by the pelli - robson contrast sensitivity chart ,  which is a large wall - mounted chart ,  with letters of a fixed size  ( comprising spatial frequencies appropriate for estimating peak contrast sensitivity )  that decrease in contrast .
a mode of inheritance that is observed for traits related to a gene encoded on chromosomes in which a trait can manifest in the heterozygotes and homozygotes ,  with differing phenotype severity present dependent on the number of alleles affected .
an involuntary abnormality of fixation in which there is an abnormal saccade away from fixation followed by a delayed corrective saccade .
horizontal 10 - 40 degree excursions from fixation and back again .
inflammation of the retina of the eye .
a type of glaucomatous optic neuropathy occuring in the presence of a narrow anterior chamber angle .
any functional abnormality of the part of the nervous system that consists of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord .
an abnormal result of a physical examination of the the hand that tests for palsy of the ulnar nerve .
a reduction in visual acuity with best corrected visual acuity between 1 .40  ( 20 / 500 )  and 1 .89 logmar  ( up to roughly 20 / 1590 )  .
best corrected visual acuity worse than 1 .90 logmar  ( roughly 20 / 1590 )  .
a deviation of the normal proportion of unswitched memory b cells in circulation relative to the total number of b cells .
an increase above the normal proportion of non - class - switched memory b cells relative to the total number of b cells .
a reduction below the normal proportion of non - class - switched memory b cells relative to the total number of b cells .
a deviation from the normal proportion of plasmablasts in circulation relative to total number of b cells .
an elevation above the normal proportion of plasmablasts in circulation relative to total number of b cells .
a reduction below the normal proportion of plasmablasts in circulation relative to total number of b cells .
mycobacterium abscessus complex comprises a group of rapidly growing ,  multidrug - resistant ,  nontuberculous mycobacteria that are responsible for a wide spectrum of skin and soft tissue diseases ,  central nervous system infections ,  bacteremia ,  and ocular and other infections .
cervical dysplasia is the precursor to cervical cancer .
a reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  in the blood .
a temporary reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  in the blood .
a lasting reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  in the blood .
a reduction below the normal concentration of a subclass of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  in the blood .
a reduction in immunoglobulin levels of the igg1 subclass in the blood circulation .
a reduction in immunoglobulin levels of the igg3 subclass in the blood circulation .
a reduction in immunoglobulin levels of the igg4 subclass in the blood circulation .
level of isohemagglutinin reduced below expected concentration .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against toxoids and polysaccharides in vaccines ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
a type of chest pain that arises in the or under the left breast and often described as throbbing ,  stabbing ,  or burning ,  and lasting hours or longer .
fetor hepaticus is the characteristic breath of patients with severe parenchymal liver disease ,  which has been said to resemble the odor of a mixture of rotten eggs and garlic .
an intense sensation of burning ,  scalding ,  or tingling feeling of the tongue or other regions of the oral mucosa .
vomit that has the appearance of coffee grounds ,  which occurs due to the presence of coagulated blood in the vomit .
wasting of the sural nerve ,  a sensory nerve in the calf region of the leg .
presence of an abnormal type of hemoglobin characterized by the subsitution of a glutamic acid residue at position 7 following the initial methionine residue by a lysine  ( 6gag > 6aag )  .
recurrent episodes of redness ,  burning pain ,  and warmth of the extremities following exposure to heat or exercise with symptoms predominantly involving the feet .
intermittent pain ,  i .e . ,  pain that occurs occasionally and at irregular intervals .
a episode of severe pain that breaks through  ( i .e . ,  temporarily exacerbates )  a period of persistent pain .
excruciating burning pain in the rectal area that may be triggered by defecation .
recurrent episodes of marked eosinophilia that resolve spontaneously .
an anomaly of the hair follicles of the skin that typically presents as small ,  rough ,  brown folliculocentric papules distributed over characteristic areas of the skin ,  particularly the outer - upper arms and thighs .
a partial dislocation of a joint .
oral aphthous ulcers typically present as painful ,  sharply circumscribed fibrin - covered mucosal defects with a hyperemic border .
a type of abdominal pain characterized by a feeling of contractions and typically fluctuating in intensity .
loss of sections of skin either spontaneously or after gentle handling .
recurrent episodes of genital herpes ,  typically characterized by stages of erythema ,  papules ,  short - lived vesicles ,  painful ulcers ,  and crusts on the skin of the genitals and surrounding area ,  and that typically resolve over a period of 2 to 3 weeks .
an unusual infection classified by the affected body part .
an infection of the meninges caused by a fungus .
a type of fungal meningitis caused by an encapsulated yeast that belongs to the genus cryptococcus .
a type of fungal meningitis caused by dissemination of coccidioides to basilar meninges .
a type of infection of the skin that can be regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection .
molluscum contagiosum is a cutaneous viral infection that is commonly observed in both healthy and immunocompromised children .
placental mesenchymal dysplasia is an abnormality of the stem villi of the placenta that may be mistaken for a hydatidiform mole ,  and in particular ,  partial mole ,  owing to the mixture of cysts and normal - appearing parenchyma .
an infection of the small intestine  ( enteritis )  by clostridium difficile .
an infection of the colon  ( colitis )  by clostridium difficile .
a type of infection that is regarded as a sign of a pathological susceptibility to infection because of unusual severity or intensity of the infection .
an unusually severe form of varicella zoster virus  ( vzv )  infection .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the urinary bladder .
a crescent of air surrounding a soft - tissue mass in a pulmonary cavity and can be seen in both plain x - ray and ct scan .
this sign is seen in pneumomediastinum in which air accumulates between the lower border of the heart and the superior part of the diaphragm ,  which results in complete visualization of the diaphragm in chest x - ray ,  hence named continuous diaphragm sign .
the tree - in - bud pattern represents centrilobular branching structures that resemble a budding tree .
this finding is composed of a ring - shaped opacity representing a dilated bronchus in cross section and a smaller adjacent opacity representing its pulmonary artery ,  with the combination resembling a signet  ( or pearl )  ring .
an apical cap is a caplike lesion at the lung apex ,  usually caused by intrapulmonary and pleural fibrosis pulling down extrapleural fat or possibly by chronic ischemia resulting in hyaline plaque formation on the visceral pleura .
consolidation refers to an exudate or other product of disease that replaces alveolar air ,  rendering the lung solid  ( as in infective pneumonia )  .
a dermatosis characterized by generalized shiny ,  enamel - like ,  hyperpigmented scales in an irregular pattern .
an abnormal concentration of globulins in the blood .
an abnormal level of an analyte measured in the blood .
an abnormality of the hepatic veins ,  which normally drain de - oxygenated blood from the liver into the inferior vena cava ,  whereby the hepatic veins drain into the left atrium .
an abnormal proportion of memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormally reduced proportion of memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormally elevated proportion of memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
the presense of molluscum contagiosum lesions across multiple areas of the body .
a benign or malignant neoplasm that affects the anal canal or anal margin .
anal intraepithelial neoplasia  ( ain )  is a premalignant lesion of the anal mucosa that is a precursor to anal cancer .
an increased cellular sensitivity to the dna cross - linking agent ,  mitomycin c  ( mmc )  .
an increased cellular sensitivity to the dna cross - linking agent ,  diepoxybutane  ( deb )  .
abnormal structure of the meniscus of the knee ,  two crescent shape fibrocartilaginous pads that disperse the weight of the body and reduce friction of the knee joint during movement .
a tear in the cartilaginous pad  ( meniscus )  of the knee .
hydatidiform mole  ( hm )  is an aberrant human pregnancy with absence of ,  or abnormal embryonic development ,  hydropic degeneration of chorionic villi ,  and excessive proliferation of the trophoblast .
an abnormal decrease in the average size of low - density lipoprotein particle size in the blood circulation .
any anomaly of the s wave ,  which is the third component of the qrs wave complex .
increased amplitude  ( 0 .1 mv or more )  and / or duration  ( 40 ms or more )  of the s wave as measured in lead i of the electrocardiogram .
abnormal depth of the s wave in lead v5 of the electrocardiogram .
abnormally short time to coagulation in the prothrombin time test ,  which is a measure of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
any deviation from the normal amount of time to coagulation in the prothrombin time test ,  which is a measure of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation .
the presence of thick collagen bundles around blood vessels ,  often in an onion - skin type whorling pattern .
the term rotator cuff describes the tendons connecting the infraspinatus ,  supraspinatus ,  teres minor ,  and subscapularis muscles to the humeral head .traumatic tears of the rotator cuff tend to occur at the tendon - bone junction of the supraspinatus and greater tuberosity of the humerus whereas degenerative tears tend to be seen posteriorly at the junction of the supraspinatus and infraspinatu a rotator cuff tear is when one or more of these tendons tears or detaches from the humerus .
vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia  ( vin )  is widely accepted as the precursor lesion of vulvar squamous cell carcinoma  ( vscc )  .
lymphoid nodular hyperplasia  ( lnh )  of the terminal ileum and colon has been considered a mucosal response to nonspecific stimuli ,  most often infections ,  and consequently has been regarded as a pathophysiologic phenomenon during infancy and childhood .
chronic active epstein - barr virus  ( ebv )  infection is an uncommon outcome of ebv infection and may present as a waxing and waning or fulminant syndrome .
galectin - 3 is a member of the family of beta - galactoside - binding endogenous lectins .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in cerebrospinal fluid .
an increased concentration of type 1 collagen n - terminal telopeptide  ( ntx )  level in the urine .
a deviation from the normal concentration of free triiodothyronine  ( t3 )  in the blood circulation .
a reduced concentration of free 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine in the blood circulation .
an increased number of epithelial cells per high - power field in urinanalysis .
an increased number of squamous epithelial cells per high - power field in urinanalysis .
an increased number of renal tubular epithelial cells per high - power field in urinanalysis .
an increased number of transitional epithelial cells per high - power field in urinanalysis .
multiple skin warts located in multiple parts of the body ,  e .g . ,  neck ,  trunks ,  and extremities .
abnormally increased intraepithelial lymphocyte count .
a skin nodule that is unusually hard  ( indurated )  .
a reduction in the proportion of cd4 - positive t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an elevation in the proportion of cd4 - positive t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
inflammation of the liver characterized by a mononuclear cell infiltrate whereby portal inflammatory cells extend through the limiting plate between the portal tract and liver parenchyma .
the engulfing of lymphocytes by hepatocytes ,  which typically occurs in the interface hepatitis area .
the presence of multiple serrated polyps in the intestine .
any of the various types of human blood whose antigen characteristics determine compatibility in transfusion .
the abo system consists of a and b antigens and antibodies against these antigens .
perifollicular fibroma is a rare cutaneous hamartoma that shows differentiation in the connective tissue sheath of hair follicles .
any structural anomaly of the sebaceous glands .
a common ,  benign skin condition involving hypertrophy of the sebaceous glands characterized by single or multiple lesions that manifest as yellow ,  soft ,  small papules with umbilication .
a small benign fibrovascular tumor of the dermal part of the hair disk .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react against proteins predominantly expressed in perinuclear region of neutrophils .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react against proteins predominantly expressed in cytoplasmic granules of neutrophils .
a qualitative impression that red blood cells have less color than normal when examined under a microscope ,  usually related to a reduced amount of hemoglobin in the red blood cells .
an increased concentration of the mb isoform of creatine kinase in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of the bb isoform of creatine kinase in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of the mm isoform of creatine kinase in the blood circulation .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against the la / sjogrens syndrome antigen .
an abnormally increased number of immature neutrophils in the peripheral blood circulation .
an abnormally increased number of myelocytes in the peripheral blood circulation .
an abnormally increased number of metamyelocytes in the peripheral blood circulation .
an abnormally increased number of band cells in the peripheral blood circulation .
an increased concentration of e selectin in the blood circulation .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the uterine cervix .
a precancerous condition characterized by dysplasia of the cervical epithelium .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in a tissue .
a reduction in the concentration of thromboxane b2 in the blood circulation .
an abnormality in the function of the chemical reactions related to processes including conversion of food to enter ,  synthesis of proteins ,  lipids ,  nucleic acids ,  and carbohydrates ,  or the elimination of waste products .
lasting  ( uncontrolled )  presence of cytomegalovirus in the blood circulation .
persistence of virus in the blood circulation longer than would be normal in an immunocompentent host .
infection by a coccidioides species fungus .
an infection by acinetobacter baumannii ,  a gram - negative bacillus that is aerobic ,  pleomorphic and non - motile .
a compact ,  organized collection of mature mononuclear phagocytes ,  which may be but is not necessarily accompanied by accessory features such as necrosis .
a type of granuloma characterized morphologically by the predominance of langerhans cells with characteristic grooved ,  folded ,  indented nuclei in the appropriate milieu that includes variable numbers of eosinophils and histiocytes including multinucleated forms ,  often appearing similar to osteoclasts or touton like giant cells ,  neutrophils and small lymphocytes .
an abnormally elevated concentration of copper in the blood circulation .
an infection that is caused by a fungus that would generally not be able to cause an infection in a host with a normal immune system .
histoplasmosis is caused by the fungus histoplasma capsulatum and is consider to be an opportunistic infection in immunosuppressed persons .
histoplasmosis infection involving multiple sites of the body .
infection of the lungs with histoplasma capsulatum .
the term tinea means fungal infection ,  whereas dermatophyte refers to the fungal organisms that cause tinea .
an infection that is caused by a bacterium that would generally not be able to cause an infection in a host with a normal immune system .
an infection of the lung caused by environmental mycobacteria .
a lung infection by mycobacterium tuberculosis a slightly curved non - motile ,  aerobic ,  non - capsulated and non - spore forming strains of mycobacteria .
abnormal increase in blood pressure .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against the nmda  ( n - methyl - d - aspartate )  - type glutamate receptor .
the presence of an antibody in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  that is directed against the organism's own cells or tissues .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  that react against the nmda  ( n - methyl - d - aspartate )  - type glutamate receptor .
this sign is created by a nonenhancing thrombus in the dural sinus surrounded by triangular enhancing dura as seen on cross - section .
this sign represents thickening and enhancement of the dura mater in continuity with a mass ,  which on mr images ,  gives the appearance of a tail arising from the mass .
bifrontal flattening of the fetal head as observed by prenatal ultrasonographic examination ,  an appearance that is said to resemble a lemon .
a tram - track sign is composed of two enhancing areas of tumor separated from each other by the negative defect of the optic nerve .
a type of tubercular infection located outside of the lung ,  which is the most common location of tuberculosis .
elevated n - acetylaspartic acid  ( naa )  in urine .
an abnormally increased concentration of n - acetylaspartic acid in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of n - acetylaspartic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
repeated episodes of a localized ,  painful cutaneous eruption related to reactivation of varicella zoster virus  ( vzv )  and characterized by a characteristic rash in one or two adjacent dermatomes .
abnormally increased prominence of the fat pad underneath the heal .
an increase in the level of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid in the urine .
deviation from the normal quantity of base excess ,  defined as the amount of strong acid  ( in millimoles per liter )  that needs to be added in vitro to 1 liter of fully oxygenated whole blood to return a blood sample to standard conditions  ( ph of 7 .40 ,  pco2 of 40 mm hg ,  and temperature of 37 degrees c )  .
an inflammatory process in skin caused by an exogenous agent that directly or indirectly injure the skin .
an infection with nontuberculous mycobacteria that affects multiple body sites .
ultra - low vision but with retained ability to identify a moving object  ( typically hand motion at distance of 30 cm )  .
ultra - low vision but with retained ability to perceive the difference between light and dark .
ultra - low vision but with retained ability to perceive the difference between light and dark .
ultra - low vision with complete lack of light and form perception .
an increase in polyclonal immunoglobulins resulting from many different plasma cells .
an increase in circulating immunoglobulins characterized by two or more bands in serum electrophoresis but not the broad diffuse band that characterizes a polyclonal increase in circulating immunoglobulins .
an increase in circulating immunoglobulins characterized by a single band in serum electrophoresis but not the broad diffuse band that characterizes a polyclonal increase in circulating immunoglobulins .
a type of monoclonal elevation of igg in which the involved immunoglobulin has a normal structure with a light and heavy chain .
a type of monoclonal elevation of igg in which the involved immunoglobulin has an abnormal structure with a light chain but not a heavy chain .
a type of monoclonal elevation of igg in which the involved immunoglobulin has an abnormal structure with a heavy chain but not a light chain .
a type of monoclonal elevation of igg in which the involved immunoglobulin has an abnormal structure with a kappa light chain but not a heavy chain .
a type of monoclonal elevation of igg in which the involved immunoglobulin has an abnormal structure with a lambda light chain but not a heavy chain .
an elevation of circulating igg level predominantly related to an elevation of one of the four igg subclasses .
an abnormally increased concentration of the igg3 subtype in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of the igg1 subtype in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of the igg2 subtype in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of the igg4 subtype in the blood circulation .
warts affecting the skin in the genital area  ( peniile shaft ,  scrotum ,  vagina ,  or labia majora )  .
the presence of free monoclonal kappa immunoglobulin light chains in the urine .
the presence of free monoclonal lambda immunoglobulin light chains in the urine .
any deviation from the normal concentration of mannose - binding protein in the blood circulation .
an abnormal reduction below the normal concentration of mannose - binding protein in the blood circulation .
an abnormal elevation above the normal concentration of mannose - binding protein in the blood circulation .
an elevated concentration of procalcitonin in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal cell count per volume of granulocytes in the blood circulation .
an increased count of granulocytes in the peripheral blood circulation .
an abnormally elevated concentration of globulins in the blood .
an abnormally reduced concentration of globulins in the blood .
excessive ,  increased hair growth located in the region of the forehead and temple .
an abnormal appearance or structure of the ring of pigmented skin that surrounds the nipple .
the areola  ( ring of pigmented skin surrounding the nipple )  is filled out so as to produce a rounded shape .
information about close relatives of an individual who is the proband of a study or who is being investigated with the goal of identifying a medical diagnosis .
a close blood relative had cancer .
a close blood relative had heart disease .
health status of a family member with respect to the disease being investigated in a proband .
this term applies to a family member who is diagnosed with the same condition as the individual who is the primary focus of investigation  ( the proband )  .
this term applies to a family member in whom the diagnosis that is the primary focus of investigation is excluded .
no history of any serious disease ,  including the disease being investigated in the proband .
episodic fever that recurs at regular intervals .
episodic fever that recurs at irregular intervals .
a stroke related to a small infarct  ( 2 - 20 mm in diameter )  in the deep cerebral white matter ,  basal ganglia ,  or pons ,  that is presumed to result from the occlusion of a single small perforating artery supplying the subcortical areas of the brain .
infection with staphylococcus aureus resistant to the antibiotic methicillin  ( mrsa )  .
cystic collection  ( sac - like ,  fluid containing pocket of membranous tissue )  located in the interhemispheric fissure ,  with or without communication with the ventricular system .
formation of one or more fibrous bands within the temporomandibular joint  ( tmj )  with resulting limitation of movement of the tmj .
an abnormally elevated concentration of 11 - deoxycortisol in the urine .
an abnormally elevated concentration or amount of 11 - deoxycorticosterone in the urine .
an abnormally elevated concentration or amount of 11 - deoxytetrahydrocorticosterone the urine .
an increase in circulating igm characterized by two or more bands in serum electrophoresis but not the broad diffuse band that characterizes a polyclonal increase .
a heterogeneous increase in iga mmunoglobulins characterized by a diffuse band on serum electrophoresis .
an increase in circulating iga characterized by two or more bands in serum electrophoresis but not the broad diffuse band that characterizes a polyclonal increase in circulating immunoglobulins .
an increase in circulating iga characterized by one predominant band in serum electrophoresis but not the broad diffuse band that characterizes a polyclonal increase in circulating immunoglobulins .
an increase in circulating ige characterized by one predominant band in serum electrophoresis but not the broad diffuse band that characterizes a polyclonal increase in circulating immunoglobulins .
an increase in circulating ige characterized by two or more bands in serum electrophoresis but not the broad diffuse band that characterizes a polyclonal increase in circulating immunoglobulins .
a heterogeneous increase in ige mmunoglobulins characterized by a diffuse band on serum electrophoresis .
an abnormal spirometry test result .
an abnormal reduction in the amount of air a person can expel following maximal insipiration .
upturned concavity of toenails .
an abnormal increased in the amount of the carbohydrate antigen 19 - 9 ,  a recognizable sialo - ganglioside in the blood circulation .
lichen amyloidosis presents with multiple localized or rarely generalized ,  hyperpigmented grouped papules with a predilection for the shins ,  calves ,  ankles ,  and dorsa of the feet and thighs .
a type of cutaneous amyloidosis that is characterized by hyperpigmented patches with indefinite margins composed of grayish brown macules ,  often with a reticulated or rippled appearance .
a type of cutaneous amyloidosis that is characterized clinically by waxy ,  purpuric plaques and nodules and histologically by amyloid deposits in the dermis and subcutaneous tissue .
a increased concentration of serine in the urine .
a increased concentration of sulfocysteine in the urine .
increased level of phenylalanine in urine .
increased level of methionine in urine .
increased level of leucine in urine .
a reduction in the maximum expiratory flow per minute ,  which can be used to measure how fast a subject can exhale as well as to judge the strength of the expiratory muscles and the condition of the large airways .
an abnormal reduction in the amount of air a person can expel following maximal insipiration ,  with the test being performed before the administration of a bronchodilating medication .
an abnormal reduction in the amount of air a person can expel following maximal insipiration ,  with the test being performed after the administration of a bronchodilating medication .
an abnormal reduction in the amount of air a person can forcefully expel in one second ,  with the test being performed after the administration of a bronchodilating medication .
a reduction compared to the predicted value of the forced expiratory flow over the middle one - half of the fvc ;  the average flow from the point at which 25% of the fvc has been exhaled to the point at which 75% of the fvc has been exhaled .
a reduction compared to the predicted value of the forced expiratory flow over the middle one - half of the fvc ;  the average flow from the point at which 25% of the fvc has been exhaled to the point at which 75% of the fvc has been exhaled .
a reduction compared to the predicted value of the forced expiratory flow over the middle one - half of the fvc ;  the average flow from the point at which 25% of the fvc has been exhaled to the point at which 75% of the fvc has been exhaled .
an abnormally elevated concentration of corticosterone in the blood .
an abnormally reduced concentration of corticosterone in the blood .
applied to a sign or symptom that is worsened by ingestion of aspirin .
a positive result of the direct antiglobulin test  ( dat )  ,  a method of demonstrating the presence of antibody or complement bound to red blood cell  ( rbc )  membranes by the use of anti - human globulin to form a visible agglutination reaction .
any deviation from the normal level of growth hormone  ( gh )  in the blood circulation .
an abnormally low blood ph  ( usually defined as less than 7 .35 )  .
an abnormally high blood ph  ( usually defined as 7 .41 or above )  .
abo phenotype a ,  corresponding to the genotype ao or aa .
an increased concentration of isoleucine in the urine .
an increased count in the peripheral blood of cells that are precursors to mature circulating blood cells such as neutrophiles ,  monocytes ,  lymphocutes ,  and erythrocytes .
the duffy blood group system is based on the presence of a glycoprotein termed fy that is on the surface of erythrocytes and some other cells .
presence of the duffy fya antigen .
presence of the duffy fyb antigen .
presence of antibodies against beta 2 glycoprotein i in the circulation .
an increased concentration in the urine of alpha - 1 - acid glycoprotein  ( agp )  ,  also known as orosomucoid  ( orm )  .
hypersensitivity that is observed within 1 hr of exposures .
the cardinal symptom is severely pruritic skin lesions .
in response to the spring sun distinct inflamed reddened skin develops on the ears ,  nose ,  cheeks ,  fingers ,  backs of the hands ,  and the lower arms ,  on which blisters with serous or hemorrhagic content develop .
inheritance of both homologues of a chromosome pair from the same parent .
a type of uniparental disomy in which the two different chromosomes  ( or chromosome segments )  of the same parent are transmitted .
a type of uniparental disomy in which the two identical chromosomes  ( or chromosome segments )  of the same parent are transmitted .
any deviation from the normal concentration of transferrin in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of transferrin in the blood circulation .
an abnormally decreased concentration of transferrin in the blood circulation .
nodules of heterotopia along the ventricular walls .
a large mass of heterotopia in a laminar configuration along the ventricular walls .
heterotopia that forms a continuous wavy line along the ventricular wall .
a form of heterotopia were the mislocalized gray matter is located deep within the white matter .
solid nodular heterotopia situated in the region of the peritrigonal optic pathway posterior to the deep gray nuclei .
subcortical heterotopia consisting of a bilateral and symmetric single continuous ,  undulating ribbon - like layer of gray matter located in the frontal ,  parietal and occipital lobes .
subcortical heterotopia extending along the mesial aspect of the lateral ventricles ,  with direct connection to mesial polymicrogyria - like cortex at the anterior and posterior limits of the heterotopia .
large subcortical heterotopia of variable morphology wiht streaks and swirls .
linear heterotopia spanning from the cerebral mantle from the pia to the ependyma .
an increased concentration of citrulline in the urine .
an abnormal gyral pattern characterized by abnormalities of sulcal depth or orientation .
an abnormal gyral pattern characterized by abnormalities of sulcal depth or orientation but with a normal thickness of the cortex .
an abnormal gyral pattern characterized by abnormalities of sulcal depth or orientation and a thickened cortex intermediate between pachygyria and polymicrogyria .
a increased concentration of aspartic acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of asparagine in the urine .
an abnormal bulge or lump in a testis .
an increased level of phosphoserine in the urine .
a type of perisylvian polymicrogyria that largely affects one side of the brain .
a type of perisylvian polymicrogyria that affects both sides of the brain .
a breast lump is any discrete mass in a breast noticed by the patient ,  significant other ,  or physician .
a form of subcortical heterotopia with mislocalized gray matter within the white matter .it is defined as longitudinal bands of gray matter located deep to the cerebral cortex and separated from it by a thin layer of normal appearing white matter .
symmetric generalized polymicrogyria with no obvious gradient or region of maximal severity ;  may have abnormal high signal in white matter .
longitudinal bands of gray matter located deep to the cerebral cortex and separated from it by a thin layer of normal appearing white matter visible along the occipital cortex .
longitudinal bands of gray matter located deep to the cerebral cortex and separated from it by a thin layer of normal appearing white matter visible in the frontal and temporal lobes .
longitudinal bands of gray matter located deep to the cerebral cortex and separated from it by a thin layer of normal appearing white matter visible along the whole brain .
the presence of an elevated amount of 5 - hydroxylysine in the urine .
polymicrogyria in parasagittal and mesial aspects of parieto - occipital cortex .
a localized dilation of microvasculature formed due to disruption of the internal elastic lamina of a retinal capillary blood vessel .
periglomerular fibrosis is defined as glomeruli with open capillaries ,  but lamellated ,  frequently wrinkled ,  bowman capsular basement membrane and circumferential layers of interstitial - type collagen around ,  within ,  or between the usually thickened ,  frequently lamellated ,  bowman capsule basement membrane .
an abnormal concentration of an hdl subfraction ,  which can be determined by methods such as electrophoresis followed by densitometric determination of the areas under the peaks .
any deviation from the normal concentration of the hdl2a subfraction in the blood circulation .
an elevation above the normal concentration of the hdl2a subfraction in the blood circulation .
a reduction below the normal concentration of the hdl2a subfraction in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of the hdl2a subfraction in the blood circulation .
a reduction below the normal concentration of the hdl2b subfraction in the blood circulation .
an elevation above the normal concentration of the hdl2b subfraction in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of the hdl3a subfraction in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of the hdl3b subfraction in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of the hdl3c subfraction in the blood circulation .
an elevation above the normal concentration of the hdl3a subfraction in the blood circulation .
a reduction below the normal concentration of the hdl3a subfraction in the blood circulation .
an elevation above the normal concentration of the hdl3b subfraction in the blood circulation .
a reduction below the normal concentration of the hdl3b subfraction in the blood circulation .
an elevation above the normal concentration of the hdl3c subfraction in the blood circulation .
a reduction below the normal concentration of the hdl3c subfraction in the blood circulation .
separation of the umbilical cord occurs at an abnormally late timepoint .
an infection of the umbilicus and / or surrounding tissues occurring in the neonatal period .
any deviation from the normal concentration of c - reactive protein in the blood circulation .
an abnormal decrease of the c - reactive protein level in serum .
abnormally increased variability in the size of platelets .
an abnormally increased sensitivity to airborn particles .
abo phenotype b ,  corresponding to the genotype bo or bb .
abo phenotype ab ,  corresponding to the genotype ab .
abo phenotype o ,  corresponding to the genotype oo .
in a medical encounter ,  the physician generally will interview the patient about his or her current problem ,  and may perform additional testing .
the affected individual has received an organ transplant previous to the current medical encounter .
a round circumscribed space within a lung that is surrounded by an epithelial or fibrous wall of variable thickness .
pulmonary bullae are rounded focal regions of emphysema with a thin wall which measure more than 1 cm in diameter .
a bleb is a small gas - containing space within the visceral pleura or in the subpleural lung ,  not larger than 1 cm in diameter .
a condition in which production of hydrochloric acid in the stomach is absent .
an abnormal structure or appearance of hemidesmosomes ,  multiprotein complexes that facilitate the stable adhesion of basal epithelial cells to the underlying basement membrane .
detection of arsenic in the blood circulation .
flat ,  distinct ,  discolored area of oral mucosal membrane less than 1 cm wide not associated with a change in the thickness or texture of the affected mucosal membrane .
oral melanoacanthoma usually presents as an asymptomatic ,  ill - defined ,  rapidly enlarging ,  macular pigmentation .
abnormal coloring of the lip ,  whereby the lip discolored ,  blotchy ,  or darker or lighter than normal .
flat ,  distinct ,  discolored area on the lip less than 1 cm wide not associated with a change in the thickness or texture .
reduced level of cd18 on the granulocyte surface .
a type of lissencephaly whereby upon neuropathological examination the cortical plate is severely disorganized with a festooned - like pattern and with neither lamination nor clear demarcation between white and grey matter .
pachygyria - agyria spectrum whereby at neuropathological examination the cortical plate consists of a two - three layered organization made up of a molecular layer ,  a relatively thin wavy layer with a higher cellular density and a third layer with lower cellularity .
a reduction in diameter and volume of the central cavity of bone where red or yellow bone marrow is located .
any deviation from the normal level of the enzyme phosphoribosyl pyrophosphatesynthetase ,  which catalyzes the synthesis of pp - ribose - p from atp and ribose - 5 - phosphate .
abnormally reduced level of the enzyme phosphoribosyl pyrophosphatesynthetase ,  which catalyzes the synthesis of pp - ribose - p from atp and ribose - 5 - phosphate .
an elevation beyond the normal concentration of palmitate  ( palmitic acid )  in the blood circulation .
a reduction below the normal concentration of fibronectin the the blood circulation .
underdevelopment of the ureter .
muscular projections that protrude into the lumen of the bladder ,  criss - crossing the walls of the bladder on its inner surface .
lack of formation  ( congenital absence )  of the olfactory bulb .
information about past pregnancies including gravidity  ( number of times a woman has been pregnant ,  regardless of the outcome )  ,  parity  ( total number of births )  ,  gestational age of births ,  and medical conditions related to past pregnancies .
one or more previous pregnancies resulted in stillbirth ,  defined as death of a fetus in the later stages of pregnancy  ( definitions in the literature vary ,  with cut - offs ranging from 20 to 28 weeks gestation )  .
presence of autoantibodies against the asialoglycoprotein receptor  ( asgpr )  in the blood circulation .
the hair shaft has a beaded appearance due to the presence of elliptical nodes that have the diameter of normal hair and are medullated ,  regularly separated by internodes that are narrow ,  devoid of medulla and are the site of fracture .
polymicrogyria affecting one or multiple small areas of the cerebral cortex .
an abnormal concentration of urobilinogen in the urine .
an abnormally reduced concentration of urobilinogen in the urine .
an abnormal concentration of vitamin b6 in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of vitamin b6 in the blood circulation .
protrusion of the arachnoid and dura through spinal foramina .
it is estimated that about 40 - 70 percent of human embryos produced in vitro fertilization  ( ivf )  and intracytoplasmic sperm injection  ( icsi )  are viable embryos ,  whereas others arrest at different early stages of development .
an increased amount of beta - aminoisobutyric acid in the urine .
any deviation from the normal concentration of circulating alpha polypeptide of glycoprotein hormones  ( ncbi gene 1081 )  .
an reduced concentration of circulating alpha polypeptide of glycoprotein hormones  ( ncbi gene 1081 )  .
abnormal level of metabolite or other abnormal analyte result in a stool test .
an elevated concentration of sodium in feces .
abnormal concentration of feces as assessed by the total number of solute particles per kilogram .
abnormally high concentration of feces as assessed by the total number of solute particles per kilogram .
abnormally low concentration of feces as assessed by the total number of solute particles per kilogram .
any deviation from the normal ph of feces .
abnormally high fecal ph ,  i .e . ,  abnormal alkalinity of feces .
abnormally low fecal ph ,  i .e . ,  abnormal acidity of feces .
an increased level of the non - proteinogenic amino acid argininosuccinic acid in the blood circulation .
presence of antibodies in the serum that react against myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein .
an abnormally high concentration of trypsinogen in the blood circulation .
a deviation from the normal proportion of terminal to vellus hairs .
an increased proportion of terminal hairs compared to vellus hairs .
a terminal:vellus ratio under 4:1 is characteristic of androgenetic alopecia .
the presence of abnormally large granules in neutrophils .
applied to a sign or symptom that is worsened by smoking tobacco products .
applied to a sign or symptom that is worsened by taking contraceptive medication .
applied to a sign or symptom that is worsened by taking barbituates .
applies to a sign or symptom that is improved or made more bearable by drinking alcohol  ( ethanol )  .
an electric shock - like sensation that occurs on flexion of the neck .
pharyngeal spasms provoked by an attempt to drink .
alien limb phenomenon refers to involuntary motor activity of a limb in conjunction with the feeling of estrangement from that limb .
fasciculations affecting the tongue muscle and the musculature of the chin .
habitual insertion of foreign bodies into bodily orifices .
onychotillomania is characterized by the compulsive or irresistible urge in patients to pick at ,  pull off ,  or harmfully bite or chew their nails .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to a tendon .
four - vessel umbilical cord containing two arteries and two veins .
a congenital developmental anomaly characterized by the presence of two  ( instead of the normal one )  lacrimal punctum on one or both sides of the face .
a type of invasive dermatophyte infection of the deep dermis characterized by extensive dermal infiltration by fungal elements .
infection that extends deeply into the dermins by dermatophytes ,  fungi that typically cause different types of superficial infection  ( tinea )  or skin ,  hair ,  or nails .
majocchi's granuloma  ( mg )  is an inflammatory and granulomatous ,  dermatophytic infection characterized by a granulomatous inflammation around the hair follicle .
a type of invasive dermatophyte infection characterized by vascular involvement and dissemination to other organs .
burr cells ,  also known as echinocytes ,  have a speculated border over the entire cell surface .
reduced strength of the masseter muscle ,  whose primary function is to elevate the mandible and thereby raise the mandible towards the maxilla ,  closing the jaw .
involuntary ,  tic - like movements consisted of crossing both arms across the chest and tensing the body or clasping the hands and squeezing the arms to the sides .
applies to a sign or symptom that is improved or made more bearable by treatment with immunosuppresive medication .
an abnormal increase in the thickness  ( diameter )  of a tendon .
length of the thumb is greater than normal .
applied to a sign or symptom that is worsened by treatment with an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor such as tensilon  ( edrophonium )  or pyridostigmine  ( mestinon )  .
applies to a sign or symptom that is improved or made more bearable by an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor such as mestinon or tensilon .
the position of the umbilicus  ( belly button )  is abnormally low  ( inferior )  .
an increased amount of 4 - hydroxybutyric acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of gamma - aminobutyric acid  ( gaba )  in the blood circulation .
reduced level of succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase  ( ssadh )  .
abnormally increased level of 4 - hydroxybutyric acid in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
an increased level of acetone in the blood circulation .
applied to a sign or symptom that is worsened by ingestion of food containing a methylxanthine compound  ( for instance ,  coffee ,  caffeine ,  chocolate )  .
applies to an abnormality that is situated in the neck .
an abnormally elevated number of lymph nodes in an anatomical region .
a delay in healing of a fracture past the expected duration .
a groove or crease on the shins  ( pretibial ,  i .e . ,  over the shin bone )  .
applies to an abnormality that is situated in extensor surface of the joint .
applies to an abnormality that is situated in flexor surface of the joint .
knuckle pads are benign fibrofatty subcutaneous pads located over the proximal interphalangeal  ( pip )  joints that can be mistaken for arthritis .
applied to a sign or symptom that is worsened by being pregnant .
expectoration  ( coughing up )  of a broncholith .
applies to an abnormality that mainly affects the small joints ,  including fingers ,  toes ,  interphalangeal ,  metacarpophalangeal ,  metatarsophalangeal ,  wrists ,  ankles ,  vertebrae ,  and neck .
involuntary tightening of the abdominal musculature that occurs in response to touching the abdomen to avoid pain .
a voluntary contraction of the abdominal wall musculature to avoid pain .
an abnormal decrease of the pressure within the eye .
abnormally elevated placental thickness .
persistence beyond the normal age  ( roughly the first half of the first year of life )  of the asymmetric tonic neck reflex  ( atnr )  ,  which is an easily elicited primitive reflex in the immediate newborn period .
howell - jolly bodies are small ,  intra - erythrocytic remnants of erythrocyte nuclei .
enlarged ,  bulging blood vessels in and around the anus often associated with rectal bleeding ,  itching ,  and pain .
an anomaly of the rhythmic throbbing of an artery that reflects the widening of the artery as blood flows through it and is caused by successive contractions of the heart .
a diminution in the amplitude  ( strength )  of the pulse such that the examiner has difficulty feeling the pulse .
the pulsation of an artery where the pulse is taken  ( e .g .
increased amplitude  ( strength )  of the pulse .
persistent blue color of the skin that surrounds the mouth .
a past medical history of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation involving myeloablative chemoradiotherapy followed by stem cell rescue with autologous or human leukocyte antigen  ( hla )  - matched stem cells derived from a donor .
sperm cells lacking flagella .
sperm cells with abnormally short flagella .
sperm cells whose flagella are twisted  ( coiled )  .
decreased size of the head of sperm .
sperm with cigar - shaped heads that gradually dimish in diameter  ( taper )  .
presence of teardrop - shaped red blood cells .
inflammation of the ileum .
enlarged ,  oval - shaped erythrocytes  ( red blood cells )  .
an increased lipid content in the urine .
distal tubular epithelial cells in which globotriaosylceramide  ( gb3 )  has accumulated .
lacunes are infarcts less than 15 mm in diameter in the cortical white matter or in the corona radiata ,  internal capsule ,  centrum semiovale ,  thalamus ,  basal ganglia ,  or pons .
an increase in death of oocytes ,  the female germ cell  ( egg cell )  ,  which can be observed clinically in the setting of in vitro fertilization .
a deviation from the normal level of a nucleobase in the urine .
increased levels of urinary cytidine ,  a pyrimidine nucleoside in which cytosine is attached to ribofuranose via a beta - n1 glycosidic bond .
increased levels of urinary uridine ,  a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of uracil attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n1 glycosidic bond .
a reduction in the concentration of 12 - hete in the blood circulation ,  a metabolite of arachidonic acid .
intracellular accumulation of the lipid - linked oligosaccharide intermediate man5glcnac2 - pp - dolichol .
presence of a predominant t cell clone .
an epithelial lined cyst filled with gelatinous material .
a benign focal growth composed of vascular tissue .
abnormal structure of the bulbus cordis ,  which is the single outflow tract of the heart during early embryogenesis .
any structural anomaly of the interstitium of the kidney .
accumulation of foam cells  ( fc )  in the interstitium of the kidney .
increased numbers of neutrophils in the interstitial tissues of the kidney .
increased numbers of eosinophils in the interstitial tissues of the kidney .
increased numbers of plasma cells in the interstitial tissues of the kidney .
the presence of birefringent calcium -  and oxalate deposits in interstitial cells of the kidney .
inability to perform purposeful  ( learned )  movements with the hand upon command ,  even though the command is understood and there is a willingness to perform the movement .
infiltration of the renal tubular epithelium by lymphocytes .
infiltration of the renal tubular epithelium by neutrophils .
deposition of hemosiderin  ( a golden - brown ,  granular pigment derived from ferritin )  in interstitial cells of the kidney .
congenital absence of the right - sided diaphragm .
a type of acelluar casts with positive myoglobin staining a that have a surface composed of granules ,  which can vary in size .
naked basement membranes without tubular epithelium .
tubular cross section with a space between the basolateral aspect of tubular epithelium and its basement membrane ;  classified as global when at least 2 / 3 circumference of the tubular cross section are involved and segmental when less than 2 / 3 are involved .
tubular cross section with intracytoplasmic vacuoles in at least one tubular epithelial cell .
at least one free floating cell in the tubular lumen without attachment to adjacent cells or basement membrane in a tubular cross section without detachment .
tubular cross section with round / irregular cytoplasmic protrusion ,  shaped like the greek capital letter omega  ( or it may be more vertically elongated omega )  ,  pinched off from apical membrane without apparent closure of the lumen ,  involving over 50 percent of the tubular cells in cross section .
any structural anomaly of the renal tubular epithelial cells  ( rtec )  ,  a layer of cells in the outer layer of the renal tubule .
tubular epithelium with round strongly pas - positive cytoplasmic droplet material in at least one tubular epithelial cell .
tubular epithelial cells with greater than 3 nuclei in a single epithelial cell ,  often overlapping with each other in a single plane of view .
tubular epithelium with nucleoli clearly visible at 100 - fold magnification .
tubular cross section with flattened tubular cell cytoplasm  ( height unequivocally less than width )  ,  with complete loss of brush border involving greater than 50 percent of the tubular cells in cross section ,  resulting in an apparent increase in the size of the lumen ,  without the presence of casts .
tubular epithelial cells in any mitotic phase ,  identified by distinctively visible chromosome in either prophase ,  metaphase ,  anaphase or telophase configuration .
at least one tubular epithelial cell with average sized cytoplasmic area and a nuclear area 3 times greater than average sized nuclei .
presence of increased amount of lipofuscin ,  a yellow ,  granular cytoplasmic pigment in the renal tubules .
tubular cross section lined entirely by tubular epithelium with convex apical cell membrane  ( i .e . ,  cells are shaped like an upside down u ,  and lack a distinct smaller protrusion seen in blebbing as defined above )  resulting in apparent complete closure of the lumen .
a type of renal tubular atrophy characterized by a thyroid - like appearance ,  with small round tubules with markedly flattened ,  simplified epithelium and uniform intratubular casts .
a type of renal tubular atrophy characterized by endocrine - like appearance of tubules ,  which are small and have narrow lumina ,  clear cells ,  and relatively thin basement membranes .
renal tubulointerstitial infiltration of mycobacteria identified on acid - fast or fite stains .
tubular epithelial cells containing cytoplasmic hemosiderin ,  brown - golden granular pigment .
a hallux  ( big toe )  with three phalanges in a single ,  proximo - distal axis .
deposition of amyloid in the interstitial tissue of the kidney .
amyloid deposits located in the glomeruli in a focal segmental ,  diffuse segmental or diffuse global fashion .
a diffusion abnormality observed in diffusion - weighted magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  of the brain .
accumulation of an immunoglobulin in the interstitial tissue of the kidney .
a focal collection of 20 or more red blood cells within the interstitium ,  that is irregular in shape  ( i .e . ,  collections do not conform to the shape of tubules or capillary networks )  ,  without surrounding endothelium or tubular epithelium ,  and is in an area of intact core .
cell death  ( necrosis )  affecting one or more parts of the kidney .
a perinephric abscess is a collection of suppurative material in the perinephric space  ( i .e . ,  the connective and adipose tissues surrounding the kidney )  .
an encapsulated collection of pus and necrotic material within the renal parenchyma .
at least one tubular cross section with all tubular epithelial nuclei having a chromatin pattern resembling normal mature lymphocytes .
dilatation  ( expansion beyond the normal dimension )  of the cavity  ( lumen )  of tubules of the kidney .
urinary casts are formed in the distal convoluted tubule or the collecting duct by solidification of protein in the lumen of the kidney tubules .
a type of acelluar intratubular casts that have a surface composed of granules ,  which can vary in size .
casts that contain red blood cells and are located within the tubuli of the kidney .
intratubular casts composed of vancomycin aggregates and uromodulin .
casts that contain white blood cells and are located within the tubuli of the kidney .
intratubular crystals composed of 2 , 8 - dihydroxyadenine are small needle - shaped brownish crystals that are highly birefringent under polarized light and black by jones methenamine silver .
the presence of casts containing immunoglobulin light chains within the lumina of the renal tubules .
a type of acelluar intratubular casts that have a surface composed of granules ,  which can vary in size .
premature death of cells in the renal papilla  ( the apex of a renal pyramid which projects into the cavity of a calyx of the kidney and through which collecting ducts discharge urine )  .
a type of acellular urinary cast located within the distal tubules of the kidney and that is composed only of tamm - horsfall glycoprotein .
casts located within the tubuli of the kidney and that contain myoglobin .
infiltration of microorganisms into renal tubulointerstitial tissues as observed by appropriate staining procedures ,  e .g . ,  bacteria on a bacterial stain  ( brown and hopps )  or fungi on pas or silver stain .
infiltration of viruses into renal tubulointerstitial tissues as demonstrated on renal biopsy by viral inclusions which can be seen on routine stains or with immunohistochemistry .
edema is characterized but the acute swelling of the stroma ,  with expansion of the interstitial space without the a concurrent increase in interstitial cells or extracellular matrix .
an abnormally increased amount of mevanolate in the urine .
an increased concentration of cystine within white blood cells .
an increased concentration of c - c motif chemokine ligand 18 in the blood circulation .
interstital aggregates of histiciocytes ,  occasionally multinucleated with associated lymphoplasmacytic and occcasionally eosinophilic inflammation .
an organized collection of histiocytes  ( specifically macrophages )  localized in the interstitial tissue of the kidney .
interstital aggregates of histiciocytes ,  occasionally multinucleated with associated lymphoplasmacytic and occcasionally eosinophilic inflammation .
abnormal accumulation of a metabolite ,  protein ,  or protein - derived substance in the interstitial region of the kidney .
presence of interstitial mononuclear leukocytes ,  i .e . ,  white blood ceclls with a single round nucleus ,  including lymphocytes and monocytes but not including granulocytes  ( which have multilobed nuclei )  .
inflammation of interstitial tissues of the kidney consisting of foamy macrophages admixed with plasma cells ,  lymphocytes and neutrophils and occasional giant cells .
increased apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  of tubular epithelial cells .
the presence of cuboidal to columnar epithelium  ( height greater than width )  lining the bowman capsule ,  in an absence of adjacent segmental sclerosis ,  crescents ,  or collapsing variant of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis ;  scored as present or absent in at least one glomerulus .
a type of flat - foot characterized by hindfoot abductovalgus ,  metatarsus adductus ,  and achilles tendon shortening .
increased concentration of glial fibrillary acidic protein in cerebrospinal fluid .
increased concentration of chitinase - 3 - like protein 1 in cerebrospinal fluid .
increased concentration of chitotriosidase 1 in cerebrospinal fluid .
an abnormal increase in the molar ratio of lactate to pyruvate in the blood circulation .
flow - mediated dilatation is a noninvasive tests of endothelial function that leverages ultrasound to measure arterial diameter and its response to an increase in shear stress ,  which normally causes endothelium - dependent dilatation .
a reduced concentration of tocopherol in fat tissue .
a seizure lasting 30 minutes without fully regaining consciousness ,  provoked by fever  ( temperature greater than 38 .0 degrees celcius )  at the time of seizure - onset ,  without a prior history of afebrile seizure and with no evidence of an acute central nervous system infection or insult .
an abnormal increase in the level of globotriaosylsphingosine  ( lyso - gb3 )  in the blood circulation .
status epilepticus with prominent motor signs during the prolonged seizure .
a type of status epilepticus without prominent motor symptoms and in the presence of coma .
a type of status epilepticus characterized by a prolonged bilateral tonic - clonic seizure ,  or repeated bilateral tonic - clonic seizures without recovery between . \ ncomment:  \ nsource:  \ nseealso: tonic - clonic status epilepticus
a type of bilateral convulsive seizure of generalized onset that is sufficiently prolonged  ( or repeated without recovery )  to reach the threshold for status epilepticus .
a type of bilateral convulsive seizure of focal onset  ( which could be with awareness or impaired awareness ,  either motor or non -  motor )  that is sufficiently prolonged  ( or repeated without recovery )  to reach the threshold for status epilepticus .
status epilepticus with focal motor signs originating within networks limited to one hemisphere .
a type of focal motor status epilepticus characterized by continuous neck or body rotation and conjugate gaze deviation in a direction contralateral to the responsible epileptic focus .
a type of focal motor status epilepticus characterized by repeated motor ,  typically clonic events repeatedly affecting the same segments of the body with spread of clonic movements through contiguous body parts unilaterally ,  and repeating over a sufficiently prolonged period to reach a diagnosis of status epilepticus .
status epilepticus characterized by continuous hyperkinetic proximal limb or axial muscles producing irregular sequential ballistic movements such as pedaling pelvic thrusting ,  thrashing ,  or rocking movements .
a type of motor status epilepticus with repeating bilateral sudden brief  ( less than 100 ms )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography .
a type of myoclonic status epilepticus in the absence of coma .
a type of myoclonic status epilepticus in the presence of coma .
tonic status epilepticus is a type of status epilepticus characterized by focal or bilateral limb stiffening or elevation ,  which may be electrographically generalized or focal .
a type of status epilepticus without prominent motor symptoms in the absence of coma .
autonomic status epilepticus is a type of non - convulsive status epilepticus without coma with prominent autonomic features regardless of whether it is electrographically generalized or focal .
focal non - convulsive status epilepticus without coma is a type of status epilepticus without prominent motor signs ,  which is electrographically focal .
a cutaneous wound is a defined as a disruption of normal anatomic structure and function of the skin that occured owing to an injury of the skin .
a cutaneous wound that is proceeding through an orderly and timely reparative process that results in sustained restoration of the anatomic and functional integrity of the skin .
a cutaneous wound that has failed to proceed through the orderly and timely process to produce an atomic and functional integrity ,  or proceeded through the repair process without establishing a sustained anatomic and functional result .
a generalized motor seizure is a type of generalized - onset seizure with predominantly motor  ( involving musculature )  signs .
an eyelid myoclonia seizure is a type of generalized myoclonic seizure which may or may not be associated with loss of awareness .
a type of focal - onset seizure characterized by non - motor signs or symptoms  ( or behaviour arrest )  as its initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure involves an alteration in a cognitive function  ( which can be a deficit or a positive phenomenon such as forced thought )  ,  which occurs at seizure onset .
a focal aware cognitive seizure during which awareness is retained throughout the seizure .
a focal non - motor seizure in which awareness is retained throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with auditory agnosia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by auditory agnosia as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure with memory impairment characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by transient memory impairment as the initial semiological manifestation whilst other cognitive functions and awareness are preserved at seizure onset .
a focal cognitive seizure with dissociation characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by an experience of being disconnected from ,  though aware of ,  self or environment as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure with dyscalculia and or acalculia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by dyscalculia  /  acalculia as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by forced thinking as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by neglect as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by dyslexia  /  alexia as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by an alteration of actual perception involving visual ,  auditory ,  somatosensory ,  olfactory ,  and / or gustatory phenomena as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by receptive dysphasia  /  aphasia as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by memory phenomena such as feelings of familiarity  ( deja vu )  and unfamiliarity  ( jamais vu )  as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by conduction dysphasia  /  aphasia as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by dysgraphia  /  agraphia as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by left - right confusion as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by anomia as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by expressive dysphasia  /  aphasia as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by hallucination as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal cognitive seizure with illusion characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with forced thinking characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with left - right confusion characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with dyslexia  /  alexia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with anomia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with dysgraphia  /  agraphia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with receptive dysphasia  /  aphasia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a type of focal clonic seizure during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal motor seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal motor seizure with version characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal bilateral motor seizure characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a type of focal motor seizure  ( it commences in one hemisphere )  involving bilateral muscle groups rapidly at seizure onset .
a focal non - motor seizure characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal motor seizure with dystonia characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal motor seizure in which the initial semiological manifestation is the sustained contraction of both agonist and antagonist muscles producing athetoid or twisting movements ,  which produces abnormal postures .
a focal motor seizure with dysarthria  /  anarthria characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a type of focal motor seizure characterized by difficulty with articulation of speech ,  due to impaired coordination of muscles involved in speech sound production as the initial semiological manifestation .
a focal motor seizure characterized by weakness or complete paralysis of a muscle or group of muscles as the initial semiological manifestation .
a type of focal tonic seizure during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a focal motor seizure with dystonia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal tonic seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a type of focal clonic seizure during which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point in the seizure .
a focal hyperkinetic seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with agitation is characterized by the presence of psychomotor agitation as an expressed or observed emotion ,  at the outset of the seizure .
a focal atonic seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with pleasure is characterized by the presence of a positive emotional experience with pleasure ,  bliss ,  joy ,  enhanced personal well - being ,  heightened self - awareness or ecstasy .
a focal myoclonic seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a type of focal hypermotor seizure during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a focal motor seizure with paresis  /  paralysis characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal motor seizure with dysarthria  /  anarthria characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal emotional seizure during which awareness is retained throughout the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with anger in which awareness is retained throughout .
focal emotional seizure with anger is characterized by the presence of anger ,  as an expressed or observed emotion ,  at the outset of the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with paranoia is characterized by the presence of paranoia as an expressed or observed emotion at the outset of the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with anxiety ,  fear or panic as an expressed or observed emotion at the outset of the seizure ,  in which awareness is retained throughout .
focal emotional seizure with anxiety is characterized by the presence of anxiety ,  fear or panic as an expressed or observed emotion ,  at the outset of the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure characterised by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with paranoia in which awareness is retained throughout .
focal emotional seizure with pleasure in which awareness is retained throughout .
focal emotional seizure with crying  ( dacrystic ) in which awareness is retained throughout .
focal emotional seizure with agitation in which awareness is retained throughout .
focal emotional seizure with laughing in which awareness is retained throughout .
a focal emotional seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with pleasure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with anger in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with paranoia in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with laughing in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with crying in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal emotional seizure with anxiety ,  fear or panic as an expressed or observed emotion at the outset of the seizure ,  in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal emotional seizure with agitation in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal sensory seizure during which awareness is retained throughout the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure characterised by impaired awareness at some point within the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal hemiclonic seizure in which awareness is retained throughout .
a type of focal myoclonic seizure during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a seizure characterized by symptoms of dizziness ,  spinning ,  vertigo or sense of rotation as its first clinical manifestation .
a seizure characterized by sensations of feeling hot or cold as its first clinical manifestation .
a focal autonomic seizure with pallor  /  flushing characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterized by changes of the skin as the initial semiological feature .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterized by pupillary dilatation or contraction as the initial semiological feature .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterised by penile erection as the intial semiological feature .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterized by an urge to unripe or defecate as the initial semiological feature .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterized by changes in respiratory rate as the initial semiological feature .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterized by piloerection  ( bristling of hairs due to the involuntary contraction of small muscles at the base of hair follicles )  as the initial semiological feature .
a focal autonomic seizure with pupillary dilation  /  constriction characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
an autonomic seizure with hypoventilation  /  hyperventilation  /  altered respiration characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with erection characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterized by lacrimation as the initial semiological feature .
a focal autonomic seizure with piloerection  ( bristling of hairs due to the involuntary contraction of small muscles at the base of hair follicles )  characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a type of focal autonomic seizure characterized by changes in heart rate as the initial semiological feature .
a focal autonomic seizure with urge to urinate  /  defecate characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
an autonomic seizure with hypoventilation  /  hyperventilation  /  altered respiration characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with pallor  /  flushing characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with epigastric sensation  /  nausea  /  vomiting  /  other gastrointestinal phenomena characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with pupillary dilation  /  constriction characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with erection characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with urge to urinate  /  defecate characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with lacrimation characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with piloerection  ( bristling of hairs due to the involuntary contraction of small muscles at the base of hair follicles )  characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
an autonomic seizure with palpitations  /  tachycardia  /  bradycardia  /  asystole characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with epigastric sensation  /  nausea  /  vomiting  /  other gastrointestinal phenomena characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a migrating focal seizure is a seizure that involves different body parts ,  usually without overlap ,  in a consecutive manner so that the offset of a seizure in one part coincides with its onset in another ,  even shifting multiple times between the sides of the body .
a focal sensory seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal autonomic seizure with palpitations  /  tachycardia  /  bradycardia  /  asystole characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal behavior arrest seizure characterised by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal behavior arrest seizure characterised by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with anomia characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a tonic seizure is a type of motor seizure characterised by unilateral or bilateral limb stiffening or elevation ,  often with neck stiffening .
a focal cognitive seizure with receptive dysphasia  /  aphasia characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a myoclonic seizure is a type of motor seizure characterised by sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 ms )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  .
a generalized myoclonic - tonic - clonic seizure is a type of generalized motor seizure characterised by a single or multiple jerks of limbs bilaterally ,  followed by tonic and clonic phases .
a focal cognitive seizure with left - right confusion characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
seizures characterized by olfactory phenomena at onset  -  usually an odor ,  which is often unpleasant .
a focal cognitive seizure with neglect characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal hemiclonic seizure in which awareness is impaired at some point during the seizure .
a seizure characterized by symptoms of dizziness ,  spinning ,  vertigo or sense of rotation .
a focal cognitive seizure with memory impairment characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with dyscalculia  /  acalculia characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with dysgraphia  /  agraphia characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal sensory seizure with olfaction in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal sensory seizure with vestibular features in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal sensory seizure with visual features in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a seizure occurring within the neonatal period  ( 28 days beyond the full term date )  .
neonatal seizure is a seizure type that occurs in neonatal period and is characterized by an electrographic event with sudden ,  repetitive ,  evolving stereotyped waveforms with a beginning and an end .
neonatal electro - clinical seizure is an electrographic event occurring in neonatal period and coupled with a clinical manifestation .
a seizure characterized by a sensation in the head such as light - headedness or headache as its first clinical manifestation .
neonatal electrographic only seizure is an electrographic event with sudden ,  repetitive ,  evolving stereotyped waveforms with a beginning and an end ,  which is not associated with a clinical manifestation .
neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure with predominant motor features .
neonatal electro - clinical clonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure where the predominant motor feature is a regularly repeating jerking involving the same muscle groups ;  it can be symmetric or asymmetric .
neonatal electro - clinical myoclonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure where the predominant motor feature is sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 msec )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  .
neonatal multifocal myoclonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure where the predominant motor feature is sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 msec )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  wich occurs at multiple sites .
neonatal focal myoclonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure where the predominant motor feature is sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 msec )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  which occurs focally .
neonatal focal clonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical clonic seizure where the predominant motor feature is unilateral regularly repeating jerking involving the same muscle groups .
neonatal bilateral clonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical clonic seizure where the clonic jerking is bilateral .
neonatal focal clonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical clonic seizure where the predominant motor feature is a regularly repeating jerking involving the same muscle groups ,  which occurs at multiple sites .
neonatal electro - clinical tonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure where the predominant motor feature is a sustained increase in muscle tone ,  usually focal ,  that can be unilateral or bilateral ,  and lasting a few seconds to minutes .
neonatal electro - clinical non - motor autonomic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure with predominant features of autonomic alterations ,  involving cardiovascular ,  pupillary ,  gastrointestinal ,  sudomotor ,  vasomotor ,  and thermoregulatory functions .
neonatal electro - clinical non - motor seizure with behavior arrest is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure characterized by an arrest of activities ,  freezing ,  immobilization ,  with or without apnea and / or other autonomic manifestations .
neonatal focal tonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical tonic seizure with a focal sustained increase in muscle tone ,  lasting a few seconds to minutes .
neonatal electro - clinical sequential motor seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the predominant feature cannot be detected because of seizures presenting with a variety of clinical and electrographic signs ,  often changing lateralization within or between seizures .
focal neonatal electro - clinical sequential motor seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the predominant feature cannot be detected because of seizures presenting with a variety of clinical and electrographic focal signs ,  often changing lateralization within or between seizures .
multifocal neonatal electro - clinical sequential motor seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the predominant feature cannot be detected because of seizures presenting with a variety of clinical and electrographic multifocal signs .
neonatal bilateral symmetric tonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical tonic seizure where the sustained increase in muscle tone ,  lasting a few seconds to minutes ,  occurs at both sides of the body symmetrically .
neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure with automatism is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the electrographic event is correlated with a coordinated motor activity ,  typically oral ,  usually with impaired awarness ,  and in association with other features .
neonatal seizure with bilateral asymmetric automatism is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the electrographic event is correlated with coordinated motor activity ,  typically oral ,  usually with impaired awareness ,  occurring at both sides of the body asymmetrically .
neonatal bilateral asymmetric tonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical tonic seizure where the sustained increase in muscle tone ,  lasting a few seconds to minutes ,  occurs at both sides of the body but asymmetrically .
neonatal bilateral asymmetric myoclonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure where the predominant motor feature is sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 msec )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  wich occurs at both sides of the body asymmetrically .
a sudden flexion ,  extension ,  or mixed extension - flexion of predominantly proximal and truncal muscles that is usually more sustained than a myoclonic movement but not as sustained as a tonic seizure .
neonatal seizure with bilateral asymmetric automatisms is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the electrographic event is correlated with a coordinated motor activity ,  typically oral ,  usually with impaired awarness ,  occurring at one side of the body .
neonatal seizure with bilateral asymmetric automatism is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the electrographic event is correlated with a coordinated motor activity ,  typically oral ,  usually with impaired awarness ,  occurring at both sides of the body symmetrically .
neonatal bilateral symmetric myoclonic seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical motor seizure where the predominant motor feature is sudden ,  brief  (  < 100 msec )  involuntary single or multiple contraction of muscles or muscle groups of variable topography  ( axial ,  proximal limb ,  distal )  wich occurs at both sides of the body symmetrically .
asymmetric neonatal electro - clinical sequential motor seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the predominant feature cannot be detected because of seizures presenting asymmetrically with a variety of clinical and electrographic signs ,  often changing lateralization within or between seizures .
neonatal unilateral epileptic spasm is a sudden flexion ,  extension ,  or mixed extension - flexion of predominantly proximal and truncal muscles that occurs at one side of the body .
symmetric neonatal electro - clinical sequential motor seizure is a type of neonatal electro - clinical seizure where the predominant feature cannot be detected because of seizures presenting symmetrically but with a variety of clinical and electrographic signs .
neonatal bilateral symmetric epileptic spasm is a sudden flexion ,  extension ,  or mixed extension - flexion of predominantly proximal and truncal muscles that occurs symmetrically at both sides of the body .
neonatal bilateral asymmetric epileptic spasm is a sudden flexion ,  extension ,  or mixed extension - flexion of predominantly proximal and truncal muscles that occurs asymmetrically at both sides of the body .
a type of epileptic spasm of generalized onset .
a type of epileptic spasm of focal onset .
a type of focal - onset epileptic spasm in which awareness is impaired at some point during the seizure .
a type of focal - onset epileptic spasm in which awareness is preserved throughout the seizure .
a type of focal motor seizure characterized by a sudden interruption in normal tonic muscle activity lasting 500 ms or less ,  without evidence of preceding myoclonus as the initial semiological manifestation .
focal seizure characterized at onset by clonic movements affecting half of the face with impairment of awareness in which awareness is impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with neglect characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
aphasic status epilepticus is a type of focal non - convulsive status epilepticus without coma characterized by a cognitive  ( rather than motor )  language deficit .
a focal cognitive seizure with expressive dysphasia  /  aphasia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a seizure characterized by elementary visual hallucinations such as flashing or flickering lights / colours ,  or other shapes ,  simple patterns ,  scotomata ,  or amaurosis .
a focal cognitive seizure with conduction dysphasia  /  aphasia characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal sensory seizure with hot - cold sensations in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
focal seizure characterized at onset by clonic movements affecting half of the face with retained awareness throughout .
generalised myoclonic - tonic - clonic seizure provoked by flashing or flickering light .
a type of focal bilateral motor seizure during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a focal motor seizure with negative myoclonus characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal motor seizure with negative myoclonus characterized by impairement of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal motor seizure with paresis  /  paralysis characterized by impaired awareness at some point during the seizure .
generalized non - convulsive status epilepticus without coma is a type of status epilepticus without prominent motor signs ,  which is electrographically generalized .
focal non - convulsive status epilepticus with impairment of consciousness is a type of focal non - convulsive status epilepticus in which awareness is impaired .
a type of focal motor status epilepticus characterized by prolonged ictal paresis or inhibitory motor seizures .
typical absence status epilepticus is a type of generalized non - convulsive status epilepticus without coma that is semiologically a prolonged typical absence seizure .
a type of focal sensory seizure with auditory features during which awareness is retained throughout the seizure .
myoclonic absence status epilepticus is a type of generalized non - convulsive status epilepticus without coma that is semiologically a prolonged myoclonic absence seizure .
a type of focal motor status epilepticus characterized by repetitive and rapid saccades ,  in association with epileptic discharges .
refractory status epilepticus is defined as status epilepticus continuing despite two appropriately selected and dosed antiepileptic drugs ,  including a benzodiazepine .
super - refractory status epilepticus is defined as refractory status epilepticus continuing for 24 h or more following initiation of anesthetic medications ,  including cases in which seizure control is attained after induction of anesthetic drugs but recurs on weaning the patient off the anesthetic agent .
focal non - convulsive status epilepticus without impairment of consciousness is a type of focal non - convulsive status epilepticus in which awareness remains intact .
a focal cognitive seizure with dyslexia  /  alexia characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with hallucination characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with illusion characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a seizure characterized by a sensation in the head such as light - headedness or headache .
a focal cognitive seizure with auditory agnosia characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with conduction dysphasia  /  aphasia characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a seizure characterized by sensations of feeling hot and then cold .
a focal sensory seizure with cephalic sensation in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with dissociation at the onset of the seizure impairment of awareness at at some point during the seizure .
a focal sensory seizure with auditory features in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with deja vu  /  jamais vu characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with deja vu  /  jamais vu characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
a seizure characterized by sensory phenomena including tingling ,  numbness ,  electric - shock like sensation ,  pain ,  sense of movement ,  or desire to move .
a focal cognitive seizure with hallucination characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a focal cognitive seizure with expressive dysphasia  /  aphasia characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
generalized atonic seizure is a type of generalized motor seizure characterized by a sudden loss or diminution of muscle tone without apparent preceding myoclonic or tonic event lasting about 1 - 2 s ,  involving head ,  trunk ,  jaw ,  or limb musculature .
a focal cognitive seizure with forced thinking characterized by impairment of awareness at some point during the seizure .
a seizure characterized by taste phenomena including acidic ,  bitter ,  salty ,  sweet ,  or metallic tastes .
a focal sensory seizure with somatosensory features in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal motor seizure with version characterized by retained awareness throughout the seizure .
seizure associated with a presumed or proven infection  ( excluding infection of the central nervous system )  or inflammatory state without an alternative precipitant such as metabolic derangement ,  and regardless of the presence or absence of a fever .
afebrile  ( less than 38 .0 degrees celcius )  ,  brief ,  and generalized seizures accompanying gastroenteritis without an alternative cause .
any form of seizure occurring at the time of a fever  ( temperature at or above 38 .0 degrees celcius )  without infection of the central nervous system ,  and without an alternative cause such as severe metabolic derangement ,  occurring at any age .
any type of seizure  ( most often a generalized tonic - clonic seizure )  occurring with fever  ( at least 38 .0 degrees celsius )  but in the absence of central nervous system infection ,  severe metabolic disturbance or other alternative precipitant in people beyond the typical arrange of 3 months - 6 years with no prior history of afebrile seizure .
seizure precipitated by listening to music or other complex sounds .
a focal sensory seizure with gustatory features in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a focal seizure characterized at onset by coordinated motor activity .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by orofacial automatisms at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by manual automatisms at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by coordinated bilateral or unilateral movements of the feet or legs at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by inappropriate continuation of pre - seizure movement or behavior at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by the production of single or repetitive meaningless vocal sounds such as shrieks or grunts at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by the production of single or repetitive words ,  phrases ,  or brief sentences at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by involuntary sexual behavior at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by involuntary head nodding at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by involuntary undressing at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by involuntary undressing at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a focal seizure with automatism in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure .
a type of focal automatism seizure during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by orofacial automatisms at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by manual automatisms at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by coordinated bilateral or unilateral movements of the feet or legs at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by inappropriate continuation of pre - seizure movement or behavior at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by the production of single or repetitive meaningless vocal sounds such as shrieks or grunts at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by the production of single or repetitive words ,  phrases ,  or brief sentences at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by involuntary sexual behavior at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is characterized by orofacial automatisms at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure characterized by involuntary head nodding at onset and during which awareness is fully retained throughout .
a type of focal automatism seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is characterized by manual automatisms at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is characterized by coordinated bilateral or unilateral movements of the feet or legs at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is characterized by inappropriate continuation of pre - seizure movement or behavior at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is characterized by the production of single or repetitive meaningless vocal sounds such as shrieks or grunts at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is characterized by the production of single or repetitive words ,  phrases ,  or brief sentences at onset .
a type of focal automatism seizure in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is characterized by involuntary sexual behavior at onset .
a type of focal automatism in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is seizure characterized by involuntary head nodding at onset .
a type of focal automatism in which awareness is partially or fully impaired at some point during the seizure and is seizure characterized by involuntary undressing at onset .
definition: neurofilament light chain  ( nfl )  is a neuronal cytoplasmic protein highly expressed in large calibre myelinated axons .
any abnormal structure of a chondrocyte ,  which is a polymorphic cell that forms cartilage .
concentric rings around the chondrocytes .
an increased level of triacylglycerol lipase in the blood circulation  ( can be measured in serum or plasma )  .
an increased sensitivity of the airways to an inhaled constrictor agonist ,  a steeper slope of the dose - response curve ,  and a greater maximal response to the agonist .
a spontaneous cerebrospinal fluid leak  ( scsfl )  is a spontaneous and unexplained leak of the cerebrospinal fluid from the dura surrounding either the brain  ( cranial leak )  or spine  ( spinal leak )  .
grayish ,  polygonal pattern of opacities with intervening clear zones across the central cornea that resembles crocodile skin .
unintentional reexperiencing a traumatic event comprising symptoms are usually sensory impressions and emotional responses from the trauma that appear to lack a time perspective and a context .
after suffering psychological trauma ,  people can repeatedly experience sensory - perceptual impressions of the event ,  which intrude involuntarily into consciousness .
recurrent distressing dreams in which the content and / or affect of the dream are related to the traumatic event or events .
marked physiological reactions to internal or external cues that symbolize or resemble an aspect of the traumatic event ( s )  .
a disruption and / or discontinuity in the normal integration of consciousness ,  memory ,  identity ,  emotion ,  perception ,  body representation ,  motor control ,  and behavior .
intense or prolonged psychological distress at exposure to internal or external cues that symbolize or resemble an aspect of the traumatic event or events .
avoidance of or efforts to avoid distressing memories ,  thoughts ,  or feelings about or closely associated with the traumatic event ( s )  .
a deviation of urine ph from the normal range of 4 .5 to 7 .8 .
urine ph of 8 or higher .
histopathological findings of inflammation of the renal interstitium potentially involving fibrotic as well as non - fibrotic areas ,  composed of lymphocytes ,  monocytes ,  plasma cells .
histopathological findings of inflammation of the renal interstitium involving fibrotic as well as non - fibrotic renal cortex ,  composed of lymphocytes ,  monocytes ,  plasma cells .
histopathological findings of inflammation of the interstitium of the renal medulla ,  composed of lymphocytes ,  monocytes ,  plasma cells .
the accumulation of collagen and related extracellular matrix  ( ecm )  molecules in the interstitium of the kidney .
the presence of interstitial aggregates of purple finely granular / laminated calcium -  and phosphate deposits .
abnormal structure or form of the lumen  ( opening )  of kidney tubules .
viral cytopathic changes consist of smudgy basophilic intranuclear inclusions with enlarged nuclei of infected cells .
a type of renal tubular atrophy in which the tubules show thick tubular basement membranes lined by small cuboidal or flat cells .
characteristic intranuclear glassy - appearing basophilic inclusions with surrounding halo  ( owl's eye - type inclusion )  and marked increase in the size of the cell  ( cytomegaly )  ,  particularly in tubular epithelial cells and in endothelial cells .
viral cytopathic changes consist of smudgy basophilic intranuclear inclusions with enlarged nuclei of infected cells .
renal ltubular nuclear inclusions have a ground - glass appearance with irregular central clearing ,  or a coarse ,  vesicular appearance .
renal tubular nuclear inclusions that stain positive for herpes simplex virus  ( hsv )  .
the presence of dysmorphic urinary erythrocytes .
the presence in the urine of desquamated tubular epithelial cells or macrophages filled with lipid droplets .
birefringent calcium -  and oxalate - containing casts located within the tubuli of the kidney .
purple and finely granular / laminated calcium -  and phosphate - containing casts located within the tubuli of the kidney .
magnesium ammonium phosphate crystals in the urine .
dilated renal tubules  ( over twice the diameter of a normal proximal tubule )  containing eosinophilic amorphous material .
a renal cyst characterized by epithelium lined space  ( squamous / columnar )  with septations .
the presence of uric acid crystals in the urine .
interstitial emphysema is characterized by air dissecting within the interstitium of the lung ,  typically in the peribronchovascular sheaths ,  interlobular septa ,  and visceral pleura .
a type of emphysema characterized by destroyed centrilobular alveolar walls and enlargement of respiratory bronchioles and associated alveoli .
panacinar emphysema involves all portions of the acinus and secondary pulmonary lobule more or less uniformly .
abnormal retention of gas within a lung or part of a lung ,  as a result of airway obstuction of abnormalities in lung compliance .
distortion of the bronchial airways due to mechanical traction on the bronchi resulting from fibrosis of the surrounding lung parenchyma .
ct finding of ground - glass opacity surrounding a nodule or mass .
a nodular pattern on pulmonary high - resolution computed tomography which are anatomically located centrally within secondary pulmonary lobules .
abnormal type or counts of nucleated immune cells and acellular components in bronchoalveolar lavage  ( bal )  fluid .
deviation from the commonly in healthy people observe cellular distribution .
any deviation from the normal concentration of protein in the bronchoalveolar fluid .
usually ,  lymphoycytes make up less than 15% of all cells found in the bronchoalveloar lavage fluid .
usually ,  neutrophils make up less than 3% of all cells found in the broncho - alveloar lavage fluid .
accumulation of lipids in alveolar macrophages with droplet - shaped fat inclusions .
hemosiderin - laden macrophages  ( hlm )  in bronchoalveolar lavage  ( bal )  fluid were originally known as adiagnostic biomarker of alveolar hemorrhage ,  but have also been observed in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis  ( ipf )  with histopathological pattern of usual interstitial pneumonia  ( uip )  .
significantly decreased level or failed detection of surfactant protein c in broncho - alveolar lavage fluid .
significantly decreased level or failed detection of surfactant protein b in broncho - alveolar lavage fluid .
ct finding of central ground - glass opacity surrounded by denser consolidation of crescentic shape  ( forming more than three - fourths of a circle )  or complete ring of at least 2 mm in thicknes .
alveolar macrophages usually make up the majority of cells in the bronchoalveolar space  ( over 80% )  .
accumulation of inhaled ,  nondigestable particles in macrophages .
in otherwise healthy smokers ,  characteristic so called smoker - inclusion can be found within the macrophages in the bronchoalveolar fluid .
usually ,  eosinophils make up less than 0 .5% of all cells found in the broncho - alveloar lavage fluid .
the premie - neuro and the dubowitz neurological examination score head lag in the same manner .
delayed ahcievement of the ability to roll front to back and back to front .
circumscribed pulmonary hemorrhage originating from a single bleeding site in the lungs .
an abnormal form or number of the pulmonary fissures .
an abnormal form or location of a pulmonary fissure .
a deviation from the normal number of pulmonary fissures .
presence of a lung fissure that does not exist normally .
lack of one or more of the normal pulmonary fissures .
any deviation from the normal concentration of cystatin c in serum or plasma .
a decreased concentration of cystatin c in the blood circulation .
a elevated concentration of cystatin c in the blood circulation .
abnormally high concentration of fecal porphyrins in feces .
narrowing of the larynx ,  commonly occuring during viral respiratory tract infections ,  in particular in children ,  leads to symptoms such as hoarseness ,  a barking cough ,  stridor ,  and sometimes dyspnea and respiratory failure .
a wart - like lesion  ( papilloma ,  i .e . ,  benign epithelial tumors that are caused by infection with the human papilloma virus )  located on the larynx .
a wart - like lesion  ( papilloma ,  i .e . ,  benign epithelial tumors that are caused by infection with the human papilloma virus )  located on a bronchus .
a wart - like lesion  ( papilloma ,  i .e . ,  benign epithelial tumors that are caused by infection with the human papilloma virus )  located on the trachea .
multiple verrucous lesions on the skin of the palm .
multiple verrucous lesions on the skin of the sole of the foot .
diffuse alveolar damage  ( dad )  describes a comon histologic injury pattern of the lung .
architectural distortion is characterized by abnormal displacement of bronchi ,  vessels ,  fissures ,  or septa caused by diffuse or localized lung disease ,  particularly interstitial fibrosis .
abnormally increased width of the z - disk of the sarcomere ,  resulting from splitting or opening of the z - disc  ( c .f . ,  figure 2 of pmid:28732005 )  .
abnormally high concentration of coproporphyrin 3 in feces .
abnormally high concentration of coproporphyrin 3 in feces
extreme width of the skull in the occipital region ,  with anterior narrowing and prognathism .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in saliva .
any deviation from the normal concentration of cortisol in saliva .
abnormally reduced concentration of cortisol in saliva .
abnormally elevated concentration of cortisol in saliva .
a lasting reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin d  ( igd )  in the blood .
a temporary reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin d  ( igd )  in the blood circulation .
a lasting absence of immunoglobulin d  ( igd )  in the blood ,  whereby at most trace quantities of igd can be measured .
a neoplasm that affects the male reproductive system .
a neoplasm that affects the female reproductive system .
a temporary reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  in the blood .
a lasting reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  in the blood .
a lasting absence of immunoglobulin e  ( ige )  in the blood circulation ,  whereby at most trace quantities of ige can be measured .
a temporary reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin a  ( iga )  in the blood circulation .
a lasting absence of immunoglobulin g  ( igg )  in the blood ,  whereby at most trace quantities of igg can be measured .
a small circumscribed whitish change in the color of the oral mucosa that is neither elevated nor depressed .
a pebbly orange appearance of the fundus that is said to resemble the skin of an orange .
the presence autoantibodies in the serum that react to proteins  ( 70 kd ,  a ,  c )  that are associated with u1 rna and form u1snrnp . \ n \ ncomment: high titers of anti - rnp antibodies are diagnostic of mixed connective tissue disorder  ( mctd )  .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react to the histidyl - trna - synthetase .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react to the glomerular basement membrane .
an extreme elevation of core body temperature above normal defined as a rectal temperature of 41 .1 degrees celsius  ( 106 degrees fahrenheit )  .
applies to a sign or symptom that is induced by an abusive adult  ( usually a parent )  .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react to anti - mda5  ( anti - melanoma differentiation - associated proteine 5 )  .
the presence autoantibodies in the serum that react do different citrullinated antigens ,  including filaggrin ,  fibrinogen ,  vimentin and collagen .
abormality of schwann cells ,  glial cells that ensheath axons of neurons in the peripheral nervous system and are necessary for their maintenance and function .
reduced level of nasal nitric oxide  ( nno )  .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react to rna - polymerase iii .
the presence of high titers of antigen - precipitating igg in the serum .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react to seven proteins that consist of a core of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein  ( snrnp )  particles .
excessive or uncontrolled release of proinflammatory cytokines .
any structural anomaly of the fetal part of the placenta ,  which is known as the chorion .
swelling of the chorionic villi owing to fluid accumulation .
loss of previously achieved motor skills ,  as manifested by loss of developmental motor milestones .
a palpable swelling in both feet and ankles caused by palpable swelling caused by an increase in interstitial fluid volume  ( excess fulid )  .
basophilic intracytoplasmic inclusions in macrophages .
body ache is a complaint that is often used to denote vague symptoms of mild fatigue ,  lethargy ,  or dull aches .
hypointence  ( dark )  appearance of the substantia nigra inmagnetic resonance imaging using susceptibility weighted imaging  ( swi )  .
hypointence  ( dark )  appearance of the globus pallidus inmagnetic resonance imaging using susceptibility weighted imaging  ( swi )  .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  and perceived to originate in the throat .
a disturbance of executive functioning ,  which is broadly defined as the set of abilities that allow for the planning ,  executing ,  monitoring ,  and self - correcting of goal - directed behavior while inhibiting task - irrelevant behavior .
psychogenic non - epileptic seizures  ( pnes )  are an important cause of apparently treatment - resistant epilepsy and remain a major diagnostic challenge in epileptology .
sudden ,  involuntary seizure - like attacks that ,  unlike epileptic seizures ,  are not related to electrographic ictal discharges .
a tremor - like cortical myoclonus .the tremulous movements are in fact small ,  high - frequency myoclonic jerks ,  induced by posture or action .
impaired ability to anticipate future events ,  implement instructions or goals ,  and develop appropriate steps ahead of time in order to carry out a task or activity .
impaired ability to bring order to information ,  actions ,  or materials to achieve a goal or to follow an established organized routine .
reduced level of one or more components of the the terminal membrane attack complex  ( mac )  portion of complement ,  which represents the lytic ,  pore - forming part of the system .
a reduced level of the complement component c7 in the blood circulation .
a reduced level of the complement component c6 in the blood circulation .
a reduced level of the complement component c5 in the blood circulation .
elevated activity of coagulation factor ix .
abnormal activity of coagulation factor ix .
a tendency to sleep less hours than usual while feeling well rested .
accumulation of globotriaosylceramide  ( gl - 3 )  in kidney tissues ,  which can be quantified as the number of globotriaosylceramide  ( gl - 3 )  inclusions / kidney interstitial capillary  ( kic )  .
the presence of mildly increased concentrations of albumin in the urine ,  defined as an albumin - creatinine ratio  ( acr )  less than 30 mg / gm  ( less than 3 .4 mg / mmol )  .
the presence of severely increased concentrations of albumin in the urine ,  defined as an albumin - creatinine ratio greater than 300 mg / gm  ( greater than 34 mg / mmol )  .
a variety of drugs may occasionally cause transient crystalluria ,  in isolation or in conjunction with other urinary abnormalities .
an increased number of igg4 +  plasma cells in the interstitial space of the kidney .
impaired ability to track awareness of the effect that one's behavior has on others and how it compares with standards or expectations for behavior .
impaired ability to keep track of one's problem - solving success or failure ,  and to identify and correct mistakes during performance of a goal .
anomalous physical appearance  ( color ,  cloudiness ,  clarity )  or odor of urine .
intradermal urate crystal deposits appeared as small ,  superficial ,  pustule - like ,  whitish lesions .
amelioration of anemia upon treatment with a steroid medication .
a normal or elevated serum thyroid - stimulating hormone  ( tsh )  level in the face of an elevation in circulating ft4 and / or ft3 .
a deviation from the normal concentration of free thyroxine  ( t4 )  in the blood circulation .
an elevated concentration of free thyroxine  ( ft4 )  in the blood circulation .
a reduced concentration of free thyroxine  ( ft4 )  in the blood circulation .
absence or underdevelopment of the thyroid gland .
thyrotrophin - releasing hormone  ( trh )  is a hypothalamic tripeptide synthesised by ,  stored within and released from the hypothalamus .
failure to increase serum tsh levels in response to a trh stimulation test .
a lower than normal tsh response to thyrotrophin - releasing hormone stimulation test .
an elevated level of farnesol in the blood circulation .
any deviation from a count of antral follicles that is normal for age .
a count of antral follicles that is lower than normal for age .
a count of antral follicles that is higher than normal for age .
fever that occurs at daily intervals .
urine valine level above the normal range .
an increased level of a branched chain family amino acid in the urine .
an elevated level of an aromatic amino acid in the urine .
an abnormally increased level of tyrosine in the urine .
an increase in the level of succinate in the urine .
an elevated level of an glutamine family amino acid in the urine .
an increased concentration of glutamate in the urine .
an elevated urine level of a compound that is derived from an amino acid .
an increased level in the urine of an alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
an increased level of a serine family amino acid in the urine .
an elevated level of a proteinogenic amino acid in the urine .
an abnormally increased level of aconitic acid in the urine .
the femoral neck region shows medial metaphyseal beaking and a significant enlargement of the lesser trochanter  ( with some enlargement also of the greater trochanter )  ,  producing a monkey wrench  ( swedish key )  configuration of the proximal femur .
increased concentration of chitinase 3 - like 1  ( chi3l1 )  in the blood circulation .
failure to develop fever in the presence of an infection that normally would be expected to elicit a febrile response .
an abnormal parenchymal band connecting the medial margins of the left and right hypothalami across the third ventricle .
an increased concentration of d - dimers ,  a marker of fibrin degradation ,  in the blood circulation .
an elevated level of a proteinogenic amino acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration in the blood circulation of a compound that is derived from an amino acid .
any deviation from the normal concentration in the blood circulation of an alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
an abnormally increased circulation of alpa - aminobutyric acid in the blood circulation .
concentration of 3 - hydroxyisovaleric acid in the urine above the normal range .
an increased concentration in blood of apolipoprotein c - iii ,  a protein component of triglyceride  ( tg )  - rich lipoproteins  ( trls )  including very low density lipoproteins  ( vldl )  ,  high density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  and chylomicrons .
in the normal heart cycle ,  two heart sounds can be heard by auscultation per cycle: s1 and s2 .
a type of gallop rhytm in which both the third and the fourth sounds are present .
abnormally increased concentration of tenascin - c in the blood circulation .
foci of gastric - type mucus - secreting cells interspersed between duodenal enterocytes .
inflammation of the lining of the upper small intestine  ( duodenum )  .
anomalous physiology  ( function )  of the right ventricle .
elevation of right ventricular systolic pressure  ( rvsp )  above normal limits .
a type of eczema characterized by pruritic coin - shaped patches on the skin .
a cough with a characteristic sound that has been compared to a seal's bark .
the p wave that normally precedes each qrs complex by a fixed pr interval of 120 to 200 milliseconds is not present .
abnormally increased level of osteopontin in the blood circulation
an increased level of sorbitol in the blood circulation .
an indolent b cell lymphoproliferative disorder of transformed follicular center b cells .
skin and subcutaneous tissue necrosis  ( tissue death )  .
an anomaly of the musculoskeletal system ,  which consists of the bones of the skeleton ,  muscles ,  cartilage ,  tendons ,  ligaments ,  joints ,  and other connective tissue .
a failure to achieve the ability to crawl at an appropriate developmental stage .
anopmalous function of the shoulder .
anomalous echogenicity of the kidney on ultrasound examination .
increased echogenecity of the medullary region of the kidney .
increased echogenecity of the kidney cortex .
fibrous bands  ( i .e . ,  bands of scar - like tissue )  that span two or more intra - abdominal organs and / or the inner abdominal wall  ( i .e .
hepatic infarction is defined as areas of coagulative necrosis from hepatocyte cell death caused by local ischemia .
an inflammed lymph node that is filled with pus .
a structural abnormality of the pulmonary acinus ,  alveolar parenchyma ,  or alveoli .
a thrombus  ( i .e . ,  a blood clot formed in situ within the vascular system )  located in the right atrium of the heart .
concentration of uracil in the blood is above the normal range .
the presence of an upwardly displaced normal cerebellar vermis ,  normal appearance of the fastigium ,  tentorium and size of the cisterna magna .
unusually severe clinical course of sars - cov - 2 infection ,  manifested clinically by features such as dyspnea and hypoxia with diffuse bilateral ground - glass opacities of the lungs on computed tomographic scan with progressive respiratory insufficiency necessitating oxygen supplementation or mechanical ventilation .
increased superior - inferior length of the nasal bridge ,  which is the saddle - shaped area that includes the nasal root and the lateral aspects of the nose .
inflammation of the lining of the middle section of the small intestine .
any deviation of the concentration of ceruloplasmin in the blood from the normal range .
increased concentration of methylsuccinic acid in the blood circulation .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a short - chain fatty acid in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of isovaleric acid ,  a c5 ,  branched - chain saturated fatty acid ,  in the blood concentration .
increased diameter  ( caliber )  of intrahepatic bile ducts  ( bile ducts that transport bile between the canals of hering and the interlobar bile ducts )  .
an abscess located at the junction of the anal canal and the rectum .
a structural anomaly of the pharynx .
a functional anomaly of the pharynx .
an abnormally increased circulation of dodecenoylcarnitine ,  c12:1 ,  in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of pyridinoline cross - links in the bloood circulation .
abnormally increased concentration of l - alloisoleucine in the blood circulation .
abnormally increased level of l - alloisoleucine in the urine .
abnormal increase of the concentration of 3 - methylhistidine in the blood circulation .
an abnormal reduction in the number of beats per unit time of the respiratory cilia .
decreased level of inosine in urine .
decreased level of guanosine in urine .
any deviation from the normal amount of a purine compound in the urine .
any deviation from the normal amount of a pyrimidine compound in the urine .
an increased number and / or abnormal type of bacteria in the small bowel .
focal active colitis  ( fac )  is characterized by focal crypt damage caused by neutrophils .
inflammation of the intestine leading to bacterial invasion causing cellular damage and death which causes necrosis of the colon and intestine .
an increased susceptibility to viral upper respiratory tract infections as manifested by a history of recurrent viral upper respiratory tract infections  ( otitis ,  sinusitis ,  pharyngitis ,  tonsillitis )  .
a neutrophilic interstitial ,  perivascular and / or perieccrine infiltrate with leukocytoclasia .
abnormally reduced activity of mevalonate kinase ,   , which is a key enzyme in the mevalonate biosynthetic pathway that leads to the synthesis of both cholesterol and nonsterol isoprenoids .
any deviation from the normal range of a skinfold thickness ,  which quantifies the amount of subcutaneous fat when the skin is pinched by specialized calipers .
any deviation from the normal range of the thickness of the tricpes skinfold ,  which quantifies the amount of subcutaneous fat when the skin is pinched by specialized calipers .
increased thickness of the triceps skinfold ,  which is measured halfway down the back of the upper arm is increased .
white appearance of bronchoalveolar lavage effluent said to resemble milk .
return of lavage fluid characteristically has a bloody apperance in pulmonary alveolar hemorrhage .
concentration of l - pyroglutamic acid in the blood is above the normal range .
increased size of the lymph nodes that are located beneath the mandible  ( lower jaw )  .
an increased concentration of suberic acid in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of interleukin - 8 in the circulation .
an increased concentration of aconitic acid in the blood circulation .
the appendix testis or hydatid of morgagni ,  is a vestigial remnant of the mllerian duct located on the superior pole of the testicle between the testis and epididymis .
an increase in concentration of cathepsin d in the blood circulation .
a developmental defect of pulmonary lobation characterized by the presence of only two lobes of the right lung .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by infection by the epstein - barr virus .
the term is commonly used to describe a putative abnormal location of pulmonary vein branches adjacent to pulmonary arteries within the same adventitial sheath .
elevated levels of proline - containing dipeptides in urine .
a severe type of acne characterized by the formation of cysts enclosing a mixture of keratin and sebum .
elongated tooth root .
a large nonpalpable spot of the skin over 1 cm in dimension with increased pigmentation and increased hair growth .
an increased concentration of selenium in the blood circulation .
an abnormally reduced concentration of selenium in the blood circulation .
swelling of the hepatocyte ,  rounding of its contour ,  and alteration of the cytoplasm ,  which takes on a reticulated ,  rarified ,  or flocculant quality .
erythema  ( redness of the skin caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin )  localized to the region surrounding the mouth .
erythema  ( redness of the skin caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin )  localized to the region surrounding the anus .
infiltration of portal fields by inflammatory cells .
infiltration of inflammatory cells in lobules of the liver .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by infection by a virus .
an elevation of the concentration of interleukin 10 in the blood circulation .
reduced intensity of the triceps tendon reflex .
reduced intensity of the biceps tendon reflex .
reduced intensity of the brachioradialis tendon reflex .
increased intensity of the brachioradialis reflex .
increased intensity of the triceps reflex .
increased intensity of the biceps reflex .
increased intensity of the achilles reflex .
increased proportion relative to b - lymphocytes of a subset of b lymphocytes characterized by dim / low levels of cd21 ,  i .e . ,  cd21 -  / low ,  in flow cytometry ,  and additionally enriched in autoreactive clones as determined for instance by clonse showing rheumatoid factor  ( anti - igg )  reactivity and antibodies recognizing cytoplasmic and to a lesser extent nuclear structures .
a developmental defect of the alveolar airspace during cananicular lung development characterized by a decreased number of pulmonary capillaries located away from the alveolar epithelium ,  thickened alveolar septae ,  media hypertrophy of small pulmonary arteries and muscularization of distal arterioles ,  and in some cases lymphangiectasis .
arrest of lung development in the pseudoglandular stage  ( weeks 8 to 16 of human gestation )  resulting in small sized lungs ,  predominantly composed of bronchial and bronchiolar structures embedded in abundant loose mesenchyme that is poorly vascularized .
arrest of lung development in the cananicular stage  ( weeks 18 to 26 of human gestation )  resulting in simplified acinar spaces ,  frequently with abundant intervening mesenchyme and no alveoli .
a reduction in the total - iron binding capacity ,  which measures how much serum iron is bound if an excess of radioactive iron is added .
any deviation from the normal total - iron binding capacity ,  which measures how much serum iron is bound if an excess of radioactive iron is added .
an increased in the level of suberic acid in the urine above the normal range .
increased susceptibility to viral pneumonia ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of viral pneumonias .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  of the chest .
abnormal keratinization of the epidermal stratum coreum  ( horny layer )  with increased keratin formation ,  preservation of the nuclei in the superficial cells ,  and absence of the stratum granulosum .
elevated rate of chromosomal breakage or interchanges occurring either spontaneously or following exposure to various dna - damaging agents .
thickened fingernails .
painless and spontaneous separation of a toenail from the nail bed .
thickening of the retina that takes place due to accumulation of fluid in the macula as a nonspecific response to blood - retinal barrier breakdown .
any deviation from the normal circulating creatine kinase concentration .
a conspicuously happy disposition with frequent smiling and laughing that may be context - inappropriate or unrelated to context .
a deviation from the normal concentration of renin in the blood ,  a central hormone in the control of blood pressure and various other physiological functions .
any deviation from the normal concentration of folate in the blood circulation .
any abnormality in the total number of lymphocytes in the blood .
any deviation from the normal overall count of natural killer  ( nk )  cells in the circulation or a deviation from the normal distribution of nk cell subtypes .
an abnormality of the tympanic membrane
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the outer ear .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the inner ear .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the ceruminal gland .
an abnormality in the reflexive contraction of the middle - ear muscles in response to sound stimulation .
a deviation from the normal concentration of cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  in the blood .
an abnormality of the composition of sweat or the levels of its components .
a deviation from the normal circulating concentration of ferritin .
any abnormality in the serum transferrin saturation ,  which is calculated by dividing the serum iron level by total iron - binding capacity .
a type of acne in which open and closed comedones comprise the majority of the lesions ,  with substantially fewer papules and pustules .
multiple subcutaneous non - fragile and skin - coloured papules characterized by interstitial infiltrate of spindle and epithelioid histiocytes ,  and mucin .
yellow nodules of lipoid material are deposited in the skin and mucosae .
decreased level of the reaction 5 - oxo - l - proline  +  atp  +  2 h ( 2 ) o = l - glutamate  +  adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  phosphate .
os odontoideum is classified into two anatomic types  ( orthotopic and dystopic )  .
an increase in the level of l - 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid in the urine .
cortical myoclonus mainly affects the distal upper limbs and face ,  which reflects the largest cortical representations of these body areas .
the presence of woolly hair on the scalp .
a chronic skin condition involving the inflammation of the apocrine sweat glands ,  forming pimple - like bumps known as abscesses .
an increased amount of 3 - hydroxybutyric acid in the urine .
an increased amount of carboxylic acid in the urine .
formation of an anuclear keratin layer
fatty tumors on the eyelids .
inflammation of the periosteum
reduced level of platelet - activating factor acetylhydrolase .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a phospholipid in the blood circulation .
cracking ,  fissuring ,  and peeling of the skin of the lips .
inappropriate sinus tachycardia is a nonparoxysmal tachyarrhythmia characterized by an increased resting heart rate  ( hr )  and / or an exaggerated hr response to minimal exertion or a change in body posture .
a skin rash that is characterized by diffuse cutaneous erythema with areas of skin elevation .
systemic inflammatory response to infection in newborn babies .
abnormal growth ossification centers in children .
refers to the loss of the outer layer of the epidermis in large ,  scale - like flakes .
an endocrine tumor arising from an apud cell .
an abnormally increased head circumference in a growing child .
an abnormally reduced head circumference in a growing child .
decreased occipito - frontal  ( head )  circumference  ( ofc )  .
encephalomalacia is the softening or loss of brain tissue after cerebral infarction ,  cerebral ischemia ,  infection ,  craniocerebral trauma ,  or other injury .
the inability to maintain postures or positions  ( such as keeping eyes closed ,  protruding the tongue ,  maintaining conjugate gaze steadily in a fixed direction ,  or making a prolonged 'ah' sound )  without repeated prompts .
a subset of motor impersistence ,  defined as the inability to perform more than two of the simple voluntary acts simultaneously ,  such as closing the eyes and protruding the tongue .
abnormal concentration of neopterin in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
increased concentration of neopterin in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
decreased concentration of neopterin in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of neopterin in the blood circulation .
abnormal concentration of biopterin in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
increased concentration of biopterin in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
decreased concentration of biopterin in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
a deviation from the normal concentration of biopterin in the blood circulation .
an abnormality of the skin of the palm ,  that is ,  the skin of the front of the hand .
fixed sarcastic grimace and anxious expression .
hypopnea is referring to breathing that is abnormally shallow .
an abnormal concentration of insulin in the body .
an abnormal concentration of insulin in the blood .
a decreased concentration of insulin in the blood .
an increased concentration of hemoglobin a1c  ( hba1c )  ,  which is the product of nonenzymatic attachment of a hexose molecule to the n - terminal amino acid of the hemoglobin molecule .
less than normal number of natural killer cells ,  a type of lymphocyte in the innate immune system with an ability to mediate cytotoxicity and produce cytokines after the ligation of a germline - encoded activation receptor .
lack of natural killer cells ,  a type of lymphocyte in the innate immune system that contains cytoplasmic granzymes ,  i .e . ,  small granules with perforin and proteases that allow natural killer cells to form pores in the cell membrane of the target cell through which the granzymes and associated molecules can enter ,  inducing apoptosis .
an increased tendency towards thrombosis in the mother during a pregnancy .
pulmonary hemorrhage is a bleeding within the lungs .
clincial phenotype characterized by delayed bleeding accelerated break down of blood clot  ( fibrinolysis ) 
a decrease in high molecular weight von willebrand factor multimers .
an abnormality of coagulation related to a decreased concentration of heparin co - factor ii
decrease of these levels result in increased inhibition of fibrinolysis and reduced inhibition of coagulation
a decreased level of plasminogen
thrombomodulin is a cofactor in the thrombin induced activation of protein c . in the case of deficiency there will be less protein c and tendency to clot
the tpa protein catalyzes the conversion of plasiminogen to plasmin ,  and thus break down of clots .
abnormal bleeding related to a procedure or trauma which does not start at the time of the initial insult ,  but after delay by at least 24 hours .
deficiency of factor xiii subunit a ,  leading to a reduced factor xiii activity .
deficiency of factor xiii subunit b ,  leading to a reduced factor xiii activity .
the presence of intraceullar inclusion bodies  ( aggregates of stainable substances ,  usually proteins )  in leukocytes .
increased degradation of fibrin ,  associated with clot instability and bleeding
impaired binding of factor viii to von willebrand factor .
an impairment of the migration of neutrophils towards chemoattractants as part of the innate immune response
increased plasma vitamin k epoxide after vitamin k supplementation is present in vkcfd  ( vitamin k - dependent clotting factor deficiency )  type 2 ,  but not in vkcfd type 1 .
an increased vwf propeptide to vwf antigen indicates that deficiency of vwf is not due to impaired synthesis but due to rapid clearance .
increased platelet agglutination in response to low - dose ristocetin
bleeding occuring within a muscle
abnormally increased length of time required for an in vitro clot to dissolve in the absence of the normal plasmin inhibitors .
increased time to coagulation in the russell's viper venom assay
reduced activity of alpha - 2 - antiplasmin .this protein inactivates the protease plasmin that drives fibrinolysis .
reduced antithrombin antigen .a reduced level of antithrombin may lead to an increased risk of thrombus formation .
abnormally decreased length of time required for an in vitro clot to dissolve in the absence of the normal plasmin inhibitors .
reduced activity of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 .
reduced level of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 antigen .
reduced prothrombin antigen as measured by elisa assay .
a cutaneous indentation resulting from tethering of the skin to underlying structures  ( bone )  of the hand .
absence or underdevelopment of the nasopharyngeal adenoids .
a deviation in the size of nasopharyngeal adenoids .
underdevelopment of the nasopharyngeal adenoids .
absence of the nasopharyngeal adenoids as a developmental defect .
an abnormal decrease in the size of nasopharyngeal adenoids .
an abnormal increase in the size of nasopharyngeal adenoids .
middle ear is filled with glue - like fluid instead of air .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the jaw .
increased susceptibility to middle ear infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of middle ear infections
an abnormal resistance to glucose ,  i .e . ,  a reduction in the ability to maintain glucose levels in the blood stream within normal limits following oral or intravenous administration of glucose .
a region of high intensity  ( brightness )  observed upon magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  scans of the spinal cord .
a malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the intestines .
a malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the small intestine .
a malignant epithelial tumor with a glandular organization that originates in the large intestine .
a benign tumor  ( adenoma )  of the pituitary gland
class to represent frequency of phenotypic abnormalities within a patient cohort .
always present ,  i .e .in 100% of the cases .
present in 80% to 99% of the cases .
present in 30% to 79% of the cases .
present in 5% to 29% of the cases .
present in 1% to 4% of the cases .
present in 0% of the cases .
a structural anomaly of the muscles of the trunk and head .
the condition of inability to eat normally treated by placement of a thin tube through the nose into the stomach that is then used to carry food .
recurrent episodes of abnormally low levels of neutrophils in the body  ( neutropenia )  .
preauricular sinus is an occasional finding and most frequently appears as a small pit close to the anterior margin of the ascending portion of the helix .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a free fatty acid in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of glycerol in the urine .
increased concentration of glycerol in the blood .
increased desire for sexual activity on the part of a male .
reduced desire for sexual activity on the part of a male .
a problem occurring during any phase of the male sexual response cycle that prevents the individual from experiencing satisfaction from the sexual activity
inability of a male to reach orgasm .
an inflammatory arthritis characterized by purulent synovial fluid with neutrophil accumulation ,  but with negative cultures .
a type of arthritis that affects up to four joints in the first six months of disease .
the vagina ends in a blind pouch or sac rather than being connected to the internal genitalia .
an abnormal accumulation of fluid and swelling in the tongue .
an abnormal blue color of the urine .
an abnormal red color of the urine .
an abnormal dark color of the urine .
an abnormal red - brown color of the urine .
an abnormal dark - yellow color of the urine .
an abnormal purple color of the urine .
redness of the skin of the eyelids ,  caused by hyperemia of the capillaries in the lower layers of the skin .
in a heliotrope rash ,  the color of the skin turns to violet ,  which is the color of the heliotrope flower .
a cutaneous eruption that consists of multiple  ( at least two )  concentric erythematous rings .
underdevelopment of the olfactory bulb .
an abnormal morphology of the olfactory bulb  ( bulbus olfactorius )  ,  which is involved in olfaction ,  i .e .
an abnormal area of increased brightness  ( hyperintensity )  that is limited to one particular area .
an abnormal area of increased brightness  ( hyperintensity )  that occurs in several distinct areas .
areas of brighter than expected mri signal in the white matter of the brain whereby individual patches run together .
chronic rhinitis accompanied by pus formation .
the absence of lactoferrin in neutrophil granules ,  which could be caused by either an isolated failure of synthesis of this protein  ( or the production of an antigenically unrecognizable form of lactoferrin )  or a complete deficiency of specific granule production .
an abnormality of the nucleus of neutrophils ,  which presents as either a type i nuclear cleft ,  where the nuclear cleft may show a transition into a round / oval shape .
an abnormally reduced level of alkaline phosphatase in neutrophils ,  which could be due to absence of enzyme or the production of defective enzyme .
an increased number of mitochondria detected in neutrophils .
an increased number of ribosomes detected in neutrophils .
a compression or resistance upon the bladder outflow channel at any location from the bladder neck to urethral meatus ,  which usually causes lower urinary tract symptoms  ( luts )  .
a decrease in the protein expression fo gpi - anchor proteins ,  such as cd55 and cd59 ,  at the cell surface ,  which suggests a defect in gpi - anchor biosynthesis .
an inability to digest starch .
tubular lumnal dilatation / prominence lined by simple layer of cuboidal - to - flat tublar epihelial cells .
a rare condition that is characterized by a complete loss of taste function of the tongue .
a developmental defect characterized by the absence of the putamen owing to its failure to develop .
a partial or complete breakage of the head .
a partial or complete breakage of the thoracic segment of trunk .
a partial or complete breakage of the humerus .
a cruciform - shaped hyperintensity within the pons found on t2 - weighted magnetic resonance imaging  ( mri )  .
a temporary reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin g4  ( igg4 )  in the blood circulation .
a lasting decrease of immunoglobulin g4  ( igg4 )  in the blood .
a lasting absence of immunoglobulin g4  ( igg4 )  in the blood ,  whereby at most trace quantities of igg4 can be measured .
a lasting limited decrease of immunoglobulin g4  ( igg4 )  in the blood .
a partial or complete breakage of the calcaneus .
a temporary reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin g2  ( igg2 )  in the blood circulation .
a lasting decrease of immunoglobulin g2  ( igg2 )  in the blood .
a partial or complete breakage of the knee .
a lasting absence of immunoglobulin g2  ( igg2 )  in the blood ,  whereby at most trace quantities of igg2 can be measured .
a lasting limited decrease of immunoglobulin g2  ( igg2 )  in the blood .
a temporary reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin g1  ( igg1 )  in the blood circulation .
a lasting decrease of immunoglobulin g1  ( igg1 )  in the blood .
a lasting absence of immunoglobulin g1  ( igg1 )  in the blood ,  whereby at most trace quantities of igg1 can be measured .
a lasting limited decrease of immunoglobulin g1  ( igg1 )  in the blood .
a temporary reduction beneath the normal level of total immunoglobulin g3  ( igg3 )  in the blood circulation .
a lasting decrease of immunoglobulin g3  ( igg3 )  in the blood .
a partial or complete breakage of the thoracic vertebra .
a lasting absence of immunoglobulin g3  ( igg3 )  in the blood ,  whereby at most trace quantities of igg3 can be measured .
a lasting limited decrease of immunoglobulin g3  ( igg3 )  in the blood .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of immunoglobulins in body fluids ,  such as mucous .
an elevation from normal levels of immunoglobulins in body fluids ,  such as mucous .
an reduction from normal levels of immunoglobulins in body fluids ,  such as mucous .
the percentage of fat as a part of total body weight below the norm ,  usually defined as less than 14% for females and less than 8% for males .
a deviation from the normal proportion of exhausted t cell relative to t cell in the blood .
bone fracture anywhere in the tibia ,  fibula ,  or ankle .
a partial or complete breakage of the skull .
a partial or complete breakage of the phalanx .
a fracture of the thoracic vertebra that is caused by a loss of bone mass  ( osteoporosis )  that occurs as part of aging .
a fracture of the vertebra that is caused by a loss of bone mass  ( osteoporosis )  that occurs as part of aging .
a fracture of the cervical vertebra that is caused by a loss of bone mass  ( osteoporosis )  that occurs as part of aging .
a fracture of the lumbar vertebra that is caused by a loss of bone mass  ( osteoporosis )  that occurs as part of aging .
a fractured in which a fragment of the humerus tears away from the main mass of bone as a result of physical trauma .
a fractured in which a fragment of the tibia tears away from the main mass of bone as a result of physical trauma .
a fractured in which a fragment of the pelvic region of trunk bone tears away from the main mass of bone as a result of physical trauma .
a fractured in which the fragment of the epiphysis of femur bone tears away from the main mass of bone as a result of physical trauma .
heightened emotional reactivity to environmental stimuli ,  including emotions of others .
a partial or complete breakage of the metaphysis of femur .
a partial or complete breakage of the right clavicle .
a partial or complete breakage of the left clavicle .
a partial or complete breakage of the lower limb segment .
a partial or complete breakage of the upper limb segment .
a partial or complete breakage of the metacarpus skeleton .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of fifth metacarpal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the tibia .
a partial or complete breakage of the clavicle bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the acetabular part of hip bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the coccyx .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis .
a partial or complete breakage of the navicular bone of pes .
a partial or complete breakage of the cuboid bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the sternoclavicular joint .
a fracture or multiple fractures of one or more of three bones in the ankle joint: the tibia  ( shinbone )  ,  the fibula  ( outer ankle bone )  ,  and the talus  ( which is the bone that connects your leg to your foot )  .
a partial or complete breakage of the elbow joint .
a partial or complete breakage of the mandible .
a partial or complete breakage of the orbit of skull .
a partial or complete breakage of the larynx .
a partial or complete breakage of the trunk .
a partial or complete breakage of the rib .
a partial or complete breakage of the pelvic region of trunk .
a partial or complete breakage of the foot bone ,  such as the metatarsal or toe .
a partial or complete breakage of the manual digit .
a partial or complete breakage of the talus .
a partial or complete breakage of the maxilla .
a partial or complete breakage of the vertebra .
a partial or complete breakage of the cervical vertebra .
a partial or complete breakage of the lumbar vertebra .
a partial or complete breakage of the fused sacrum .
a partial or complete breakage of the metacarpophalangeal joint .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal phalanx of manus .
a partial or complete breakage of the middle phalanx of pes .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
a partial or complete breakage of the middle phalanx of manual digit 2 .
a partial or complete breakage of the middle phalanx of manual digit 3 .
a partial or complete breakage of the middle phalanx of manual digit 4 .
a partial or complete breakage of the middle phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a partial or complete breakage of the middle phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of femur .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of second metacarpal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of third metacarpal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of fourth metacarpal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of first metatarsal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of second metatarsal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of third metatarsal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal epiphysis of radius .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal epiphysis of first metacarpal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal epiphysis of middle phalanx of manual digit 3 .
a partial or complete breakage of the interphalangeal joint .
a partial or complete breakage of the sternal end of clavicle .
a partial or complete breakage of the epiphysis of middle phalanx of manus .
a partial or complete breakage of the lateral malleolus of fibula .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal phalanx of digit 2 .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal phalanx of digit 3 .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal phalanx of digit 4 .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal phalanx of digit 5 .
a partial or complete breakage of the fused metatarsal bones 2 - 4 .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal epiphysis of distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a fracture or multiple fractures of the humerus  ( ball )  or the glenoid  ( socket )  of the shoulder joint .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal phalanx .
a partial or complete breakage of the elbow .
a partial or complete breakage of the facial bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the head of femur .
a partial or complete breakage of the fibula .
a partial or complete breakage of the metatarsal bone of digit 5 .
a partial or complete breakage of the manual digit bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the metacarpal bone of digit 1 .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal tarsal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal tarsal bone 2 .
a partial or complete breakage of the distal tarsal bone 3 .
a partial or complete breakage of the metatarsal bone of digit 4 .
a partial or complete breakage of the metatarsal bone of digit 1 .
a partial or complete breakage of the skeleton of manual acropodium .
a partial or complete breakage of the ilium .
a partial or complete breakage of the bone of jaw .
a partial or complete breakage of the hindlimb bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the middle phalanx of manus .
a partial or complete breakage of the patella .
a partial or complete breakage of the manual digit 1 phalanx .
a partial or complete breakage of the phalanx of pes .
a partial or complete breakage of the phalanx of manus .
a partial or complete breakage of the proximal phalanx of manus .
a partial or complete breakage of the scapula .
a partial or complete breakage of the shoulder bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the sternum .
a partial or complete breakage of the tarsal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the carpal bone .
a partial or complete breakage of the nose .
a neural tube defect arises when the neural tube ,  the embryonic precursor of the brain and spinal cord ,  fails to close during neurulation .
aplasia  ( absence )  of the lymphatic vessels .
a structural anomaly of the substantia nigra ,  which is a midbrain dopaminergic nucleus which has a critical role in modulating motor movement and reward functions as part of the basal ganglia circuitry .
abnormally decreased concentration of hydrogencarbonate in the urine .
defect or defects of the morphogenesis of the left heart identifiable at birth .
reduction in the vertical distance between the upper and lower eyelids .
severe microcephaly and lissencephaly with granular surfaces with immature cortical plate ,  reduced in thickness ,  with focal polymicrogyria and immature small neurons with rare processes ,  intermingled with a considerable number of glial elements .
inflammation and thickening  ( localized fibrosis )  of the fascia ,  the tissue under the skin and over the muscle ,  typically associated with a build up of eosinophils in the muscles and tissues .
an increased amount of 3 - aminoisobutyric acid in the urine .
lymphoma that originates in the stomach itself .
a deviation from the normal serum concentration / activity of lactate dehydrogenase  ( ldh )  ,  which catalyzes the reduction of pyruvate to form lactate .
a decreased or reduced level of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase in serum .
a reduced level of the complement component c4 in the circulation .
a reduced level of the complement component c4a in circulation .
a reduced level of the complement component c4b in circulation .
blood concentration of insulin like growth factor binding protein acid labile subunit level below normal limits .
presence of an abnormal type of hemoglobin characterized by the subsitution of a glutamic acid residue at position 7 following the initial methionine residue by a valine  ( the mutation causative of sickle cell disease )  .
an elevated concentration in the blood of hemoglobin a2  ( hba2 )  ,  which is a normal variant of hemoglobin a that consists of two alpha and two delta chains and is normally present at low levels in adults but may be increased in beta thalassemia .
an abnormal amount of oxygen passes into the blood from the lungs and / or an abnormal amount of carbon dioxide passes from the blood into the lungs .
increased ability of the lungs to transfer gas from inspired air to the bloodstream as measured by the diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide  ( dlco )  test .
reduced ability of the lungs to transfer gas from inspired air to the bloodstream as measured by the diffusing capacity of the lungs for carbon monoxide  ( dlco )  test .
any abnormality of the brachial nerve plexus .
any abnormality of the lumbosacral nerve plexus .
an abnormal appearance of hair under polarizing microscopy  ( using crossed polarizers )  ,  whereby hair shafts show striking alternating bright and dark bands ,  often referred to as tiger tail banding .
a decrease in the concentration of alpha - fetoprotein in the blood circulation .
an anomaly of the size of the testicle  ( the male gonad )  .
a circumscribed ,  solid elevation of skin with no visible fluid ,  varying in size from a pinhead to less than 10mm in diameter at the widest point that is composed of localized hyperkeratosis  ( the latter may be demonstrated histopathologically )  .
des - gamma carboxyprothrombin  ( dcp )  or pro - thrombin induced by vitamin k absence - ii  ( pivka - ii )  is an abnormal prothrombin protein that is increased in the serum of patients with hcc .
inflammation in any serous cavity .
decreased diameter of eyebrow hairs .
decreased density / number of eyebrow hairs .
irregularity of the normally smooth surface of the distal metaphysis of the femur .
any abnormality in the proportion of cd3 - positive t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
anomaly in the weight - to - height squared ratio ,  calculated by dividing the individual's weight in kilograms by the square of the individual's height in meters and used as an indicator of obesity and underweight compared to averages .
abnormally decreased weight - to - height squared ratio ,  calculated by dividing the individual's weight in kilograms by the square of the individual's height in meters and used as an indicator of underweight compared to averages .
the ability of the knee to move past its normal range of motion ,   ( knee hyperextension is greater than 10 degrees )  .
subontology for annotating phenotypic features as distinctive or minor findings in patients .
in clinical parlance ,  findings are occasionally interpreted as being distinctive or minor ,  reflecting a subjective clinical impression of the importance of a feature for the differential diagnosis .
in clinical parlance ,  findings are occasionally interpreted as being distinctive or minor ,  reflecting a subjective clinical impression of the importance of a feature for the differential diagnosis .
inability of individual to reach orgasm .
elevated sexual desire .
decreased sexual desire .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort localized to the hand .
bradypnea is referring to breathing that is abnormally slow .
any morphological abnormality of the cervical vertebral column .
an early onset of puberty ,  in this case early does not refer to precocious .
malignant mesothelioma is a form of cancer that originates from the cells of the mesothelium ,  a thin tissue layer surrounding the body's internal organs .
a malignant mesothelioma originating from cells of the pleura  ( the thin layer of mesothelium lining the lungs )  .
a malignant mesothelioma originating from cells of the peritoneum  ( the thin layer of mesothelium lining the abdomen )  .
a malignant mesothelioma originating from cells of the pericardium  ( the thin layer of mesothelium lining the heart )  .
a malignant mesothelioma of the testis .
a neoplasm of the central nervous system .
a benign or malignant neoplasm  ( tumour )  of the peripheral nervous system .
a benign nerve sheath tumor composed of schwann cells .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the eye .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the breast .
an epiretinal membrane is a thin sheet of fibrous tissue that can develop on the surface of the macular area of the retina and cause a disturbance in vision .
the presence of a supernumerary ,  i .e .
folds of membranous tissue  ( peritoneum ,  mesothelium )  attached to the wall of the abdomen and enclosing viscera .
a cataract that affects the capsule of the lens .
a nuclear cataract is an opacity or clouding that develops in the lens nucleus .
a cataract which affects the layer of the lens surrounding the nucleus ,  i .e . ,  the lens cortex .
a cataract which is found in the back outer layer of the lens .
cerebral palsy describes a group of permanent disorders of the development of movement and posture ,  causing activity limitation ,  that are attributed to nonprogressive disturbances that occurred in the developing fetal or infant brain .
an abnormality of movement with a neurological basis characterized by changes in coordination and speed of voluntary movements .
a type of stereotypic behavior in which the affected individual repeatedly waves the hands up and down .
an unusually happy aspect over time which can also may be observed during inappropriate situations that should be causing for example distress ,  fear or anger .
a form of hypersociability that presents as mostly inappropriate people - orientation and friendliness towards others on an inadequate level which might go as far as being dangerous considering for example young children following strangers without restriction .
an anomalous configuration of blood vessels that shunts arterial blood directly into veins without passing through the capillaries .
a recurrent form of pancreatitis .
mislocalised thyroid gland .
an aberrant thyroid gland or ectopic thyroid located at the base of the tongue ,  just posterior to the foramen cecum as a result of a failure of the thyroid to descend .
accessory ectopic thyroid tissue arising from remnants of the thyroglossal duct anywhere along the path of the thyroglossal duct tract .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the thyroid gland .
repeated ,  individually recognizable ,  intermittent movements or movement fragments that are almost always briefly suppresable and are usually associated with awareness of an urge to perform the movement .
movement - based tics affecting discrete muscle groups .
involuntary sounds produced by moving air through the nose ,  mouth ,  or throat .
a band of bone material of decreased density forming alongside the surface of the cortical bone with thickening of the periosteum .
an abnormality of the hair of head .
scalp hair whose growth is slower than normal .
an abnormality of cortical bone leading to an abnormal thickness of the cortex of affected bones .
a broad appearance of the second toe .
a broad appearance of the third toe .
a broad appearance of the fourth toe .
a broad appearance of the fifth toe .
epiphyses of the 2nd toe are hard and dense like ivory .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the 2nd toe .
epiphyses of the 3rd toe are hard and dense like ivory .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the 3rd toe .
epiphyses of the 4th toe are hard and dense like ivory .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the 4th toe .
epiphyses of the 5th toe are hard and dense like ivory .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the 5th toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the distal phalanx of the 2nd toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the middle phalanx of the 2nd toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphysis of the proximal phalanx of the 2nd toe .
abnormality of the growth of the pubic hair .
abnormality of the growth of the axillary hair .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the distal phalanx of the 3rd toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the middle phalanx of the 3rd toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the proximal phalanx of the 3rd toe .
fragmented appearance of the epiphyses .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the distal phalanx of the 4th toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the middle phalanx of the 4th toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the proximal phalanx of the 4th toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the distal phalanx of the 5th toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the middle phalanx of the 5th toe .
the presence of abnormal punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  calcifications in the epiphyses of the proximal phalanx of the 5th toe .
an abnormal union between bones or parts of bones of the upper limbs .
the abnormal fusion of neighboring bones across a joint .
ectopic respiratory epithelium presenting as a superficial lesion in the skin usually localised unilateral in the skin of the forearm and associated with ipsilateral hand malformations .
a connective tissue neoplasm formed by proliferation of mesodermal cells .
a smooth muscle connective tissue tumor ,  which is rare type of cancer that is a malignant neoplasm of smooth muscle .
a fibroblastic sarcoma is a malignant tumor derived from fibrous connective tissue and characterized by immature proliferating fibroblasts or undifferentiated anaplastic spindle cells .
benign ,  slow - growing tumors without any metastatic potential .
osteomas are bony growths found most commonly on the skull and mandible ;  however ,  they may occur in any bone of the body .
a contraction of the diaphragm that repeats several times per minute .
hemiballismus is a rare movement disorder that is caused primarily by damage to various areas in the basal ganglia .
deposition of calcium salts in muscle tissue .
calcium deposition affecting the meninges .
the presence of mulitple lipomas located in the central nervous system .
an abnormality of the medullary cavity  ( medulla ,  innermost part )  ,  which is the central cavity of bone shafts where red bone marrow and / or yellow bone marrow  ( adipose tissue )  is stored .
the presence of dysplastic regions in metaphyseal regions .
senile plaques are extracellular deposits of amyloid in the gray matter of the brain .
a condition in which middle parts of the hands and / or feet  ( digits and meta - carpals and  - tarsals )  are missing giving a cleft appearance .
a form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the thumb or great toe .
a form of polydactyly in which the extra digit or digits are localized on the side of the fifth finger or fifth toe .
the presence of a supernumerary finger or toe  ( not a thumb or hallux )  involving the third or fourth metacarpal / tarsal with associated osseous syndactyly .
an abnormality of the structure or form of the tendons ,  also often called sinews .
the carpus consists of the scaphoid ,  lunate ,  triquetal ,  pisiform ,  captitate ,  hamate ,  trapezoid ,  and trapezium bones .
a depression located on a lip .
depression located on the vermilion of the upper lip ,  usually paramedian .
depression located paramedially on the vermilion of a lip .
an abnormality resulting from a defect or disruption of dorsoventral patterning that normally happens during early development of the limbs .
hyponasal speech is when there is an abnormally reduced nasal airflow during speech often in a setting of nasal obstruction or congestion .
a congenital branchial sinus is a remnant of the embryonic branchial arches and their intervening clefts and pouches that has failed to regress completely .
gustatory lacrimation results from an aberrant innervation of fibres from the seventh cranial nerve to the pterygopalatine ganglion which are destined originally for the submandibular ganglion .
diffuse unlocalised atrophy affecting the cerebellum .
a small ,  skin - lined tract that leads from the surface to deep within the tissues .
benign congenital lesions of the periauricular soft tissue consisting of a blind - ending narrow tube or pit .
a chronic inflammatory bowel disease that includes characteristic ulcers ,  or open sores ,  in the colon .
a chronic granulomatous inflammatory disease of the intestines that may affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus ,  causing a wide variety of symptoms .
a chronic inflammatory disease of the large intestine  ( colon ,  cecum and rectum )  .
an acute and self - limited inflammatory disease of the large intestine  ( colon ,  cecum and rectum )  .
continuous electromyographic activity of motor units at rest ,  i .e . ,  without voluntary movement of the muscles .
high frequency discharges in electromyography  ( emg )  that vary in amplitude and frequency ,  waxing and waning continuously with firing frequencies ranging from 150 / second down to 20 / second and producing a sound that has been referred to as a dive bomber sound .
an electromyographic finding associated with erratic or absent neuromuscular transmission with erratic ,  moment - to - moment changes in the shape of the motor unit potential  ( mup )  .
the presence of reduced conduction velocity of motor nerves on electromyography .
the presence of spontaneous bursts of rapidly firing potentials that recur at regular intervals of 2 - 10 per second and are unaffected by voluntary effort .
the presence of amyloid deposition in the nerves of the peripheral nervous system .
unusual regions of densely packed membranous tubules known as tubular aggregates which present as membranous inclusions ,  derived from membranes of sarcoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria ,  containing miscellaneous proteins with a variety of enzymatic activities .
the presence of inclusion bodies within the cytoplasm of muscle cells .
the presence of inclusion bodies within the nucleus of muscle cells .
ring fibers are formed by a bundle of peripheral myofibrils which are circumferentially oriented such that they encircle the internal portion of the sarcoplasm which is normal in structure and orientation .
atrophy of one side of the brain ,  characterized by findings including thinning of the cerebral cortex ,  reduced volume of the cerebral white matter with abnormal myelination ,  and enlargement of the ispilateral fourth ventricle .
hemorrhage occurring between the dura mater and the arachnoid mater .
hemorrhage occurring between the dura mater and the skull .
bands of scar - like tisssue that hve formed within a cerebral ventricle .
the presence of a germ cell tumor of the cerebrum .
cerebral inflammation involving a granulomatous response ,  i .e . ,  a non - specific inflammatory response involving granulomas ,  defined as a compact organized collection of mature mononuclear phagocytes including epithelioid and giant cells .
nuclear or cytoplasmic aggregates of stainable substances within cells of the brain .
intracellular aggregates of actin and actin - associated proteins within nerve cells .
presence of abundant argyrophilic grains and coiled bodies on microscopic examination of brain tissue .
an intraneuronal inclusion body composed of acid mucopolysaccharides .
cerebral eosinophilic ,  discrete ,  intracytoplasmatic inclusions of unknown significance .
thick ,  elongated ,  worm - like or corkscrew eosinophilic bundle that are found on h&e staining of the brain in the presence of long standing gliosis ,  occasional tumors ,  and some metabolic disorders .
an abnormality of the dentate nucleus .
juvenile aseptic necrosis comprises a group of orthopedic diseases characterized by interruption of the blood supply of a bone ,  followed by localized bony necrosis most often of the epiphyses of bones of children or teenagers .
a chronic autoimmune phenomenon characterized by fibrosis  ( or hardening )  and vascular alterations of the skin .
immunological states where the immune system produces harmful responses upon reexposure to sensitising antigens .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against cow milk protein .
fusion involving carpal and metacarpal bones .
a non - midline cleft of the upper lip on one side only .
clefting of the upper lip affecting the lateral portions of the upper lip rather than the midline / median region .
a non - midline cleft of the upper lip on the left and right sides .
nonmidline cleft palate on the left and right sides .
the proximal interphalangeal joint of the 2nd toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the proximal interphalangeal joint of the 3rd toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the proximal interphalangeal joint of the 4th toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fifth toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the distal interphalangeal joint of the 2nd toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the distal interphalangeal joint of the 3rd toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the distal interphalangeal joint of the 4th toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the distal interphalangeal joint of the 5th toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the joint between the second metatarsal and the proximal phalanx of the 2nd toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the joint between the second metatarsal and the proximal phalanx of the 3rd toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the joint between the second metatarsal and the proximal phalanx of the 4th toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
the joint between the second metatarsal and the proximal phalanx of the 5th toe cannot be straightened actively or passively .
developmental hypoplasia of the phalanx of third toe .
developmental hypoplasia of one or more phalanx of fourth toe .
developmental hypoplasia of one or more phalanx of little toe .
absence  ( agenesis )  or underdevelopment of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the 3rd toe .
absence  ( agenesis )  or underdevelopment of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the 4th toe .
absence  ( agenesis )  or underdevelopment of one or more of the proximal phalanges of the 5th toe .
developmental aplasia of the distal phalanx of third toe .
developmental aplasia of the middle phalanx of third toe .
absence of proximal phalanx of third toe ,  owing to a congenital defect of development .
developmental hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of third toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of fourth toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the distal phalanx of little toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of third toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of fourth toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the middle phalanx of the 5th toe .
abnormal reduction in length of proximal phalanx of third toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the proximal phalanx of fourth toe .
developmental hypoplasia of the proximal phalanx of fifth toe .
partial or complete duplication of distal phalanx of third toe .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of fourth toe .
partial or complete duplication of the distal phalanx of little toe .
partial or complete duplication of middle phalanx of third toe .
partial or complete duplication of middle phalanx of fourth toe .
partial or complete duplication of the middle phalanx of the 5th toe .
partial or complete duplication of proximal phalanx of third toe .
partial or complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of fourth toe .
partial or complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of fifth toe .
complete duplication of distal phalanx of third toe .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of fourth toe .
complete duplication of the distal phalanx of little toe .
complete duplication of middle phalanx of third toe .
complete duplication of middle phalanx of fourth toe .
complete duplication of the middle phalanx of the 5th toe .
complete duplication of proximal phalanx of third toe .
complete duplication of the proximal phalanx of fifth toe .
partial duplication of distal phalanx of third toe .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of fourth toe .
partial duplication of the distal phalanx of little toe .
partial duplication of middle phalanx of third toe .
partial duplication of middle phalanx of fourth toe .
partial duplication of the middle phalanx of the 5th toe .
partial duplication of proximal phalanx of third toe .
partial duplication of the proximal phalanx of fifth toe .
an abnormal morphology of the middle phalanx of the third toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
an abnormal morphology of the middle phalanx of the fourth toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
an abnormal morphology of the middle phalanx of the fifth toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
an abnormal morphology of the proximal phalanx of the third toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
an abnormal morphology of the proximal phalanx of the fourth toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
an abnormal morphology of the proximal phalanx of the fifth toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
an abnormal morphology of the distal phalanx of the third toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
an abnormal morphology of the distal phalanx of the fourth toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
an abnormal morphology of the distal phalanx of the fifth toe ,  with a short and wide phalanx that tapers distally .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the middle phalanx of the third toe .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the middle phalanx of the fourth toe .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the middle phalanx of the fifth toe .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the proximal phalanx of the third toe .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the proximal phalanx of the fourth toe .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the proximal phalanx of the fifth toe .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the distal phalanx of the third toe .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the distal phalanx of the fourth toe .
a deviation from the normal straight form of the distal phalanx of the fifth toe .
uneven increase in bone density of the middle phalanx of the fourth toe .
uneven increase in bone density of the middle phalanx of the fifth toe .
uneven increase in bone density of the proximal phalanx of the fourth toe .
uneven increase in bone density of the proximal phalanx of the fifth toe .
uneven increase in bone density of the distal phalanx of the fourth toe .
patchy  ( irregular )  increase in bone density of the distal phalanx of the fifth toe .
bony fusion of the middle and proximal phalanges of the 3rd toe .
bony fusion of the middle and proximal phalanges of the 4th toe .
bony fusion of the middle and proximal phalanges of the 5th toe .
bony fusion of the middle and proximal phalanges of the 2nd toe .
the distal interphalangeal joint and / or the proximal interphalangeal joint of the fingers cannot be extended to 180 degrees by either active or passive extension .
contractures of one ore more joints of the feet meaning chronic loss of joint motion due to structural changes in non - bony tissue .
a decreased concentration of ammonia in the blood .
any structural anomaly of mast cells ,  which are found in almost all tissues and contain numerous basophilic granules and are capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
the presence of an increased number of mast cells and cd34 +  mast cell precursors in the body .
an increased susceptibility to bronchiolitis as manifested by a history of recurrent bronchiolitis .
a reduced concentration of vitamin b1 .
a reduced concentration of vitamin b2 .
a reduced concentration of vitamin b5 .
a reduced concentration of vitamin b8 .
a reduced circulating concentration of folic acid ,  which is also known as vitamin b9 .
an anomaly in the metabolism of a vitamin .
a reduced concentration of vitamin c .
a reduced concentration of vitamin d .
a reduced concentration of vitamin e in the blood circulation .
increased frequency of urination .
the presence of a neoplasm of the ureter .
the presence of a neoplasm of the urethra .
painful or difficult urination .
absence of urine ,  clinically classified as below 50ml / day .
low output of urine ,  clinically classified as an output below 300 - 500ml / day .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the thymus .
a tumor originating from the epithelial cells of the thymus .
the presence of an abscess of the liver .
congenital duplication of all or part of a limb .
persistence of the urachal canal with drainage of urine from the bladder through the persistent allantois canal to the umbilicus .
tumor of the lung .
a rare cancer originating in the lung or pleural cavity that occurs most often in infants and young children but also has been reported in adults .
an abnormality of phosphate homeostasis or concentration in the body .
any deviation from the normal concentration in the blood circulation of a hormone that is involved in the regulation of phosphate and calcium .
the appearance of abnormal valgus deformity in one knee in association with varus deformity in the other .
inflammation of the sclera .
inflammation of the eye ,  parts of the eye or the periorbital region .
inflammation of the episclera ,  a thin layer of tissue covering the white part  ( sclera )  of the eye .
an abnormality of fascia .
inflammation of fascia ,  the tissue under the skin and over the muscle .
an anomaly of the supraorbital portion of the frontal bones .
edema affecting the region situated around the orbit of the eye .
edema in the region of the eyelids .
a hernia which occurs just below the inguinal ligament ,  where abdominal contents pass through a naturally occurring weakness called the femoral canal .
an abnormal site of the kidney .
abnormality in the process of thought including the ability to process information .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the heart .
narrowing or constriction of the inner surface  ( lumen )  of an artery .
narrowing of the carotid arteries .
an abnormality of the forebrain ,  which has as its parts the telencephalon ,  diencephalon ,  lateral ventricles and third ventricle .
eversion of a hollow organ and exposure ,  inside out ,  and protruded through the abdominal wall .
breakage  ( tear )  of a tendon .
a neoplasm of the trachea .
overgrowth of only one leg .
overgrowth of only one arm .
a growth pattern that displays an abnormal difference between the left and the right side .
undergrowth of the limbs that affects only one side .
unilateral atrophy  ( reduction in size )  of a leg .
unilateral atrophy  ( reduction in size )  of an arm .
a difference in length or diameter between the left and right leg .
difference in length or size between the right and left arm .
duplication of the spinal cord .
coexistence of two hemicords ,  at variable levels ,  causing splaying of the posterior vertebral elements .
triplication of the spinal cord  -  extremely rare .
dilation of central canal from incomplete fusion of the posterior columns or persistence of the primitive large canal of the embryo .
congenital absence of the spinal cord .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the endocrine system .
an abnormality of the formation and mineralization of one or more vertebrae .
a tumor formed from the endocrine  ( argentaffin )  cells of the mucosal lining of a variety of organs including the stomach and intestine .
a cardiac diverticulum is a rare congenital malformation which is either fibrous or muscular .
a fibrous cardiac diverticulum refers to an aneurysm and usually appears as an isolated congenital anomaly .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the biliary system .
the presence of a neoplasm of the gallbladder .
a transient visual disturbance that is typically caused by a circulatory ,  ocular or neurological underlying condition .
inflammation of the urinary bladder .
localized loss of fat tissue .
telangiectasia of the mucosa ,  the mucous membranes which are involved in absorption and secretion that line cavities that are exposed to the external environment and internal organs .
an abnormal change  ( metaplasia )  in the cells of the inferior portion of the esophagus .
an abnormal enlargement of the renal calices ,  the system of ducts of the kidney that collect urine .
polypoidal masses arising mainly from the mucous membranes of the nose and paranasal sinuses .
a rupture of the cornea through which a portion of the iris protrudes .
an inflammation of the endocardium ,  the inner layer of the heart ,  which usually involves the heart valves .
presence of small ,  permanently dilated blood vessels near the surface of the skin ,  visible as small focal red lesions .
patients who routinely have greater than 20 leukocytes per microliter ,  but have abacterial urine ,  are said to have sterile pyuria .
the foreskin becomes trapped behind the glans penis ,  and cannot be pulled back to its normal flaccid position covering the glans penis .
the presence of a fistula affecting the genitourinary system .
the presence of a fistula affecting the rectum .
the presence of an abscess of the peritoneum .
thin  ( 2 - 3mm )  membranes of normal esophageal tissue consisting of mucosa and submucosa that can be congenital or acquired .
an abnormal forward - flexed posture e .g .
the nostrils  ( the paired channels of the nose )  are not present .
fluid accumulation in the lungs .
two penile structures ,  separated from the tip to the base of the shaft .
a partial or complete positional exchange between the penis and the scrotum ,  with positioning of the scrotum superior to the penis .
an acute and life - threatening complication of pregnancy ,  which is characterized by the appearance of tonic - clonic seizures ,  usually in a patient who had developed pre - eclampsia .
pregnancy - induced hypertension in association with significant amounts of protein in the urine .
pregnancy - induced toxic reactions of the mother that can be as harmless as slight maternal hypertension or as life threatening as eclampsia .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the lip .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the respiratory system .
pain during menstruation that interferes with daily activities .
bleeding at irregular intervals .
a medical history of exposure during the fetal period to hyperphenylalaninemia because the mother had phenylketonuria with inadequate control during pregnancy .
the presence of many cysts in the glomerulus of the kidney related to dilatation of the bowman's capsule .
neoplasm involving odontogenic cells ,  an odontogenic tumor .
death between the age of 16 and 40 years .
a general term for inflammation of the muscles without respect to the underlying cause .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the ovary .
the presence of a teratoma of the testis .
the presence of a seminoma ,  an undifferentiated germ cell tumor of the testis .
the presence of a neoplasm of the testis with origin in a leydig cell .
the presence of a neoplasm of the testis with origin in a sertoli cell .
a type of undifferentiated germ cell tumor that may be benign or malignant .
the presence of a dysgerminoma ,  i .e . ,  an undifferentiated germ cell tumor of the ovary .
a seizure during pregnancy .
a displacement of the external urethral orifice from its normal position  ( in males normally placed at the tip of glans penis ,  in females normally placed about 2 .5 cm behind the glans clitoridis and immediately in front of that of the vagina )  .
the presence of a diverticulum of the esophagus .
a congenital malformation with a cleft  ( gap or opening )  in the midline of the face .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the adrenal gland .
the presence of a piece lung tissue which is not attached to the pulmonary blood supply and does not communicate with the other lung tissue  ( not connected to the standard bronchial airways and not performing a function in respiration )  .
inflammation of the esophagus .
a tumor that originates from a neuroendocrine cell .
a paraganglioma  ( a neuroendocrine neoplasm )  originating in a carotid artery .
a rare paranglioma of the lung ,  tumors that arise from extra - adrenal chromaffin cells .
a neoplasm originating in the pharynx .
a multidimensional but common male sexual dysfunction that involves an alteration in any of the components of the erectile response ,  including organic ,  relational and psychological .
presence of a cyst  ( sac - like structure )  located in the larynx .
the presence of a neoplasm of the adrenal cortex .
the presence of a neoplasm of the adrenal medulla .
an anomaly of the color of the nail .
brown or black discoloration of the nails .
anterior vaginal wall prolapse with bulging of the bladder into the vagina .
inflammation of the thyroid gland .
an autoimmune disease where the thyroid is overactive ,  producing an excessive amount of thyroid hormones  ( a serious metabolic imbalance known as hyperthyroidism and thyrotoxicosis )  .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the tongue .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the oral cavity .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the vagina .
a chronic condition in which the pancreas produces little or no insulin .
inflammation of the optic nerve .
optic neuritis that occurs in the section of the optic nerve located behind the eyeball .
failure to close of the chest and abdominal wall likely caused by the failure of the ventral wall to close during week 4 of development .
congenital protrusion of the abdominal or thoracic viscera ,  usually with a defect of the sternum and ribs as well as of the abdominal walls .
a bacterial infection and inflammation of the skin und subcutaneous tissues .
a movement disorder which consists of effects including diminished voluntary movements and the presence of involuntary movements .
a neuropathic disorder characterized by episodes of intense pain in the face ,  originating from the trigeminal nerve .
inflammation of cartilage .
a congenital malformation characterized by the union or approximation of the ears in front of the neck ,  often accompanied by the absence or defective development of the lower jaw .
rapid swelling  ( edema )  of the dermis ,  subcutaneous tissue ,  mucosa and submucosal tissues of the skin of the face ,  normally around the mouth ,  and the mucosa of the mouth and / or throat ,  as well as the tongue during a period of minutes to several hours .
a developmental disorder in which there is a duplication the entire intestine or of a portion of the intestine .
an abnormality of the pigmentation of the mucosa of the mouth .
coarse appearance of the components of the network of osseous tissue that makes up the cancellous structure of a bone ,  i .e . ,  thickening of the  ( usually fine )  white lines that are produced by trabeculae in radiograms .
abnormal structure or form of trabecular bone .
the presence of a hernia of the vagina .
varicosity of veins in the vulval region .
the presence of an increased degree of wrinkling  ( irregular folds and indentations )  of the skin as compared with age - related norms .
a developmental disorder in which there is a duplication of a portion of the muscle and submucosa of the esophagus without epithelial duplication .
a congenital absence or considerable underdevelopment of the trachea such that communication between the larynx proximally and the alveoli of the lungs distally is lacking .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of a salivary gland .
an abnormality of sharpey's fibers  ( bone fibers ,  or perforating fibers )  ,  which are a matrix of connective tissue consisting of bundles of strong collagenous fibres connecting periosteum to bone .
the presence of an extra auricle on one or both sides of the head .
a decreased anteroposterior thickness of the cornea .
an increase in the degree of curvature of the cornea compared to normal .
tremulousness of the iris on movement of the eye ,  occurring in subluxation of the lens .
tibial torsion is inward twisting  ( medial rotation )   ( pato:0002155 )  of the tibia .
excess deposit and expansion of adipose tissue in an unusual pattern which cannot be lost through diet and exercise  .
a form of malignant cancer of the connective tissue surrounding nerves .
the presence of neurofibromas in the subcutis .
an abnormality of the arachnoid mater .
an abnormality of the pia mater .
an extra - parenchymal and intra - arachnoidal collection of fluid with a composition similar to that of cerebrospinal fluid .
a form of loss of vision caused by damage to the visual cortex rather than a defect in the eye .
an abnormality of the glia cell .
one of the three types of glia cells that ,  with the nerve cells ,  compose the central nervous system and are characterized by sheetlike processes that wrap around individual axons to form the myelin sheath of nerve fibers .
an abnormality of astrocytes .
an abnormality of the microglial cells .
acting on the spur of the moment in response to immediate stimuli ;  acting on a momentary basis without a plan or consideration of outcomes ;  difficulty establishing or following plans ;  a sense of urgency and self - harming behavior under emotional distress .
an abnormality of the thoracic vertebral column .
any structural abnormality of the lumbar vertebral column .
aggression towards oneself .
a sectoral indentation of the crystalline lens ,  usually due to zonular weakness or absence .
swelling of lymph nodes within the mediastinum ,  the central compartment of the thoracic cavities that contains the heart and the great vessels ,  the esophagus ,  and trachea and other structures including lymph nodes .
an abnormality of coagulation associated with an increased risk of thrombosis .
thickening and hardening of the epidermis seen with exaggeration of normal skin lines .
a systemic disease which can present with cutaneous lesions with or without internal involvement .
an excessive number of histiocytes  ( tissue macrophages )  .
a rare congenital cystic lesion of the lungs in the mediastinum .
a horizontal cleft of the face ,  varying from slight widening of the mouth ,  to a cleft extending to the ear .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the parathyroid gland .
an anomaly of one or more epiphyses of one or more vertebrae .
an abnormality of the soft palate .
abnormal eating habit with excessive or insufficient consumption of food or any other abnormal pattern of food consumption .
a form of anomalous eating behavior characterized by binge eating is followed by self - induced vomiting or other compensatory behavior intended to prevent weight gain  ( purging ,  fasting or exercising or a combination of these )  .
a benign or malignant neoplasm  ( tumour )  originating in the vascular system .
an anomaly of the joint between the trochlear notch of ulna and the trochlea of humerus ,  which is part of the elbow joint .
a type of macrodactyly affecting one or several fingers .
a type of macrodactyly affecting one or several toes .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the chest .
collapse of part of a lung associated with absence of inflation  ( air )  of that part .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the esophagus .
formation of abnormal lobules  ( small masses of tissue )  in the liver .
a mental disorder characterized by a disintegration of thought processes and of emotional responsiveness .
a state of abnormally elevated or irritable mood ,  arousal ,  and or energy levels .
a rare pediatric carcinoma of the pancreas .
a serious and potentially life - threatening condition that arises when a considerable mass of body tissue dies  ( necrosis )  .
terminal broadening of the fingers  ( distal phalanges of the fingers )  .
terminal broadening of the toes  ( distal phalanges of the toes )  .
bleeding into the biliary tree .
an anomaly of the lymphatic system ,  a network of lymphatic vessels that carry a clear fluid called lymph unidirectionally towards either the right lymphatic duct or the thoracic duct ,  which in turn drain into the right and left subclavian veins respectively .
lymphangiomas are rare congenital malformations consisting of focal proliferations of well - differentiated lymphatic tissue in multi cystic or sponge like structures .
an abnormality of the tonsils .
a structural anomaly of the vessel that contains or conveys lymph fluid .
an abnormality of the placenta ,  the organ that connects the developing fetus to the uterine wall to enable nutrient uptake ,  waste elimination ,  and gas exchange .
a malignant ,  trophoblastic and aggressive cancer ,  usually of the placenta .
excessively active peristalsis  ( wave of contraction of the tubular organs of the gastrointestinal tract )  marked by excessive rapidity of the passage of food through the stomach and intestine .
reduced or inadequate peristalsis ,  with resultant slow passage of contents through the digestive tract .
excessive growth or abnormal thickening of bone tissue .
a widening or ballooning of the dural sac surrounding the spinal cord usually at the lumbosacral level .
an increased susceptibility to pharyngitis as manifested by a history of recurrent pharyngitis .
an exostosis is a benign growth the projects outward from the bone surface .
increased level of cryoglobulins in the blood .
a rare birth defect in women where the urethra and vagina both open into a common channel .
a hamartoma  ( disordered proliferation of mature tissues )  of the conjunctiva .
an anomaly of the sacroiliac joint ,  which connects the base of the spine  ( sacrum )  to the ilium  ( a hip bone )  .
failure to develop and congenital absence of the breast .
lack of separation of the upper and lower lips .
a bony protrusion present on the midline of the hard palate .
the loss of intercellular connections ,  such as desmosomes ,  resulting in loss of cohesion between keratinocytes .
the absence of the normal curvature of the vertebral column .
testicular inflammation .
an abnormality of the development of the toenails .
an abnormality of the development of the fingernails .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the middle ear .
a congenital underdevelopment  ( aplasia or hypoplasia )  of the pancreas .
aplasia of the pancreas .
abnormal anatomical location of the stomach .
an abnormality of the region around the nails of the fingers or toes .
flesh - colored papule in or around the nail bed .
systemic inflammatory response to infection .
the middle finger is more than 2 sd above the mean for newborns 27 to 41 weeks ega or above the 97th centile for children from birth to 16 years of age and the five digits retain their normal length proportions relative to each other  ( i .e . ,  it is not the case that the middle finger is the only lengthened digit )  ,  or ,  fingers that appear disproportionately long compared to the palm of the hand .
an outpouching of the gastric wall .
pain or discomfort of the scalp elicited by palpation .
congenital absence or underdevelopment of the colon .
noticeably unpleasant odors exhaled in breathing .
testicular torsion is when the spermatic cord to a testicle twists ,  cutting off the blood supply .
the presence of hypertension related to stenosis of the renal artery .
increased inferior to superior extent of the thorax .
an abnormal connection between the gut and another hollow organ ,  such as the bladder ,  urethra ,  vagina ,  or other regions of the gastrointestinal tract .
inflammatory or noninflammatory diseases affecting the glomeruli of the nephron .
the prolapse of the female urethra into the vagina .
a rectocele results from a tear in the rectovaginal septum  ( which is normally a tough ,  fibrous ,  sheet - like divider between the rectum and vagina )  .
inflammation of the lip .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the nail .
increase in the number or proportion of lymphocytes in the blood .
an abnormal increase in the total number of t cells detected in the blood .
spontaneous flow of milk from the breast ,  unassociated with childbirth or nursing .
vitamin k is a fat - soluble vitamin with a role in promoting the coagulation cascade .
deposits of various size ,  shape ,  consistency ,  refractive index ,  and motility within the eye's vitreous humour ,  which is normally transparent .
the presence of a neoplasm of the small intestine .
the presence of a neoplasm of the large intestine .
a tumor that originates in the pineal gland ,  has moderate cellularity and tends to form rosette patterns .
symmetrical vermiform facial atrophy that affects mainly the forehead ,  the chin ,  the ear lobes and helices .
an increased susceptibility to cutaneous abscess formation ,  as manifested by a medical history of recurrent cutaneous abscesses .
absence of the liver owing to a failure of the liver to develop .
absence or underdevelopment of the eyebrow .
a developmental anomaly wtih a small tubular or saccular midline stomach .
underdevelopment of the optic nerve and absence of the septum pellucidum .
an acute hypersensitivity reaction due to exposure to a previously encountered antigen .
a chronic ,  relapsing ,  pustular eruption that is localized to the palms and soles .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the male external genitalia .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the scrotum .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of the penis .
an abnormality of emotional behaviour .
an abnormality of fear / anxiety - related behavior ,  which may relate to either abnormally reduced fear / anxiety - related response or increased fear / anxiety - related response .
underdevelopment of the areola ,  the circular area of pigmented skin surrounding the nipple .
absence of the musculature .
hypoplasia of the triceps muscle .
decreased ossification of the vertebral bodies .
an abnormally flat sella turcica .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of the celiac artery .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of the superior mesenteric artery  .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of the inferior mesenteric artery  .
increase in bone density of the vertebral body .
an abnormally short femoral neck  ( which is the process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft )  .
increased width of the ischium ,  which forms the lower and back part of the hip bone .
underdevelopment of the iliac bones .
the narrowing or partial blockage of a portion of the duodenum .
the presence of telangiectases on the skin of palm of hand .
telangiectases  ( small dilated blood vessels )  located on the skin of sole of foot .
an abnormality of the palm ,  that is ,  of the front of the hand .
an abnormality of the plantar part of foot ,  that is of the soles of the feet .
increased density of hairs ,  i .e . ,  and elevated number of hairs per unit area .
increased length and width of one half of the tounge .
skin crease extending from below the inner canthus laterally along the malar process of the maxilla and zygoma .
cystic ,  urine - containing intrarenal cavities lined with transitional cell epithelium that communicate through a narrow channel with the collecting system .
abnormally persistent clusters of embryonal cells ,  representing microscopic malformations  ( dysplasias )  of the developing kidney .
congenital mesoblastic nephroma is a type of kidney tumor that is usually found before birth by ultrasound or within the first 3 months of life .
a rare ,  benign soft tissue tumor that typically occurs within the first two years of life .
hamartoma - like growth in the placenta consisting of blood vessels .
a scoliosis which is the results of a difference in leg length  ( which might be due to hemihypertrophy or hemihypotrophy of a leg )  and the resulting tilting of the pelvis .
persistence of the embryonic dorsal or sciatic vein system that normally should have involuted around the tenth to twelfth week of intrauterine life .
an abnormality in the placement of the ocular globe  ( eyeball )  .
an abnormality in the size of the ocular globe  ( eyeball )  .
an abnormality of the common bile duct ,  a tube - like anatomic structure in the human gastrointestinal tract ,  formed by the union of the common hepatic duct and the cystic duct from the gall bladder .
a cleft of the xiphoid process of the sternum .
an abnormality of the xiphoid process of the sternum .
increased prominence of the xiphoid process of the sternum .
increased side - to - side width of the xiphoid process of the sternum .
the presence of multiple rectal hyperplastic / adenomatous polyps .
connective tissue nevi are hamartomas in which one or several components of the dermis is altered .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the fingers .
an elevation of bone density in the distal phalanx of the thumb .
an elevation of bone density in the proximal phalanx of the thumb .
an elevation in bone density in one or more distal phalanges of the fingers .
an elevation in bone density in one or more middle phalanges of the fingers .
an elevation in bone density in one or more proximal phalanges of the fingers .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the second finger .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the third finger .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the fourth finger .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the fifth finger .
an increase in bone density within the clavicle .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the toes .
an elevation in bone density in one or more foot bones .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the second toe .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the third toe .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the fourth toe .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the fifth toe .
an elevation in bone density in one or more phalanges of the big toe .
an elevation in bone density in the proximal phalanx of the second toe .
an elevation in bone density in the proximal phalanx of the third toe .
an elevation in bone density in the middle phalanx of the third toe .
an elevation in bone density in the distal phalanx of the third toe .
an elevation in bone density in one or more proximal phalanges of the toes .
an elevation in bone density in one or more middle phalanges of the toes .
an elevation in bone density in one or more distal phalanges of the toes .
an increase in size of the subarachnoid space associated with the lateral cerebral sulcus  ( sylvian fissure )  .
underdevelopment of the operculum .
any structural abnormality of the medulla of the kidney .
decreased width of the foramen obturatorium .
dense radiopaque bands of bone which are thicker than the adjacent diaphyseal cortex and may form at the metaphysis of growing bones .
increase in size of the hippocampus .
different levels of maturation of different bones .
a type of dysharmonic skeletal maturation in which there is an acceleration in skeletal maturation whose degree differs markedly in different bones .
flaring  ( widening )  of the epiphysis .
the presence of an abnormal shape of the palpebral fissure .
an abnormal size of the palpebral fissures for example unusually long or short palpebral fissures .
the presence of multiple polyps in the intestine .
a tumor  ( abnormal growth of tissue )  of adipose tissue .
overgrowth of the stratum corneum characterized by flesh - coloured or slightly pigmented smooth or warty papules on the upper surface of hands and feet .
congenital defect with failure of the development of the cerebral white matter .
a type of anomalous trichromacy associated with defective long - wavelength - sensitive  ( l )  cones ,  causing the sensitivity spectrum to be shifted toward medium wavelengths .
an erosion or abrasion of the cornea's outermost layer of epithelial cells .
low set ,  steeply sloping shoulders .
choroid plexus papilloma is a histologically benign neoplasm located in the ventricular system of the choroid plexus .
a painful and harmful medical condition in which the erect penis doesn't return to its flaccid state ,  despite the absence of both physical and psychological stimulation ,  within four hours .
the presence of premature sister chromatid segregation .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the mandible .
an unpleasant sensation characterized by physical discomfort  ( such as pricking ,  throbbing ,  or aching )  localized to the eye .
a diffuse ,  non - pitting edema and thickening of the skin usually on the anterior aspect of the lower legs spreading to the dorsum of the feet .
grey - green or brownish - pigmented ring in the deep epithelial layers at the outer border of the cornea .
a circumscribed ,  solid elevation of skin with no visible fluid ,  varying in size from a pinhead to less than 10mm in diameter at the widest point .
a plaque is a solid ,  raised ,  plateau - like  ( flat - topped )  lesion greater than 1 cm in diameter .
morphologically similar to a papule ,  but greater than either 10mm in both width and depth ,  and most frequently centered in the dermis or subcutaneous fat .
a circumscribed ,  fluid - containing ,  epidermal elevation generally considered less than 10mm in diameter at the widest point .
a small elevation of the skin containing cloudy or purulent material usually consisting of necrotic inflammatory cells .
nontender ,  round and firm ,  but slightly compressible ,  intradermal or subcutaneous cyst measuring 0 .5 - 5 cm in diameter .
a discontinuity of the skin exhibiting incomplete loss of the epidermis ,  a lesion that is moist ,  circumscribed ,  and usually depressed .
a discontinuity of the skin exhibiting complete loss of the epidermis and often portions of the dermis and even subcutaneous fat .
warts ,  benign growths on the skin or mucous membranes that cause cosmetic problems as well as pain and discomfort .
a clonal disorder of keratinization with one or multiple atrophic patches surrounded by a clinically and histologically distinctive hyperkeratotic ridgelike border called the cornoid lamella .
the presence of a characteristic high - pitched cry that sounds similar to the meowing of a kitten .
inflammation of the cartilage of the external ear .
shortening of a leg affecting only one side .
disproportionately small hand .
scar tissue in the macula .
an aberrant pupillary response characterized by  ( i )  constriction of pupils of both eyes when the light stimulus is applied to the normal eye ,  and  ( ii )  dilatation of pupils of both eyes when the light stimulus is rapidly transferred from the normal eye  ( after brief light exposure to the normal eye )  to the affected eye .
multiple abnormal growths that arise from the lining of the large intestine  ( colon or rectum )  and protrude into the intestinal lumen .
asymmetry between the two irides or asymmetry between different parts of one iris .
repeated episodes of abortion  ( expulsion of the product of fertilization before completing the term of gestation )  without deliberate interference .
a type of vitreoretinal degeneration with manifestations that are concentrated at the periphery of the retina .
intermittent episodes of paralysis of all four limbs .
chronic hepatitis characterized by parenchymal inflammation with formation of large multinucleated hepatocytes in response to a variety of insults to the liver .
a facial appearance characterized by a permanently or nearly permanently opened mouth ,  in which the upper lip is tented in a way that the opened mouth has the appearance of a triangle .
blisters arising in the mouth .
lack of skin pigmentation  ( coloring )  .
absence of nail of little finger .
metabolic alkalosis is defined as a disease state where the ph is elevated to greater than 7 .45 secondary to some metabolic process .
increased susceptibility to upper and lower respiratory tract infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of upper and lower respiratory tract infections .
acute hepatic injury resulting from inflammation typically accompanied by increased serum alanine transaminase activity .
chronic hepatitis associated with recurrent clinical exacerbations ,  extrahepatic manifestations ,  and progression to cirrhosis .
hepatitis that lasts for more than six months .
chronic hepatitis associated with infection by cryptosporidia ,  as demonstrated  ( for example )  by immunohistochemistry of liver tissue .
any complex of structural ,  architectural ,  contractile or electrophysiological changes affecting the atria with the potential to produce clinically relevant manifestations .
thickening of the heart walls in both ventricles .
a condition in which epileptiform abnormalities are believed to contribute to the progressive disturbance in cerebral function .
an increase of medial mucoid extracellular matrix creating translamellar and / or intralamellar expansions including extracellular pools as noted on an h&e stain and / or a stain to highlight extracellular matrix material  ( movat's pentachrome ,  alcian blue ,  etc .
a reduction in the number of nerve cells in the basal ganglia .
an increased lymphocyte count in the cerebrospinal fluid .
multifocal dense infiltrates of mast cells in cutaneous tissue .
increased vertical distance from the vermillion border of the lower lip to the inferior - most point of the chin .
vertical crease fold situated below the vermilion border of the lower lip and above the fatty pad of the chin with the face at rest .
folds or ridges within the concha that are distinct from the crus helix .
absence of a localized portion of the ear that cannot be described by a more precise term  ( e .g . ,  absent ear lobe )  .
median longitudinal ear length greater than two sd above the mean determined by the maximal distance from the superior aspect to the inferior aspect of the external ear .
median longitudinal ear length less than two sd above the mean determined by the maximal distance from the superior aspect to the inferior aspect of the external ear .
frequent menses ;  menstrual cycles lasting less than 21 days .
prolonged / excessive menses and bleeding at irregular intervals .
an abnormality of the vomer .
alveolar cleft is a tornado - shaped bone defect in the maxillary arch .
abnormality of the first branch of the internal carotid artery .
any abnormality of the part of the nervous system that consists of the nerves and ganglia outside of the brain and spinal cord .
any abnormality of the part of the peripheral nervous system associated with sensation and skeletal muscle voluntary control of body movements .
any abnormality of the somatic nerve plexus .
any abnormality of the masticatory muscle .
any abnormality of the mouth floor .
any abnormality of the submandibular region ,  the region between the mandible and the hyoid bone contains the submandibular and sublingual glands ,  suprahyoid muscles ,  submandibular ganglion ,  and lingual artery .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous system .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the peripheral autonomic nervous system .
an abnormality of nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous system of the cranium .
inflammation or infection of the external auditory canal  ( eac )  ,  the auricle ,  or both .
increased susceptibility to ear infections ,  as manifested by recurrent episodes of ear infections .
pain that is localized to the region of the upper abdomen immediately below the ribs .
body odor characterized by an offensive body odor and the smell of rotting fish due to the excessive excretion of trimethylamine  ( tma )  in the urine ,  sweat ,  and breath of affected individuals .
pungent body odor .
a fish odor in the vaginal area ,  that is characteristic of bacterial vaginosis  ( bv )  ,  and is due to trimethylamine  ( tma )  .
an anomalous amount or location of cell junction proteins such as plakoglobin or cx43 .
any abnormality of the periodontium .
a decrease in the amount of alveolar bone around the root of a tooth .
recurrent episodes of oral herpes ,  typically characterized by blisters or ulcers on the gums ,  lips and / or tongue caused by herpes virus .
a gap in the lip or lips .
soft and hard - palate submucous clefts are characterized by bony defects in the midline of the soft and hard palate that are covered by the lining  ( ie mucous membrane )  of the roof of the mouth .
one sided alveolar cleft of the maxilla .
nonmidline alveolar cleft of the maxilla .
any abnormality in the activation of t cells ,  i .e .
any structural anomaly of the bile - secreting organ that is important for detoxification ,  for fat ,  carbohydrate ,  and protein metabolism ,  and for glycogen storage .
any structural anomaly of the hollow epithelial tube found on the dorsal side of the vertebrate embryo that develops into the central nervous system  ( i .e .
a decrease in the level of 1 , 5 anhydroglucitol in the serum .
an increase in the level of allantoin in the serum .
an increase in the level of gaba in the serum .
a decrease in the level of gaba in the serum .
a decrease in the level of erythritol in the urine .
a decrease in the level of erythritol in the cerebrospinal fluid .
an increase in the level of d - threitol in the plasma .
an increase in the level of d - threitol in the cerebrospinal fluid .
an increase in the level of d - threitol in the urine .
a decrease in the level of d - mannose in the urine .
an increase in the level of galactitol in the plasma .
an increase in the level of galactitol in the urine .
an increase in the level of galactonate in the red blood cells .
an increase in the level of galactitol in the red blood cells .
an increase in the level of hippuric acid in the blood .
an increase in the level of hippuric acid in the urine .
an increase in the level of l - fucose in the urine .
an increase in the level of l - glutamic acid in the blood .
an increase in the level of propylene glycol in the blood .
an increase in the level of ribitol in the urine .
an increase in the level of ribitol in the cerebral spinal fluid .
an increase in the level of ribose in the urine .
an increase in the level of ribose in the cerebrospinal fluid .
an increase in the level of xylitol in the urine .
an increase in the level of xylitol in the cerebrospinal fluid .
an increase in the level of l - pyroglutamic acid in the urine .
urticaria characterized by spontaneously recurring hives for 6 weeks or longer .
urticaria caused by physical agents ,  such as heat ,  cold ,  light ,  friction .
urticaria may be caused by cold temperatures .
a form of physical urticaria ,  in which contact with water ,  regardless of its temperature and source ,  evokes pruritic follicular wheals on the skin .
urticaria in response to exposure to ultraviolet - a  ( uva )  ,  ultraviolet - b  ( uvb )  ,  visible and rarely infrared light .
urticaria in response to dermal vibration ,  with coincident degranulation of mast cells and increased histamine levels in serum .
anaphylaxis after physical activity .
an abnormality in the biotinidase level ,  an enzyme that releases biotin from biocytin ,  the product of biotin - dependent carboxylases degradation .
a decrease in the biotinidase level ,  an enzyme that releases biotin from biocytin ,  the product of biotin - dependent carboxylases degradation .
an increase in biotinidase level ,  an enzyme that releases biotin from biocytin ,  the product of biotin - dependent carboxylases degradation .
infiltration of eosinophils in the stomach mucosa ,  that is diagnosed by an upper endoscopy and microscopy that shows more than 20 eosinophils per high - power field in association with peripheral eosinophilia and the absence of secondary cause of eosinophilia .
a rare form of anaphylaxis for which triggers cannot be identified despite a detailed history and careful diagnostic assessment .
a form of anaphylaxis that is triggered by intake of drugs or medications .
infiltration of numerous eosinophils  ( usually greater than 15 per high power field )  into the squamous epithelium of the esophagus ,  and layering of eosinophils on the surface layer of the esophagus .
the formation of small localized collection of eosinophiles  ( an eosinophilic microabscess )  in the esophagus .
an increase in the level of methylsuccinic acid in the urine .
an increase in the level of myristic acid in the serum .
an increase in the level of n - acetylneuraminic acid in the urine .
an increase in the level of n - acetylneuraminic acid in cultured fibroblasts .
an increase in the level of o - phosphoethanolamine in the urine .
a defect in the of the process of interstrand cross - link repair: removal of a dna interstrand crosslink  ( a covalent attachment of dna bases on opposite strands of the dna )  and restoration of the dna .
any abnormality of the chest muscles .
any abnormality of the back muscles .
any abnormality of the shoulder muscles .
partial or complete wasting  ( loss )  of hippocampus tissue that was once present .
increased concentration of cotinine in urine .
the presence of a xenobiotic in blood .
an increased concentration of tropnin i in the blood ,  which is a cardiac regulatory protein that controls the calcium mediated interaction between actin and myosin .
an increased concentration of tropnin t in the blood ,  which is a cardiac regulatory protein that controls the calcium mediated interaction between actin and myosin .
an increase in the level of ketone bodies in the blood .
an anomaly in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase .
an anomaly in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in the blood .
an increase in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in the blood .
a decrease in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in the blood .
an anomaly in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in a dried blood spot .
an increase in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in a dried blood spot .
a decrease in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in a dried blood spot .
an anomaly in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in leukocytes .
an anomaly in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in red blood cells .
an anomaly in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in tissue .
an increase in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in tissue .
a decrease in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in tissue .
a decrease in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in red blood cells .
an increase in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in red blood cells .
a decrease in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in leukocytes .
an increase in the level of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase in leukocytes .
an abnormality in uridine diphosphate glucose - 4 - epimerase level ,  an enzyme that catalyzes the reaction: udp - glucose = udp - galactose .
an abnormality in uridine diphosphate glucose - 4 - epimerase level in plasma .
an increase in uridine diphosphate glucose - 4 - epimerase level in plasma .
a decrease in uridine diphosphate glucose - 4 - epimerase level in plasma .
an abnormality in uridine diphosphate glucose - 4 - epimerase level in red blood cells .
an increase in uridine diphosphate glucose - 4 - epimerase level in red blood cells .
a decrease in uridine diphosphate glucose - 4 - epimerase level in red blood cells .
increased concentration of urate in the cerebrospinal fluid .
detection of barbiturate metabolites such as phenobarbital in meconium .
detection of barbiturate metabolites such as phenobarbital in the hair .
detection of barbiturate metabolites such as phenobarbital in the stool .
detection of barbiturate metabolites such as phenobarbital in the gastric fluid .
an increase in the length of time required for food to pass through the intestines .
any deviation from the normal concentration of nicotinurate in the blood .
an increased amount of nicotinurate in the blood .
detection of methadone or its metabolite 2 - ethylidene - 1 , 5 - dimethyl - 3 , 3 -  diphenylpyrrolidine  ( eddp )  in plasma or serum .
detection of cotinine ,  an alkaloid found in tobacco and the predominant metabolite of nicotine ,  in plasma or serum .
a reduced concentration of folic acid ,  which is also known as vitamin b9 in the cerebrospinal fluid .
an abnormality in any umbilical cord measurement performed after birth ,  such as the blood gas level .
an abnormally high level of blood oxygen in the cord blood .
an abnormally low level of blood oxygen in the cord blood .
abnormally elevated blood carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  level in the cord blood .
abnormally decreased blood carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  level in the cord blood .
an abnormal concentration of 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate in the blood .
a decreased concentration of 5 - methyltetrahydrofolate in the blood .
abnormally small dimension of the maxilla  ( upper jaw )  relative to the mandible  ( lower jaw )  .
abnormally small dimension of the mandible  ( lower jaw )  relative to the maxilla  ( upper jaw )  .
increased level of ige antibody against dairy proteins ,  including casein ,  alpha - lactalbumin ,  beta - lactoglobulin or bovine serum albumin contained in cow ,  sheep or goat milk and milk products .
increased level of ige antibody against animal proteins ,  such as albumins that are present in animal hair ,  dander ,  shed skin ,  saliva and urine .
increased level of ige antibody against seafood ,  including fish ,  shrimp ,  lobster ,  crab ,  squid and abalone .
increased level of ige antibody against dust mites ,  such as house dust mites .
increased level of ige antibody against bacteria .
increased level of ige antibody against a drug or class of drugs ,  such as antibiotics .
increased level of ige antibody against feathers ,  which could be indicative of an allergy against feathers themselves ,  or mite allergens present in feathers .
increased level of ige antibody against proteins found in foods ,  such as milk ,  egg ,  soy ,  wheat ,  peanut ,  treenut ,  fish ,  and shellfish .
increased level of ige antibody against a plant based food allergen ,  including vegetables and fruits .
increased level of ige antibody against gluten ,  a protein found in wheat ,  barley ,  and rye .
increased level of ige antibody against nut food products such as peanuts or tree nuts ,  such as hazelnuts ,  walnuts ,  cashews ,  and almonds .
increased level of ige antibody against eggs ,  including egg whites ,  egg yolks ,  and egg proteins such as ovoalbumin and ovomucoid .
increased level of ige antibody against fungus ,  such as molds like zygomycota ,  ascomycota and deuteromycota .
increased level of ige antibody against meat ,  such as mammalian meat ,  including beef or pork ,  or poultry ,  like duck or chicken .
increased level of ige antibody against parasites ,  such as helminths  ( parasitic worms ,  such as ascaris lumbricoides ,  trichuris trichiura ,  ancylostoma duodenalis ,  necator americanus ,  strongyloides stercoralis )  or parasites such as toxoplasma gondii .
increased level of ige antibody against antigens from insects such as moths ,  mosquitos ,  or cockroaches .
increased level of ige antibody against venom from insects such as bees ,  wasps ,  hornets ,  yellowjackets .
increased level of ige antibody against antigens from plants and products derived from plants ,  such as wood or pollen .
detection of norcotinine ,  a metabolite of nicotine ,  in urine .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of iga immunoglobulin in blood .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of ige immunoglobulin in blood .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of igg immunoglobulin in blood .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of igm immunoglobulin in blood .
an abnormal deviation from normal levels of igd immunoglobulin in blood .
an abnormally decreased level of immunoglobulin d  ( igd )  in blood .
an abnormally increased level of immunoglobulin d in blood .
increased level of ige antibody against animal dander ,  tiny scales shed from animal skin or hair ,  such as from pet dogs or cats .
increased level of ige antibody against house dust mites ,  a common allergen .
increased level of ige antibody against galactose - alpha - 1 ,  3 galactose  ( alpha - gal )  ,  a carbohydrate found in mammalian meat .
an abnormality in the cleavage of l - selectin during the process of guiding neutrophils to the site of infection .
neutropenia with an absolute neutrophil count  ( anc )  less than 1 , 500 , 000 , 000 / l lasting for more than 3 months .
chornic neutropenia arising from an impaired proliferation and maturation of myeloid progenitor cells in the bone marrow .
cyclic neutropenia arising from an impaired proliferation and maturation of myeloid progenitor cells in the bone marrow .
a transient reduction in the number of neutrophils in the peripheral blood .
transient neutropenia caused by an infection ,  such as with a virus ,  bacteria or protozoan .
an increased number of neutrophils circulating in the blood during an infection ,  such as with a bacteria ,  virus or fungus .
an increased number of neutrophils circulating in the blood in the absence of an infection .
fusion of the liver with the lung .
the presence of an asymmetrical gluteal crease ,  the horizontal crease formed by the inferior aspect of the buttocks and the posterior upper leg .
a widely spaced gap between the fourth toe and the fifth  ( pinky )  toe .
a functional abnormality affecting the lower cranial nerves ,  which include the paired 9th  ( glossopharyngeal )  ,  10th  ( vagal )  ,  11th  ( accessory )  and 12th  ( hypoglossal )  cranial nerves .
an anomaly of metabolism or structure of the brain identified by imaging .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  located in the airway ,  typically below the vocal chords ,  that can cause severe obstruction of the airway .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  located in the upper part of the larynx  ( voice box )  including the epiglottis ;  the area above the vocal cords .
a hemangioma arising from within visceral structures ,  the internal organs of the body .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  located in the intestines ,  which includes the bowel .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  that is located in the spleen .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  that is located in the upper lip .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  that is located in the esophagus .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  that is located in the glottic or supraglottic regions .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  that is located in the vulva .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  that is located in the retropharyngeal space ,  the portion of the peripharyngeal space that is located posterior to the pharynx .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  that is located in the paraspinal muscular region ,  the muscles next to the spine .
a spinal cord hemangioma located in the lumbosacral spine region .
an abnormality of the sternum that presents at birth as a ventral sternal non - union defect ,  due to an abnormality of the fusion of the layers of the skin .
a sternal pit is a small indentation or dimple in the skin overlying the sternum of the chest .
a fluid - filled sacs that develop on or near the pituitary gland .
partial or complete wasting  ( loss )  of the pituitary gland .
onset of disease manifestations before adulthood ,  defined here as before the age of 16 years ,  but excluding neonatal or congenital onset .
a heterogeneous group of symptoms that are localized in the epigastric region .
a deviation from the normal concentration of amylase in the blood ,  an enzyme which helps digest glycogen and starch .
detection of acetaminophen in the blood .
detection of norpropoxyphene in the blood ,  a major metabolite of the opioid analgesic drug dextropropoxyphene .
detection of methadone or its metabolite 2 - ethylidene - 1 , 5 - dimethyl - 3 , 3 -  diphenylpyrrolidine  ( eddp )  in meconium .
detection of molindone in the blood ,  an antipyschotic used for treatment of schizophrenia .
a hemangioma ,  a benign tumor of the vascular endothelial cells ,  that is located in the intrathoracic or chest region .
increased level of amylase in the blood ,  an enzyme which helps digest glycogen and starch .
decreased level of amylase in the blood ,  an enzyme which helps digest glycogen and starch .
detection of norpropoxyphene in urine .
opposing or not responding to instructions or external stimuli .
an abnormal level of isohemagglutinin in the blood .
absent or undetectable level of isohemagglutinin .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against proteins in vaccines ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
the inability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a tetanus antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
the inability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a hepatisis b antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a tetanus antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a hepatitis b antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against polysaccharides in vaccines ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
the inability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a pneumococcus antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a pneumococcus antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against protein - conjugated polysaccharides in vaccines ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
the inability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a haemophilus influenzae type b  ( hib )  antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
the inability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a meningococcus antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a haemophilus influenzae type b  ( hib )  antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
a reduced ability to synthesize postvaccination antibodies against a meningococcus antigen ,  as measured by antibody titer determination following vaccination .
detection of methadone and its metabolites in the stool .
a reduced ability to synthesize antibodies against antigens from an infectious agent or pathogen  ( such as bacteria ,  viruses ,  parasites ,  etc .
a increased concentration of alpha - aminoadipic acid in the urine .
an abnormal form or size of neutrophils in the cerebrospinal fluid .
hyposegmented  ( hypolobulated )  or bilobed neutrophil nuclei in the cerebrospinal fluid .
an excessive division of the lobes of the nucleus of a neutrophil in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormal concentration of 1 - methylhistidine in the urine .
decreased concentration of 1 - methylhistidine in the urine .
increased concentration of 1 - methylhistidine in the urine .
abnormal amount of 3 - methylhistidine in the urine .
increased concentration of 3 - methylhistidine in the urine .
decreased concentration of 3 - methylhistidine in the urine .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against alpha - gal .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against animal proteins .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against animal dander .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against bacteria .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against drugs .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against dust mites .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against house dust mites .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against feathers .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against dairy .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against eggs .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against gluten .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against allergens contained in meat products .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against nut food products .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against plant based food allergens .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against seafood .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against fungus .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against insects .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against insect venom .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against parasites .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against plant products .
hypersensitivity in form of an adverse immune reaction against insect bites .
the occurrence of multiple or unique whitish or normal in color small papules or nodules in oral cavity ,  especially on labial and buccal mucosa ,  lower lip and tongue ,  and less often on the upper lip ,  gingiva and palate .
an abnormal level of heparan sulfate in the blood .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of heparan sulfate in the blood .
an abnormal decrease in the concentration of heparan sulfate in the blood .
decreased length of o - fucosylated glycans present on properdin .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of polyhexose in the urine .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of galactosylated oligosaccharides in urine .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of high - mannose - type oligosaccharides in the urine .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of multiantennary sialylated oligosaccharides in the urine .
an abnormal decrease in glycosyltransferase o - fucosylpeptide 3 - beta - n - acetylglucosaminyltransferase enzymatic level .
an abnormal increase in the concentrationl of small fucosylated oligosaccharides in the urine .
an abnormal concentration of complex n - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of complex n - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal decrease in the concentration of complex n - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of sialylated n - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal decrease in the concentration of sialylated n - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal concentration of high - mannose n - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of high - mannose n - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal in the concentration of core 1 o - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of core 1 o - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal decrease in the concentration of core 1 o - glycans on glycoproteins .
hypoglycosylation of alpha - dystroglycan with o - mannosyl glycans .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of monosialylated core 1 o - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal decrease in the concentration of monosialylated core 1 o - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of disialylated core 1 o - glycans on glycoproteins .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of globoside gb4 .
an abnormally increased level of immunoglobulin against hepatitis a virus in the blood .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of glycolipid globoside gb3 .
an abnormally increased level of immunoglobulin against hepatitis b virus in the blood .
the absence of ganglioside gm3 .
an abnormally increased level of immunoglobulin against hepatitis c virus in the blood .
an abnormal increase in the concentration of tn antigen on glycoproteins .
any abnormality in the proportion of naive cd4 t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
any abnormality in the proportion of naive cd8 t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an abnormally increased proportion of naive cd8 t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an abnormally reduced proportion of naive cd8 t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an abnormally reduced proportion of naive cd4 t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an abnormal proportion of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormal proportion of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormal proportion of central memory cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormal proportion of effector memory cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormal proportion of central memory cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
decreased proportion of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
decresaed proportion of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
a reduced proportion of central memory cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
a reduced proportion of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta central memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
a reduced proportion of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta effector memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormally elevated proportion of cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormally elevated proportion of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormally elevated proportion of central memory cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormally elevated proportion of effector memory cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an increased proportion of effector memory cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an increased proportion of central memory cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
saccular dilatation of the terminal bronchioles .
detection of lead in the blood .
absence of the sebaceous gland ,  the holocrine gland that secretes sebum into the hair follicles ,  or in hairless areas into ducts .
applies to a sign or symptom that is exacerbated in the evening as compared to the day .
an abnormality of the frontal bone .
an abnormality of the lacrimal bone .
an abnormality of the palatine bone .
an abnormality of the ethmoid bone
an eyelash that emerges from the underside  ( conjunctiva )  of the upper or lower eyelid .
a partial or complete adhesion of the palpebral conjunctiva of the eyelid to the bulbar conjunctiva of the eyeball .
the presence of more than the normal number of eyelids .
developmental hypoplasia of the eyelid .
abnormal shortness of the vertical dimensions of the eyelids .
an abnormality of the palpebral conjunctiva .
failure to complete ossification  ( maturation and calcification )  of the palatine bone .
lack of formation of the palatine bone .
an abnormality of one or more of the five muscles of the soft palate .
an abnormality of any of the muscles of the pharynx .
an abnormality of the tensor veli palatini muscle
an abnormality of the uvular muscle
an abnormality of the muscles of the structure of the nose .
an abnormality of any of the muscles of facial expression ,  which are innervated by the seventh  ( vii )  cranial nerve and control facial expression .
an abnormality of the levator labii superioris alaeque nasi muscle .
an abnormality of the common carotid arteries ,  which provide the arterial supply to the head and neck and give rise to the internal carotid artery and the external carotid artery .
an abnormality of the sphenoid sinus ,  one of the mucosa - lined ,  normally air - filled paranasal sinuses of the bones of the skull .
an abnormality of the maxillary sinus ,  one of the mucosa - lined ,  normally air - filled paranasal sinuses of the bones of the skull .
an abnormality of an external jugular vein of the neck .
two - sided or bilateral weakness of the muscles of facial expression and eye closure .
an abnormal morphology  ( form )  of the midface or its components ,  the cheeks ,  maxilla ,  zygomatic bone ,  malar region ,  and infraorbital rims .
abnormally increased dimension of the maxilla ,  especially relative to the mandible ,  resulting in a malocclusion or malalignment between the upper and lower teeth or in anterior positioning of the nasal base ,  increased convexity of the face ,  increased nasolabial angle ,  or increased width  ( transverse dimension of the maxilla .
an abnormality of the premaxilla  ( the embryonic structure that forms the anterior part of the maxilla )  causing it to appear relatively large in size compared to the other parts of the maxilla or other facial structures .
a perceived unpleasant smell given off by the body .
pain in and around the anus or rectum  ( perianal region )  .
inflammation of the urethra .
multiple cysts along the pupillary margin that appear as spherical or tear - drop - shaped pigmented lesions or wrinkled masses emerging from the pupillary border of the iris .
golden brown or gray deposits with a clockwise ,  whorl - like distribution in the inferior interpalpebal portion of the cornea .
it is a rare ,  slowly growing tumor of the cerebellum ,  a gangliocytoma sometimes considered to be a hamartoma ,  characterized by diffuse hypertrophy of the granular layer of the cerebellum .
a rounded ,  puffy face with fat deposits in the temporal fossa and cheeks ,  a double chin .
a deviation from the normal circulating concentration of the normal gonadotropin - releasing hormone level secreted from the pituitary gland .
secretion of gonadotropin - releasing hormone that does not occur in a pulsatile fashion .
abnormal test result of cardiovascular physiology .
abnormal results of a mri for the heart .
abnormal results from the diagnostic tests resulting from cardiac catheterization .
abnormal results of exercise on heart function .
resting energy expenditure  ( ree )  can be measured with indirect calorimetry using a metabolic cart ,  which is used to measure the oxygen consumption  ( vo2 )  and carbon dioxide production  ( vco2 )  .
abnormal blood test results measuring creatine kinase  ( ck )  ,  ck - mb ,  troponin  ( tropi )  ,  myoglobin ,  and / or cardiac enzymes .
an decreased level of gamma - aminobutyric acid in the brain identified by magnetic resonance spectroscopy  ( mrs )  .
a deviation from the normal concentration of dehydroepiandrosterone in the circulation .
absence of shoulder muscles .
absence of the musculature of the pelvis .
underdevelopment of the musculature of the pelvis .
congenital absence of the colon
deposition of large ,  diffuse cotton wool amyloid plaques  ( cwps )  lacking a dense core and associated neuritic changes .
change in normal glycogen storage content .
an elevation in bone density in one or more carpal bones of the hand .
abnormality of the structure and branching of the dendrites of a neuron .
any abnormality in the proportion natural killer subsets relative to the total number of natural killer cells .
blockage of the nasolacrimal sac .
a mass of granulation tissue in response to chronic dacryocystitis as polypoid formations or they follow accidental injury ,  from probing and as a reaction to retained foreign bodies in the sac .
benign tumor of the nasolacrimal sac .
the malignant epithelial neoplasm with papillary growths in the nasolacrimal sac .
an abnormality of the conjuctiva and ocular surface caused by conjunctival inflammation and associated with scarring .
a benign tumor composed of adipose tissue and dense connective tissue usually located near the temporal fornix .
a condition where one or both of the two principal meridians focus in the front of the retina when the eye is at rest .
a term to describe when farsightedness is masked when the accommodative muscles are used to increase the focusing power of the eye .
with the eyes in primary position ,  the sclera is visible above the superior corneal limbus .
an elevation of the eyelid above the normal level in the primary position .
a unilateral or bilateral eyelid retraction due to midbrain lesions .
inflamation of the eyelid due to overactivity of the sebaceous gland .
a type of lymphoma that involves the nasolacrimal sac .
a very common condition in which the extreme end of the nasolacrimal duct underneath the inferior turbinate fails to complete its canalization in the newborn period .
an avascular or abnormally vascularized retina that occurs in premature infants and can lead to blindness .
the retinal vessels stop and then a linear flat white line is present that usually runs the circumference of the vascular retina .
the accumulating neovascularization thickens and manifests as a linear bump .
the neovascularization accumulates at the edge of the vascularized retina and extends into the vitreous  ( also called extra retinal fibrosis proliferation )  .
scar tissue that forms a continuous sheet coming up from the edge of the vascularized retina .
a detachment that involves the peripheral retina that does not extend into the macula .
a detachment that involves the peripheral retina that involves the macula itself .
funnel detachment from the retina with generally traction in all four quadrants .
an open funnel detachment of the retina with generally traction in all four quadrants .
a closed funnel detachment of the retina with generally traction in all four quadrants .
retinopathy which extends from the center of the optic disc to twice the distance from the center of the optic disc to the center of the macula .
retinopathy which extends centrifugally from the edge of zone i to the nasal ora serrata .
retinopathy which is a residual crescent of retina anterior to zone ii .
venous dilatation and arteriolar tortuosity of the posterior retinal vessels and may later increase in severity to include iris vascular engorgement ,  poor pupillary dilatation  ( rigid pupil )  ,  and vitreous haze .
as vascular abnormalities of the posterior pole that are insufficient for the diagnosis of plus disease but that demonstrate more arterial tortuosity and more venous dilatation than normal .
a retinopathy with a 50% likelihood of progressing to retinal detachment .
high risk patients who were in zone 1  ( no plus or stage 3 )  or zone 2 with plus or stage 3 but not both .
the difference between total and manifest myopia .
a type of ectropion associated with orbicularis muscle weakness caused by cranial nerve vii palsy .
a conjuctival lesion composed of adipose tissue and dense connective tissue .
eccentric fixation in which the angle of eccentricity equals the objective angle of deviation .
any deviation from the normal ocular alignment .
an incomitant tendency for an occluded eye to elevate and extort which resolves on uncovering .
a change in horizontal ocular alignment ,  unrelated to accommodation ,  that is brought about solely by a change in the balance of visual input from the two eyes .
a type of vertical tropia in which ,  when one eye is fixing ,  the other eye is deviated upwards .
a type of vertical phoria in which ,  in dissociation ,  the occluded eye deviates upwards .
a type of vertical tropia in which ,  when one eye is fixing ,  the other eye is deviated downwards .
a type of vertical phoria in which ,  in dissociation ,  the occluded eye deviates downwards .
the term pseudophakia refers to having an artificial lens implanted after the natural eye lens has been removed .
having a characteristic appearance of a slate gray area of pigmentation within the disc margins that commonly appears along the inferotemporal or temporal neuroretinal rim areas .
thinning in the layers of the retina and retinal pigment epithelium around the optic nerve .
loss of pigment in the fovea centralis .
a benign tumour of meningothelial cells of the meninges that usually occurs in middle age .
a capillary hemangioma surrounding the eyeball but within the orbit .
a hamartoma of lymph vessels that usually presents in childhood .
a mesenchymal tumour that is considered to be the commonest primary orbital malignancy in children .
primary food allergies primarily occur as a result  ( most likely )  of gastrointestinal sensitization to predominantly stable food allergens  ( glycoproteins )  .
latex allergy is an ige - mediated immediate hypersensitivity response to natural rubber latex  ( nrl )  protein with a variety of clinical signs ranging from contact urticaria ,  angioedema ,  asthma ,  and anaphylaxis .
food - induced anaphylaxis is a severe ,  potentially fatal ,  systemic allergic reaction that occurs suddenly after contact with an allergy - causing food .
a form of anaphylaxis that is triggered by exposure to venom .
presence of xenobiotic in stool .
presence of a xenobiotic in meconium .
presence of xenobiotic in hair .
presence of a xenobiotic in plasma and / or serum .
presence of a xenobiotic in gastric fluid .
abnormal decrease in diastolic blood pressure .
abnormal decrease in systolic blood pressure .
elevated systolic blood pressure without an elevated blood pressure .
a decrease in diastolic blood pressure  (  < 60 mmhg )  without a decrease in systolic blood pressure  (  >  or = to 100 mmhg )  .
detection of cocaine or its major metabolite ,  benzoylecgonine ,  in urine .
detection of barbiturate metabolites such as phenobarbital in urine .
detection of delta - 9 - tetrahydrocannabinol  ( thc )  or other cannabinoid metabolites in urine .
detection of benzodiazepine metabolites ,  primarily nordiazepam ,  oxazepam ,  and temazepam ,  in urine .
detection of amphetamine or its metabolites in urine .
detection of opioids or opioid metabolites in urine .
abnormal concentration of urobilinogen present in the stool .
an increased amount of urobilinogen present in the stool .
detection of barbiturate metabolites such as phenobarbital in blood .
abnormal concentration of urate in the cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  .
a decreased amount of valine in the blood .
an decreased concentration of tyrosine in the blood .
an increased amount of tryptophan in the blood .
a decreased amount of tryptophan in the blood .
a decreased amount of threonine in the blood .
an increased amount of serine in the blood .
a decreased amount of proline in the blood .
a decreased amount of hydroxyproline in the blood .
a decreased amount of phenylalanine in the blood .
a decreased amount of lysine in the blood .
decreased amount of leucine in the blood .
a decreased amount of isoleucine in the blood .
a decreased amount of histidine in the blood .
decreased amount of glutamine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamate in the blood circulation .
an increased amount of glutamate in the blood .
a decreased amount of glutamate in the blood .
an increased amount of cystine in the blood .
a decreased amount of cystine in the blood .
an increased amount of arginine levels in the blood .
a decreased amount of alanine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of asparagine in the blood circulation .
an increased amount of asparagine in the blood .
a decreased amount of asparagine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of aspartate in the blood circulation .
an increased amount of aspartic acid in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of carnosine in the blood circulation .
an increased amount of carnosine in the blood .
a decreased amount of carnosine in bood .
an abnormal decrease in ornithine in the blood .
an abnormality of carbon dioxide  ( co2 )  in the arterial blood .
an abnormality of the partial pressure of oxygen in the arterial blood .
an abnormal concentration of gastrin in the blood .
an elevated amount of gastrin in the blood .
an abnormal amount of acylcarnitine in the urine .
a loss of consciousness followed by stiffening and brief clonic movements affecting some or all limbs ,  often misinterpreted as an epileptic seizure .
an increased amount of taurine in the blood .
a decreased amount of taurine in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a carboxylic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of branched - chain amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of valine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any increased amount from normal of valine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any decreased amount from normal of valine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of leucine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of leucine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of leucine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of isoleucine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of isoleucine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of isoleucine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamine - family amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamine amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of glutamine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of glutamine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glutamic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of glutamic acid in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of glutamic acid in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of arginine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of arginine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of arginine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of aspartate - family amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of lysine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of lysine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of lysine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of methionine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of methionine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of threonine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of threonine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of threonine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of aromatic amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phenylalanine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of aspartic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of aspartic acid in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of tryptophan in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of tyrosine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of tyrosine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of tyrosine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of tryptophan in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of phenylalanine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of phenylalanine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of serine - family amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of serine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of serine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of serine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of glycine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of glycine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of pyruvate - family amino acids in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of alanine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of alanine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of alanine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of histidine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of histidine in cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally decreased levels of histidine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of albumin in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of carnosine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of homocarnosine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of homocarnosine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of ornithine in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of ornithine in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of citrulline in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of citrulline in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of alpha - aminobutyrate in the cerebrospinal fluid .
abnormally increased levels of alpha - aminobutyrate in cerebrospinal fluid .
any deviation from the normal concentration of ethanolamine in circulation .
abnormally increased levels of ethanolamine in circulation .
abnormal concentration of sebacic acid in the urine .
elevated concentration of sebacic acid in the urine .
elevated concentration of gamma - aminobutyric acid in the urine .
abnormal concentration of hexanoylglycine in the urine .
elevated concentration of hexanoylglycine in the urine .
abnormal concentration of isobutyrylglycine in the urine .
elevated concentration of isobutyrylglycine in the urine .
abnormal amount of carbon dioxide in umbilical cord blood
an abnormal level of blood oxygen in the cord blood .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by exposure to a head trauma .
applies to a sign or symptom that is provoked or brought about by exposure to anesthetics .
the most dramatic and severe form of hair loss characterized by an absence of hair follicles .
abnormal proportion of helper t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
increased proportion of helper t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
an increased proportion of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta effector memory ra temra t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an decreased proportion of cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta effector memory ra temra t cells compared to the total number of t cells in the blood .
an abnormal proportion of circulating cd4 - positive helper t cells relative to total t cell count .
abnormal proportion of gamma - delta t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
increased proportion of gamma - delta t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
decreased proportion of gamma - delta t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
abnormal proportion of immature gamma - delta t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
increased proportion of immature gamma - delta t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
decreased proportion of immature gamma - delta t cells relative to the total number of t cells .
symmetrical thickening ,  tightening and induration of the skin of the fingers and the skin proximal to the metacarpophalangeal or metatarsophalangeal joints .
slightly raised wart 2 - 5 mm in diameter often associated with viral infections ,  commonly persistent in immunodeficient individuals .
it is a bilateral reticular pattern of linear or lineonodular densities that are most pronounced in basilar portions of the lungs on standard chest x - ray .
any structural anomaly of an inner ear epithelium .
an abnormality of a mandibular ramus .
an abnormality of a frontalis muscle belly .
an abnormality of a masseter muscle .
an abnormality of a medial pterygoid muscle .
an abnormality of a mentalis muscle .
an abnormality of a mylohyoid muscle .
an abnormality of a nasalis muscle .
an abnormality of an orbicularis oris muscle .
an abnormality of a palatoglossus muscle .
an abnormality of a palatopharyngeus muscle .
an abnormality of the platysma muscle .
an abnormality of a procerus .
an abnormality of a risorius muscle .
an abnormality of the styloglossus muscle .
an abnormality of a temporalis muscle .
an abnormality of a zygomaticus major muscle .
an abnormality of a buccal mucosa .
an abnormality of a zygomaticus minor muscle .
an abnormality of a buccal fat pad .
an abnormality of a cartilage of external ear .
an abnormality of the angular artery ,  the terminal branch of the facial artery .
any structural abnormality of a facial artery ,  one of the branches of the external carotid artery .
an abnormality of a ciliary ganglion .
an abnormality of a buccinator muscle .
an abnormality of a depressor anguli oris muscle .
an abnormality of a depressor labii inferioris .
an abnormality of an orbit of skull .
an abnormality of an anterior ethmoidal artery .
an abnormality of a central retinal artery .
any abnormality of nasopharyngeal adenoids .
an abnormality of a cartilage of nasal septum .
abnormality of the plexus of the ventral rami of the first four cervical spinal nerves which are located from c1 to c4 cervical segment in the neck .
an abnormality of a blood vessel of the head ,  including branches of the arterial and venous systems of the head .
an abnormality of a blood vessel of the neck ,  including branches of the arterial and venous systems of the neck .
any structural abnormality of a cricoid cartilage ,  that is ,  of the ring - shaped cartilage of the larynx .
an abnormality of a dorsal nasal artery .
an abnormality of an ethmoid sinus .
an abnormality of an external carotid artery .
any structural abnormality of a jugular vein .
an abnormality of a facial vein .
an abnormality of a frontal process of the maxilla bone .
an abnormality of a genioglossus muscle .
an abnormality of a geniohyoid muscle .
any structural anomaly of the glossopharyngeal nerve ,  the ninth paired cranial nerve  ( cn ix )  .
any structural anomaly of a great auricular nerve .
an abnormality of a greater palatine artery .
an abnormality of an odontoid tissue .
an abnormality of a hyoglossus muscle .
an abnormality of a hyoid bone .
a structural anomaly of the hypopharyx ,  which is the most inferior portion of the pharynx .
an abnormality of an inferior alveolar artery .
an abnormality of an inferior alveolar nerve .
an abnormality of an artery of lower lip .
an abnormality of an inferior oblique extraocular muscle .
an abnormality of an inferior rectus extraocular muscle .
an abnormality of an inferior thyroid vein .
an abnormality of an infraorbital artery .
a structural abnormality of an infra - orbital nerve .
an abnormality of an internal carotid artery .
an abnormality of an internal jugular vein .
an abnormality of an intrinsic muscle of tongue .
an abnormality of a lacrimal artery .
an abnormality of a lacrimal sac .
any structural abnormality of a lateral crico - arytenoid muscle ,  which extends from the lateral cricoid cartilage to the muscular process of the arytenoid cartilage ,  and can adduct the vocal cords ,  which closes the rima glottidis and thereby protects the airway .
an abnormality of a lateral pterygoid muscle .
an abnormality of a lateral rectus extra - ocular muscle .
an abnormality of a levator anguli oris .
an abnormality of a levator labii superioris .
an abnormality of a levator palpebrae superioris .
an abnormality of a levator veli palatini .
any structural abnormality of a lingual artery .
any structural anomaly of a lingual nerve .
an abnormality of a lingual tonsil .
an abnormality of a mandible condylar process .
an abnormality of a mandible coronoid process .
a structural abnormality of a mandibular symphysis .
abnormality of the male external sex organ .
an anomaly of the labia ,  the externally visible portions of the vulva .
a structural anomaly of the glomerulus .
accumulation of scar tissue within the glomerulus .
abnormality of the paranasal  ( cranial )  sinuses ,  which are air - filled spaces that are located within the bones of the skull and face and communicate with the nasal cavity .
insufficient responses to growth hormone  ( gh )  provocation tests .
hypotonia is an abnormally low muscle tone  ( the amount of tension or resistance to movement in a muscle )  .
an abnormality of the hip joint .
an abnormality of the mesangium ,  i .e . ,  of the central part of the renal glomerulus between capillaries .
acute ischemic stroke  ( ais )  is defined by the sudden loss of blood flow to an area of the brain with the resulting loss of neurologic function .
an anomaly of the brainstem .
visual perceptions that are not elicited by a corresponding stimulus from the outside world .
an abnormality of the cerebral white matter .
a structural abnormality of the myelinated axons  ( white matter )  located near the cerebral ventricles .
fleeting perceptual experiences that occur during the transition from wakefulness to sleep .
any structural abnormality of the cerebral cortex .
impaired ability to repeat non - word sounds .
abnormal outpouching or sac - like dilatation in the wall of an atery ,  vein or the heart .
abnormality of the sella turcica ,  a saddle - shaped depression in the sphenoid bone at the base of the human skull .
any abnormality of the foramen magnum .
punctate  ( speckled ,  dot - like )  deposition of calcium of calcium salts in the articular cartilage  ( cartilage located in joints )  .
an abnormality of the ilium ,  the largest and uppermost bone of the pelvis .
decreased width of the wing  ( or ala )  of the ilium  ( which is the large expanded portion which bounds the greater pelvis laterally )  .
widening of the ilium ala ,  that is of the wing of the ilium ,  combined with external rotation ,  leading to a flared appearance of the iliac wing .
perceived difficulty to breathe that occurs with exercise or exertion and improves with rest .
reduced ability to extend  ( straighten )  the knee joint .
an abnormality of the acetabulum ,  i .e . ,  the acetabular part of hip bone ,  which together with the head of the femur forms the hip joint .
an abnormality of the hip bone .
abnormal raised concentration of ferritin ,  a ubiquitous intracellular protein that stores iron ,  in the blood .
increased concentration of proprionic acid in the blood circulation .
applies to a disease manifestation that increases in scope or severity over the course of time ,  i .e . ,  that worsens with age .
applies to a disease manifestation that only slowly increases in scope or severity over the course of time .
applies to a disease manifestation that quickly increases in scope or severity over the course of time .
applies to a disease manifestation that does not increase in scope or severity over the course of time ,  i .e . ,  that does not worsen with age .
applies to a disease manifestation that quickly increases in scope or severity with a rate that varies .
an abnormality of glycosphingolipid metabolism .
a reduced desire to eat .
prominent glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  ,  reflecting an increase in thickness  ( subjective estimate )  of the basal lamina of the glomerulus of the kidney .
a developmental defect characterized by the lack of formation of the pulmonary blood vessels .
pulmonary vascular resistance  ( pvr )  more than 3 wood units ,  as defined by the current definition of pulmonary hypertension .
head circumference which falls below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender because of insufficient head growth after birth .
deposition of calcium salts on both sides of the brain .
reduced intestinal absorption of fructose .
a metabolic acidosis due to accumulation of ketone bodies generally observed in the setting of poor nutritional intake .
reduced abilty to lower the chin towards the chest by bending the neck .
reduced ability to flex  ( bend )  the knee joint .
tracheal diverticula are blind - ended outpouchings arising from the trachea .
lymphocytic interstitial pneumonitis is a benign lymphoproliferative disorder of the lung that is characterized by the presence of a dense ,  predominantly lymphocytic interstitial infiltrate  ( lymphocytes ,  plasma cells ,  other elements of the lymphoreticular system )  that expands the alveolar septa .
abnormality of the lung parenchyma extending to the pulmonary interstitium and leading to diffuse pulmonary fibrosis .
obstruction of conducting airways of the lung .
fleeting perceptual experiences that occur during the transition from sleep to wakefulness .
bilateral tonic - clonic seizure of either generalized or focal onset occurring on or soon after wakening  ( typically within 90 minutes of waking ,  regardless of the time of day )  .
a structural abnormality of the pons .
a general term that describes a congenital defect in the iliac wing resulting from abnormal development .
increased height of the wing  ( or ala )  of the ilium  ( which is the large expanded portion which bounds the greater pelvis laterally )  .
increased size of the ilium ala .
an abnormal level of a circulating protein in the blood .
any deviation from the normal concentration of phytanic acid in the blood circulation .
inflammation of the tonsils that has occurred repeatedly .
any structural abnormality of the abducens nerve .
structural anomaly of the fetal membranes  ( also known as the amniochorionic or placental membranes )  ,  which comprise a vital intrauterine compartment ,  where they perform mechanical ,  immune ,  and endocrine functions to promote growth of the fetus and protection from environmental adversity .
head circumference below 2 standard deviations below the mean for age and gender at birth .
a subjective manifestation of disease localized to the abdomen .
an anomaly of the ilium ala .
affective ,  mnemonic or composite perceptual auras with subjective qualities similar to those experienced in life but are recognized by the subject as occurring outside of actual context .
affective auras with subjective qualities similar to those experienced in life but are recognized by the subject as occurring outside of actual context .
a subjective feeling that an experience which is occurring for the first time has been experienced before .
a subjective feeling that an experience which has occurred before is being experienced for the first time .
deviation from normal concentration of albumin in the blood .
abnormality of the occipital bone of the skull .
abnormally reduced concentration of ferritin ,  a ubiquitous intracellular protein that stores iron ,  in the blood .
an anomaly of cerebral veins .
a structural abnormality of the sperm head .
a structural abnormality of the sperm neck .
a structural abnormality of the sperm mid - piece .
a structural abnormality of the sperm tail .
an anomaly of the labia minora ,  the folds of skin between the outer labia .
an anomaly of the outer labia .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against double - stranded dna .
an increased circulation of arachidonic acid in the blood circulation .
any structural anomaly of the hippocampus , 
a deviation from the normal concentration in blood of an apolipoprotein ,  i .e . ,  of a protein that binds lipids to form lipoprotein and is thereby responsible for the transport of lipids in the blood and lymph circulation .
an increased concentration in blood of apolipoprotein a - iv ,  a major component of hdl and chylomicrons that has a role in vldl secretion and catabolism and is required for efficient activation of lipoprotein lipase by apoc - ii .
hypercellularity due to increased number of cells within glomerular capillary lumina ,  causing narrowing of the lumina .
hypercellularity  ( increased number of cells )  in the renal glomerulus but external to the glomerular capillaries ,  i .e . ,  in the bowman space or more than one layer of parietal or visceral epithelial cells .
fixation off sensitivity  ( fos )  is characterized by posterior or generalized epileptiform discharges that consistently occur with conditions that eliminate central vision ,  such as closed eyes ,  complete darkness ,  modified ganzfeld stimulation  ( using a large white surface without visual cues )  ,  and frenzel lenses .
polymicrogyria that affects all or some of both cerebral hemispheres .
a type of nephrotic syndrome in which complete remission  ( albumin urine dipstick negative / trace or proteinuria  < 4mg / m2 / d or urinary protein to creatinine ratio  < 200mg / g  (  < 20 mg / mmol )  for 3 consecutive days )  is achieved within initial 4 weeks of corticosteroid therapy .
a type of steroid - sensitive nephrotic syndrome in which relapses occur at a frequency of one relapse  ( albumin urine dipstick at least 3 +  or proteinuria over 40 mg / m2 / d or urinary protein to creatinine ratio at least 2000 mg / g for 3 consecutive days )  within 6 months of initial response ,  or one to three relapses in any 12 - month period .
a type of steroid - sensitive nephrotic syndrome in which relapses occur at a frequency of two or more relapses  ( albumin urine dipstick at least 3 +  or proteinuria over 40 mg / m2 / d or urinary protein to creatinine ratio at least 2000 mg / g for 3 consecutive days )  within 6 months of initial response or four or more relapses in any 12 - month period .
a type of nephrotic syndrome in which two consecutive relapses  ( albumin urine dipstick at least 3 +  or proteinuria greater than 40 mg / m2 / d or urinary protein to creatinine ratio at least 2000 mg / g for 3 consecutive days )  occur during corticosteroid therapy ,  or within 14 days of ceasing therapy .
presence of abnormal additional layers of the basement membrane of the glomerulus .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against the centromeres or centromere components .
presence of thickening of the interlobular septa of the lungs as seen on a ct scan .
reduction in the level of lipoprotein lipase in the blood .
a structural anomaly of the double - walled capsule  ( bowman capsule )  that opens into a renal tubule .
any structural anomaly of the podocyte ,  which is a highly specialized cell of the bowman capsule and which forms multiple interdigitating foot processes .
an elevated level of propionylcarnitine in the circulation .
failure to contain thebacillus calmette - guerin  ( bcg )  following vaccination leading to spread of bcg to many sites in the body .
increased circulating level of apolipoprotein b ,  which is the main apolipoprotein of chylomicrons and low density lipoproteins .
reduced criculating level of apolipoprotein ai ,  which is the major protein component of high density lipoprotein  ( hdl )  in plasma .
an increased concentration in blood of apolipoprotein a - ii ,  a major component of hdl particles ,  associated with triglyceride and glucose metabolism .
the presence of eosinophils in lung tissue ,  generally as detected by tissue biopsy ,  with or without blood eosinophilia .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against la / ssb autoantigens .
any deviation from the normal concentration of transferrin in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of transferrin in the blood circulation .
an abnormally decreased concentration of transferrin in the blood circulation .
an increased level of acetone in the blood circulation .
a focal cognitive seizure characterized by memory phenomena such as feelings of familiarity  ( deja vu )  and unfamiliarity  ( jamais vu )  as the initial semiological manifestation .
an increased concentration in blood of apolipoprotein c - iii ,  a protein component of triglyceride  ( tg )  - rich lipoproteins  ( trls )  including very low density lipoproteins  ( vldl )  ,  high density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  and chylomicrons .
accumulation of amorphous ,  eosinophilic ,  glassy ,  periodic acid - schiff  ( pas )  - positive ,  silver - negative material in the glomerulus .
accumulation of amorphous ,  eosinophilic ,  glassy ,  periodic acid - schiff  ( pas )  - positive ,  silver - negative material in the glomerulus at the vascular pole / perihilum .
accumulation of amorphous ,  eosinophilic ,  glassy ,  periodic acid - schiff  ( pas )  - positive ,  silver - negative material in the glomerulus at the tip / tubular pole .
accumulation of amorphous ,  eosinophilic ,  glassy ,  periodic acid - schiff  ( pas )  - positive ,  silver - negative material in the glomerulus at neither tip nor perihilar / vascular poles .
an increased concentration of 2 - ethylhydracylic acid in the urine .
an abnormal elevation of the relative proportion of cd4 +  to cd8 +  t cells .
an abnormal reduction of the relative proportion of cd4 +  to cd8 +  t cells .
any structural abnormality of the parietal epithelial cells that line the inside of bowman's capsule and form an inconspicuous sheet of flat epithelial cells in continuity with the proximal tubular epithelial cells at the urinary pole and with the podocytes at the vascular pole .
increased number of parietal epithelial cells lining bowman's capsule .
an abnormality of the glomerular parietal epithelial cells characterized by  ( 1 )  increased parietal epithelial cell size ,  with or without cytoplasmic protein droplets ;  or  ( 2 )  enlarged nuclei with prominent nucleoli .
an insudative accumulation of amorphous ,  eosinophilic ,  periodic acid - schiff  ( pas )  - positive ,  silver - negative material protruding from bowman's capsule into the urinary space .
an area of basement membrane continuity between the glomerular tuft and bowman's capsule ,  without intervening crescent and not adjacent to an area of segmental sclerosis .
inability to elicit triceps tendon reflex .
inability to elicit brachioradialis tendon reflex .
inability to elicit biceps tendon reflex .
abnormal number of its constituent cells of the mesangium of the glomerulus of the kidney .
any structural anomaly of the glomerular matrix .
mesangial immune deposit located adjacent to the paramesangial glomerular basement membrane .
extracellular mesangial accumulation of moderately electron - dense ,  generally homogenous ,  amorphous - appearing extracellular material .
reduced ability to desscend stairs .
a failure to sustain attention that requires self - motivation to optimize performance .
detachment of visceral epithelial cells  ( podocytes )  from underlying glomerular basement membrane with intervening new loose basement membrane material  ( pale on hematoxylin and eosin ,  periodic acid - shiff ,  trichrome ,  or silver stain )  forming a so - called 'halo' .
cytoplasmic projections into the urinary space from the luminal side of the podocyte .
layer of hypertrophied visceral epithelial cells overlying a sclerosed segment of the tuft of the glomerulus .
an increase in the ratio of residual volume  ( rv )  to total lung capacity  ( tlc )  on pulmonary function testing .
an elevation of the total count of alveoli as determined by microscopic point - counting of randomly taken lung sections ,  not secondary to abnormalities in number ,  size and structure of the airways .
a horseshoe lung is an uncommon congenital abnormality caused by the partial fusion of the bases of both lungs behind the pericardial sac .
cellular death affecting one or more parts of the lung .
accumulation of immature interstitial cells containing abundant cytoplasmic glycogen defined by periodic acid - schiff  ( pas )  positive cells .
any structural abnormality of alveolar type 2  ( atii )  cells .
increase in size of type ii pneumocytes .
extracellular deposition in lung tissue of a proteinaceous material that ,  when stained with congo red ,  demonstrates apple - green birefringence under polarized light and that has a distinct color when stained with sulfated alcian blue .
fibrosing nodules ,  consisting of either unilateral or bilateral central whorled deposits of lamellar collagen hyalin .
hyperintense lesion in the substantia nigra on magnetic resonance t2 imaging .
an increased number of turns of the blood vessels of the nailfold with a charactereistic winded or twisted appearance of the blood vessels .
increase in the amount of air remaining in a person's lungs after ful exhalation .
exaggerated skin markings  ( dermatoglyphics )  on the palms of the hand .
a reduction in the concentration of interferon gamma measured in the blood circulation .
narrowing of the anorectum associated with inflammation or scar tissue .
a congenital malformation characterized by an overdistended segment of lung ,  affecting an party of a lobe or the entire one .
inflammation of the entire colon .
a failure to achieve the ability to walk with support  ( cruise )  at an appropriate developmental stage .
sudden unexpected death in epilepsy  ( sudep )  is a sudden ,  unexpected ,  witnessed or unwitnessed ,  non - traumatic and non - drowning death ,  occurring in benign circumstances ,  in an individual with epilepsy ,  with or without evidence for a seizure and excluding documented status epilepticus ,  in which postmortem examination has not revealed a cause of death .
a seizure with clinical manifestation but without motor signs  ( other than possible behavior arrest )  as its initial clinical manifestation .
livedo racemosa describes a reddish - blue mottling of the skin in an irregular ,  reticular pattern .
increase in diameter of a segment of the renal artery that can be defined as a focal ,  isolated dilatation of all three layers of the arterial wall over 1 .5 times the diameter of the disease - free proximal adjacent arterial segment .
a fracture through the distal humeral physis that separates the entire distal humeral epiphysis from the metaphysis .
lack of platelet dense granules ,  a type of platelet organelles .
increased size of platelet dense granules .
lamellated intracytoplasmic lipid inclusions within podocytes .
visceral epithelial cell hyperplasia with resulting cellular crowding of the the urinary space .
abnormal structural characteristics of the interior space of the capillary of the renal glomerulus .
wrinkling and folding of the capillaries without epithelial cell  ( podocyte )  hyperplasia  ( formerly called ischemic type of collapse )  involving o 80% of the glomerular tuft .
collapse is generally accompanied by other descriptors such as hypertrophy and hyperplasia of overlying glomerular epithelial cells ,  halo ,  protein droplets in podocytes and glomerular parietal epithelial cells  ( pecs )  .
global distention of glomerular capillaries with intraluminal intact red blood cells .
glomerular capillary dilatation due to loosening / detachment of the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  from its anchoring points ,  usually in the context of mesangiolysis or nodular glomerulosclerosis .
an abnormal structure of the glomerular endothelial cells ,  which are highly specialized cells with fenestrae and a charged luminal glycocalyx layer that contribute to the filtration barrier .
loss of round to oval discontinuities normally present in the glomerular capillary endothelial cell cytoplasm .
enlargement of glomerular endothelial cells by cytoplasmic swelling with resulting partial or complete occlusion of the lumen .
inter - anastomosing tubular structures located within cisternae of endoplasmic reticulum ,  most often within endothelial cells and associated with exposure to interferon .
fibrin associated with glomerular basement membrane disruption and / or lysis of the mesangial matrix ;  this lesion does not require the presence of karyorrhexis .
reduced amount of programmed cell death in peripheral blood lymphocytes following exposure to cd95  ( apo - 1 / fas )  ,  which is a member of the death receptor family ,  a subfamily of the tnf - r superfamily .
an abnormal connection  ( fistula )  between the intra - abdominal intestinal tract and the skin .
enlargement of lymph nodes surrounding the trachea .
the presence of nucleated red blood cells in the peripheral blood circulation .
any abnormal sttructure of the glomerular basement membrane .
prominent glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  reflecting a segmental and increase in thickness  ( subjective estimate )  with no evidence of electron dense deposits by em .
prominent glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  reflecting an diffuse and relativly uniform increase in thickness  ( subjective estimate )  with no evidence of electron dense deposits by em .
prominent glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  reflecting an increase in thickness  ( subjective estimate )  with no evidence of electron dense deposits by electron microscopy .
lucent zones within the glomerular basement membranes .
irregular folding of the glomerular basement membrane with an intact lamina densa .
expansion of the space between the glomerular endothelium and lamina densa by electron - lucent material .
apoptotic ,  pyknotic ,  and fragmented nuclei within the glomerulus .
an aggregate of coagulated blood containing fibrin ,  with or without entrapped cellular elements ,  within a glomerular capillary lumen .
intracapillary amorphous ,  eosinophilic material consisting of immune deposits .
intracapillary silver - positive material that is finely vacuolated and laminated ,  and stains with oil red o on frozen sections .
extracellular meangial accumulation of finely granular material corresponding to immunoglobulin and / or complement by immunofluorescence / immunohistochemistry ;  most typically electron - dense although this may decrease with resorption of the deposit .
visceral epithelial cells with 2 nuclei .
visceral epithelial cells with more than two nuclei .
a deviation from the normal concentration in blood of factor h - related protein 1  ( fhr - 1 ) 
decreased level of circulating complement factor h related protein 1 concentration in the blood circulation .
elevated level of circulating complement factor h related protein 1 concentration in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased level of 1 - methylhistidine in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of 4 - hydroxyphenylacetic acid in the blood circulation .
abnormally increased amount of a monocarboxylic acid in the urine .
increased amount of 4 - hydroxyphenylacetic acid in the urine .
any deviation from the normal concentration of fetuin a in the blood circulation .
a reduction below normal of fetuin a in the blood circulation .
an elevation above normal of fetuin a in the blood circulation .
excessive growth of the kneecap  ( patella )  .
a type of intussusception of the small intestine in which one part of the ileum invaginates  ( telescopes )  into another part of the ileum .
osmotic diarrhea results from the presence of osmotically active ,  poorly absorbed solutes in the bowel lumen that inhibit normal water and electrolyte absorption .
a tear in the intimal layer of the abdominal aorta causing a separation between the intima and the medial layers .
structural anomaly located in bowman's space ,  which represents the beginning of the urinary space and is contiguous with the proximal convoluted tubule of the nephron .
acellular collagenous matrix within bowman's space ,  not associated with extracapillary hypercellularity or necrosis ,  associated with sclerosis or deflation of the tuft .
increased number of visceral epithelial cells  ( 2 or more layers )  ,  often with crowding and multilayering ,  but without continuity with the parietal epithelium .
round to ovoid ,  periodic acid - schiff  ( pas )  - positive ,  fuchsinophilic cytoplasmic inclusions within visceral epithelial cells .
glomerular crescent refers hyperplastic lesions involving 10% or more of the circumference of bowman's capsule .
a type of glomerular crescent characterized by extracapillary hypercellularity of greater than two cell layers and involving more than 10% of the capsular circumference ,  composed of greater than 75% cells with or without fibrin ,  and less than 25% fibrous matrix .
a type of glomerular crescent characterized by extracapillary hypercellularity of more than 2 cell layers and involving over 10% of the capsular circumference ,  composed of 25% to 75% cells with or without fibrin ,  and the remainder fibrous matrix .
a type of glomerular crescent characterized by extracapillary fibrosis composed of greater than 75% matrix and of less than 25% cells with or without fibrin ,  usually associated with disruption of bowman's capsule and involving over 10% of the capsular circumference .
loss of mesangial cells segmentally or globally .
globally sclerotic glomeruli are that are small and without hyalinosis and may appear with collapse of the tuft with collagenization of the urinary space .
double contouring of the original glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  / additional layer ( s )  of overlying basement membrane matrix ,  with or without endocapillary hypercellularity and no evidence of interposed migrated cells  ( mesangial ,  endothelial ,  monocytes )  between the layers of original gbm and de novo gbm .
double contouring of the original glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  / additional layer ( s )  of overlying basement membrane matrix with interposed migrated cells  ( mesangial ,  endothelial ,  monocytes )  between the layers of original gbm and de novo gbm .
increased concentration of homovanillic acid in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of sebacic acid in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of 4 - hydroxyphenlyllactic acid in the blood circulation .
psoriatic nail abnormality characterized by the presence of neutrophils in the nail bed epithelium ,  hyperkeratosis with parakeratosis ,  presence of exudates on the corneal epithelium ,  focal hypogranulosis and psoriasiform hyperplasia of the nail bed .
enlargement of type ii pneumocytes characterized by qualitative morphologic alterations ,  including cuboidal shapes ,  increased nucleocytoplasmic ratio ,  enlarged nuclei ,  prominent nucleoli ,  and various alterations in their nuclear chromatin .
anomaly of the physiological response to maintain the body's posture when movement and position is altered .
abnormal neck - righting response ,  which is said to be a physiological response when a child is placed flat on his or her back and the head is turned 90 degrees to the right or the left .
presence of one or more manifestations of the acute phase response .
an increased concentration of serum amyloid a in the blood circulation .
limitation of motion of the jaw due to structural changes in a muscle such as the massseter responsible for jaw movement .
an anomaly in the development of the embryo ,  that is ,  of the early developmental stage of development that follows the fertilization of an egg by sperm .
an anomaly in the development of the embryo in a stage prior to implantation .
failure of a fertilized oocyte to undergo the first round of cell division .
an anomaly in the process by a a haploid cell is formed from a diploid cells through meiosis .
anomalous oocyte meiosis
an increased concentration of inosine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of guanosine in the blood circulation .
an increased concentration of beta - sitosterol in the blood circulation .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against aquaporin - 4 .
passage of an increased number of stools containing mucus ,  a thick fluid substance secreted by mucous membranes .
a pleural cobblestone appearance characterized by irregular bumps surrounded by depressed lines in open lung biopsy .
pain  ( an unpleasant sensory and emotional experience )  along the course of a nerve .
aura with affective ,  mnemonic or composite perceptual phenomena including illusory or composite hallucinatory events .
a purely subjective manifestation of an epileptic seizure pertaining to altered cognition .
an epileptic aura is a purely subjective clinical manifestation of an epileptic seizure .
a fourfold or greater increase of usual seizure frequency within a 3 - day period ,  where the patient demonstrates full recovery between seizure events within the cluster .
an increase in the amount of air a person can forcefully expel in one second ,  compared to some standard or previous measure of same subject .
candida infections of the esophagus are considered opportunistic infections and are seen most commonly in immunosuppressed patients ,  the most common symptoms being dysphagia ,  odynophagia ,  and retrosternal pain .
pulmonary hypertensive crisis involves sudden and potentially lethal increases in pap and pvr that cause acute rise in right atrial and right ventricular end - diastolic pressure accompanied by low cardiac output .
any structural anomaly of a blood vessel  ( artery ,  arteriole ,  capillary ,  venule ,  or vein )  .
any deviation from the normal concentration of a metabolite in urine .
an increased level of deoxypyridinoline in the urine .
an abnormally increased level of o - phosphoserine in the blood circulation .
reduced range of motion turning the head side to side .
a deviation from the normal range of concentration of particles in urine .
an abnormally high urinary specific gravity ,  i .e . ,  increased concentration of solutes in the urine .
a behavioral abnormality whereby a person is unable to move freely from one situation ,  activity or aspect of aa problem to another as circumstances demand .
an open sore of the nasal mucosa .
repeated occurrence of episodes of coughing ,  with each episode consisting of at least five minutes of continuous coughing .
hyaline membranes are homogeneous eosinophilic material composed of cellular debris ,  plasma proteins ,  and surfactant \ nplastered against alveolar ducts and alveolar walls .
a specific form of lung inflammation that results from accumulation of lipids in the alveoli .
a type of lipoid pneumonia in which the source of the lipids is the body itself .
a type of lipoid pneumonia in which the source of the lipids is external to the body .
low level of blood oxygen induced by changing from a recumbent to an upright position .
a type of dyspnea that occurs when the affected person changes from a recumbent to an upright position .
a type of leukodystrophy characterized by multiple small cavitations typically in the periventricular and deep cerebral white matter .
telangiectasias  ( small dilated blood vessels located near the surface of the skin or mucous membranes )  located in the trachoebronchial system .
granulomatous inflammation that surrounds the bronchi and bronchioles ,  replacing bronchial walls and mucosa .
any deviation from the normal range of kco .
increased diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide  ( co )  rate constant  ( efficiency index )  .
decreased diffusion capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide  ( co )  rate constant  ( efficiency index )  .
anthracosis is the deposition of black carbon pigment .
increased width of the alveolar septum ,  which is the structure that separates neighboring alveoli .
presence of increased numbers of bombesin - immuno - positive neuroendocrine cells  ( necs )  within distal airways .
presence of increased numbers of bombesin - immuno - positive neuroendocrine cell cluster  ( neuroepithelial bodies )  in the alveolar ducts .
the presence of a left and a right superior vena cava .
inflammation of the cartilage of the nose .
abnormally increased concentration of o - stearoylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
abnormally increased concentration of palmitoylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
reduced level of the compound muscle action potential  ( cmap )  ,  which is recorded following electrical stimulation of a nerve from surface electrodes overlying a muscle supplied by that nerve .
increased level in the urine of a metabolite that results from collagen degradation ,  e .g . ,  a fragment of a collagen produced by a collagenase or serine protease .
an increased amount of pyridinoline in the urine .
abnormal concentration in the blood circulation of a metabolite that results from collagen degradation ,  e .g . ,  a fragment of a collagen produced by a collagenase or serine protease .
an increased concentration of hydroxylysyl - pyridinoline  ( pyridinoline )  in the blood circulation .
any structural abnormality of a bronchial artery .
abnormal arterial anastomosis  ( connection )  between bronchial and pulmonary arteries .
increased caliber of a bronchial artery ,  which can be defined as a bronchial artery diameter that exceeds 2 mm .
increase in the volume of bronchial artery wall due to the enlargement of its component cells .
inflammatory cell infiltration surrounding precapillary pulmonary arteries  ( arterioles ;  20 - 70 micrometer )  .
irregular or changing caliber  ( diameter )  along the tail of the sperm .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against carbonic anhydrase ii .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against lactoferrin .
presence of ropey ,  eosinophilic material  ( brght red on trichrome staining )  consistent with extracapillary fibrin outside of capillary lumina .
the presence of eosinophilic periodic acid schiff  ( pas )  - positive cell free ,  protein - derived material occupying bowman's space .
deposits of hyalinized collagen fibres in the parietal pleura  ( preferentially pleura adjacent to ribs ,  particularly the sixth through ninth ribs )  .
fever that persists longer than expected for an acute infectious disease .
a sudden onset of abdominal pain with associated nausea or vomiting .
ischemia is defined as a restriction of arterial blood supply to a tissue associated with insufficient oxygenation to support the metabolis requirements of the tissue .
restriction of arterial blood supply to a digit  ( finger or toe )  associated with insufficient oxygenation to support the metabolic requirements of the digit .
restriction of arterial blood supply to a testis associated with insufficient oxygenation to support the metabolic requirements of the digit .
restriction of arterial blood supply to a testis associated with insufficient oxygenation to support the metabolic requirements of the digit .
any deviation from the normal concentration of an organic amino compound ,  defined as a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
an increased concentration of o - phosphoethanolamine in the blood circulation .
elevated amount of acetoacetic acid in the urine .
an increased level of acetoacetic acid in the blood circulation .
an increased amount of 2 - hydroxybutyric acid in the urine .
an increased blood concentration of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein  ( comp )  .
inability to initiate changes in activity or movement and to perform ordinary volitional movements rapidly and easily in the lower extremities .
inability to initiate changes in activity or movement and to perform ordinary volitional movements rapidly and easily in the upper extremities .
abnormally diminished movement of the upper extremities .
abnormally diminished movement of the lower extremities .
the accumulation of pericardial fluid with subsequent compression of all cardiac chambers which prevents cardiac filling .
reduced ability to bring the leg toward the midline of the body .
an increased concentration in the blood circulation of a hydroxybutyric acid ,  that is ,  of a compound comprising a butyric acid core carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
elevation of the 2 - hydroxybutyric acid concentration in the blood above the normal range .
elevation of the 3 - hydroxybutyric acid concentration in the blood above the normal range .
focal proliferation of pulmonary artery endothelial cells ,  leading to the formation of complex capillary - like channels .
increased thickness of the intimal layer of the pulmonary artery .
increased amount of collagen ,  proteoglycans ,  and other extracellular matrix proteins resulting in scarring and thickening in the adventia of the pulmonary arterial tree .
a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension in which there is a reduction of mean pulmonary artery pressure  ( mpap )  at leasy 10 mmhg to reach an absolute value of mpap not more than 40 mmhg with an increased or unchanged cardiac output  ( co )  in response to inhaled nitric oxide at 10 - 20 ppm .
a form of pulmonary arterial hypertension with lack of adequate hemodynamic response to no challenge  ( adequate response is defined as a reduction of mean pulmonary artery pressure  ( mpap )  of at least 10 mmhg to reach an absolute value of mpap 40 mmhg or less with an increased or unchanged cardiac output  ( co )  in response to inhaled nitric oxide at 10 - 20 ppm )  .
erythema  ( redness of the skin caused by hyperemia in superficial capillaries )  in the region surrounding a fingernail or toe nail .
venous air embolism is a consequence of air being introduced into the venous circulation ,  and subsequently to the right heart ,  and pulmonary circulation .
focal accumulation of dilated pulmonary capillaries .
dysregulation of the innate immune system characterized by systemic pathobiology ,  i .e . ,  with symptoms that can affect the entire body .
activation of the brain's innate immune system in response to an inflammatory challenge and is characterized by a host of cellular and molecular changes within the brain .
inflammation of the layers of tissue that cover the brain and spinal cord  ( meninges )  and of the fluid - filled space between the meninges  ( subarachnoid space )  when it is caused by disorders that are not infections or by drugs or vaccines .
a form of cytomegalovirus infection characterized by infection and inflammation of the colon .
an erosion of the mucous membrane in the region connecting the ileum and cecum .
a full - thickness defect of the nasal septum .
a deviation from the normal concentration of a keto acid in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased concentration of 3 - methyl - 2 - oxovaleric acid in the blood circulation .
abnormal increase of the concentration of 4 - methyl - 2 - oxopentanoic acid in the blood circulation .
an increased blood concentration of myoglobin .
increased concentration of decenoylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of octenoylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of hexanoylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of glutarylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of propionylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of dodecanoylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
an abnormally reduced concentration in the blood circulation of acylcarnitine ,  which is produced by reversible esterification of the 3 - hydroxyl group of carnitine .
increased concentration of o - butyrylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of o - isovalerylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
elevation of the midupper arm circumference midway between the acromion and olecranon processes of the ulna with the use of a steel or fiberglass tape .
reduction of the midupper arm circumference midway between the acromion and olecranon processes of the ulna with the use of a steel or fiberglass tape .
any deviation from normal concentration of albumin in the blood circulation .
an elevation above the normal concentration of prealbumin in the blood circulation .
a reduction from the normal concentration of prealbumin in the blood circulation .
reduced abilty to move the head back towards the ceiling so that one is looking upwards .
feeding problem necessitating food and nutrient delivery via a tube .
increased amount of a dicarboxylic acid in the urine .
increased amount of a keta acid in the urine .
increased amount of 3 - methyl - 2 - oxovaleric acid in the urine .
increased amount of 4 - methyl - 2 - oxopentanoic acid in the urine .
reduced concentration in the blood circulation of a lipid - transport protein  ( apoliprotein )  .
elevated concentration in the blood circulation of a lipid - transport protein  ( apoliprotein )  .
increased concentration of 3 - hydroxylinoleylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of oleylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
elevated circulating tetradecanoyl concentration .
reduced grip strength .gripping is the motion by which the hand tightly grasps an object or other hand .
a normal apgar score can be coded as 'not low 10 - minute apgar score' .
decreased ability to move the arm away from the midline of the body .
the presence of autoantibodies in the serum that react against extractable nuclear components that are referred to as extractable because they can be extracted from cell nuclei with saline solution .
a deviation from the normal concentration of lipoprotein lipase in the blood circulation .
increased concentration of lipoprotein lipase in the blood circulation .
decreased circulation of bilirubin in the blood circulation .
reduced range of motion resulting in decreased ability to move the ear toward the top of the shoulder .
a reduced ability to flex the shoulder .
folding of cytoplasmic processes of podocytes into the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  with thickening of the lamina densa and microspheres and / or microtubular structures within the gbm .
increased concentration of linoleylcarnitine in the blood circulation .
a point of rupture in the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  where the discontinuous portions of gbm are still identifiable with a basement membrane stain such as periodic acid schiff  ( pas )  or silver .
anomalous appearance or structure of the surface of the glomerular basement membrane .
punctate electron - dense material typically in a band - like distribution along the lamina rara interna and within tubular basement membranes within the subendothelial aspect of the glomerular basement membrane .
increased number of leukocytes internal to the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  ,  but not limited to within glomerular capillaries .
increased number of neutrophils internal to the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  ,  but not limited to within glomerular capillaries .
presence of lipid - filled cells ,  often a macrophage ,  with a vacuolated appearance in the glomerulus often occupying the endocapillary space .
a generalized global  ( over 80% )  increase of mesangial matrix that is present throughout the mesangial stalk  ( with or without associated mesangial hypercellularity )  .
reorganization of podocyte cytoskeletal proteins at the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  aspect of the cell ,  with associated cytoplasmic electron density at the gbm aspect of the podocyte .
increased mesangial extracellular material with interspace width of over 2 mesangial cell nuclei ,  in one or more peripheral mesangial areas .
amyloid spicules are projections of typically silver - positive material from the outer aspect of the glomerular capillary wall ,  perpendicular to the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  ,  most often caused by amyloidosis with the latter confirmed by additional stains .
segmental solidification of the glomerular tuft by increased extracellular matrix ,  causing glomerular capillary obliteration and can include hyalinosis ,  foam cells ,  hypertrophy of overlying glomerular epithelial cells ,  podocyte depletion ,  halo and adhesion of the tuft to the bowman capsule .
segmental solidification of the glomerular tuft by increased extracellular matrix ,  causing glomerular capillary obliteration is present at the vascular pole ,  involving less than 50% of the tuft .
segmental solidification of the glomerular tuft characterized by an adhesion at the tip of the glomerular tuft abutting the proximal tubular taek - off can be accompanied by increased extracellular matrix ,  causing glomerular capillary obliteration at the glomerular tip .
segmental solidification of the glomerular tuft characterized by increased extracellular matrix ,  causing glomerular capillary obliteration at neirhter the tubular or vascular poles .
electron - dense deposits in the lamina densa with a ribbon or a sausage structure .
electron dense deposits in the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  subendothelial space associated with a prominent gbm reflecting an increase in thickness .
prominent glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  reflecting a diffuse and relativly uniform increase in thickness  ( subjective estimate )  with exogenous material deposited between the outer  ( epithelial )  aspect of the gbm and the visceral epithelial cell ,  with varying degrees of incorporation into the gbm .
any deviation from the normal ratio of acylcarnitine  ( i .e . ,  esterified carnitine )  to free carnitine .
an increased concentration of fumarate ,  an intermediate in the citric acid cycle ,  in the cebrebrospinal fluid .
an increased concentration of fumarate ,  an intermediate in the citric acid cycle ,  in the blood circulation .
livedo reticularis is characterized by the presence of a bluish purple ,  mottled or netlike pattern in unbroken circles on the skin .
an elevated ratio of acylcarnitine  ( i .e . ,  esterified carnitine )  to free carnitine .
a reduced ratio of acylcarnitine  ( i .e . ,  esterified carnitine )  to free carnitine .
inflammation of the meninges related to infection by epstein - barr virus .
inflamation of the brain related to infection by epstein - barr virus .
a cutaneous horn is a keratinized non - malignant protrusion on the surface of the skin .
chronic compulsive drug seeking and continued use despite harmful consequences .
addiction to a stimulant drug ,  defined as a drug that typically increases alertness ,  attention and energy while also elevating blood pressure ,  heart rate and breathing .
addiction to cocaine .
addiction to amphetamine or dextroamphetamine .
addiction to opioids .
addiction to a benzodiazepine .
addiction to heroin .
addiction to methylphenidate .
addiction to methamphetamine .
paradoxical embolism describes the passage of a venous or right - sided cardiac thrombus into the arterial or systemic circulation . \ ncomment: paradoxical embolism occurs most commonly through an intracardiac defect at the atrial level ,  but can also be due to another type of right - to - left - shunt ,  as for example in pulmonary arteriovenous malformations .
a lack of humidification of the nasal mucosa .
a cerebral cavernous malformation  ( also known as cavernoma ,  cavernous angioma ,  cavernous hemangioma )  is a collection of structurally abnormal slow - flow capillaries predominantly in the central nervous system .
a structural anomaly of the part of the sperm flagellum that is distal to the sperm midpiece and mitochondrial sheath and which leads into the end piece .
abnormal structure of the sperm axonemal structure which consists of a ring of nine microtubular doublets and a central pair of microtubules ,  giving the classical 9 + 2 microtubular arrangement .
absense of the central pair of microtubules in the sperm axoneme ,  thereby forming a 9 + 0 pattern instead of the normal 9 + 2 pattern .
reduced ability to move the foot up toward the shin .
a reduced amount of testosterone relative in androstenedione in the blood circulation following administration of hcg  ( human chorionic gonadotropin )  .
a deviation from normal cardiac output ,  which is defined as the amount of blood pumped by the heart minute and is the mechanism whereby blood flows around the body ,  especially providing blood flow to the brain and other vital organs .
any deviation from the normal value of the cardiac index ,  defined as cardiac output divided by body surface area .
an elevated cardiac index ,  defined as cardiac output divided by body surface area .
a reduced cardiac index ,  defined as cardiac output divided by body surface area .
a decreased volume of blood pumped by the left and right ventricle ,  per unit time .
an increased volume of blood pumped by the left and right ventricle ,  per unit time .
an increased concentration of brain natriuretic peptide in the blood circulation .
decreased number of platelet dense granules ,  a type of platelet organelle .
a reduced number of platelet alpha granules .
mosaic attenuation refers to heterogeneous areas of differing pulmonary attenuation on ct imaging .
pathological deposition of calcium salts in the aortic annulus ,  a fibrous ring - like structure found at the insertion point of the basal attachments of the aortic valve leaflets within the left ventricular outflow tract .
a reticular pattern of linear or lineonodular densities in apical portions of both the right and left lungs seen initially on high - resolution computed tomography and in case of progression also on standard chest x - ray .
airflow obstruction with a significant response to a bronchodilator defined as an increase in fev1 and / or fvc by 12 percent or more and by at least 200 ml .
airflow obstruction without significant response to a bronchodilator defined as an increase in fev1 and / or fvc by 12 percent or more and by at least 200 ml .
radiological appearance of increased density around the walls of a bronchus or large bronchiole .
nicotine addition can be defined as chronic compulsive nicotine seeking and continued use despite harmful consequences .
extracellular mesangial accumulation of slender proteinaceous fibers .
extracellular mesangial aggregates composed of randomly arranged ,  straight ,  non - branching fibrils that are thicker than amyloid fibrils  ( average diameter about 20 nm )  and are often admixed with smudgy ,  electron - dense material .
unbranched noncollagenous microfibrils within the mesangial matrix ,  composed of proteins not present within the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  ,  most notably fibrillin - 1 ,  that attach to mesangial cells and gbm structural proteins .
extracellular mesangial aggregates composed of non - branching fibrils ,  focally parralel over 30 nm in diameter .
extracellular mesangial aggregates composed of fine ,  randomly oriented ,  non - branching fibrils 8 - 12 nm in diameter ,  often forming a cottony mass .
lobular ,  round to oval mesangial lesions with an acellular hyaline / matrix core surrounded by compressed mesangial nuclei .
a granuloma that is associated with necrotic changes .
villitis of unknown etiology  ( synonymous with villitis of unknown aetiology )  is a histologic diagnosis and ,  although it may have a variable distribution ,  evidence indicates that 3 parenchymal blocks will identify 62% of villitis ,  reaching an asymptote of 6 and 7 blocks identifying 85% of villitis .
embolization of intravascular thrombus containing microorganisms into the distant tissues via arterial system .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against the mi - 2 antigen .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against ro / ssa autoantigens .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against nucleoporin 62 .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against proteinase 3 .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against histone antigens .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against myeloperoxidase .
anti - pm - scl antibodies target components of rna - processing exosome complex in the nucleolus .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against bactericidal / permeability - increasing protein  ( bpi )  .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against glycoprotein - 210 .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against tissue transglutaminase .
stasis dermatitis commonly occurs in older age .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the blood circulation that react against epidermal transglutaminase .
any deviation from the normal direction of the ventricular axis .
a kind of abnormal ventricular axis in the ekg whereby the qrs axis falls between  + 90 degrees and 180 degrees ,  or beyond  + 100 degrees if the adult range is used .
a kind of abnormal ventricular axis in the ekg whereby the qrs axis falls between  - 30 degrees and  - 90 degrees .
a kind of abnormal ventricular axis in the ekg whereby the qrs axis fall sbetween  - 90 degrees and 180 degrees .
a kind of abnormal ventricular axis in the ekg whereby the qrs complex is isoelectric or equiphasic in all leads with no dominant qrs deflection .
the presence of small ,  tortuous ,  micronodular ,  serpiginous intrapulmonary vessels often in the subpleural lung or in proximity to centrilobular arterioles ,  coursing in directions inconsistent with known arteriolar anatomy .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against histone h1 .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against histone h4 .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against histone h3 .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against histone h2a .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against histone h2b .
localized thrombosis in pulmonary arteries frequently found in patients with idiopathic and hereditary pulmonary arterial hypertension and pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with congenital heart disease .
pre - capillary pulmonary hypertension is a haemodynamic condition characterised by elevated mean pulmonary artery pressure  ( mpap over 20 mmhg )  and pulmonary vascular resistance  ( pvr 3 wood units or more )  accompanied by normal pulmonary artery wedge pressure  ( pawp not more than 15 mmhg )  .
insufficient growth hormone secretion following administration of growth hormone - releasing hormone .
an abnormal finding in a compound motor action potential measurement in emg .
the absence of any palpable lymph nodes in the presence of symptoms suggesting infection in that drainage area should raise suspicion for immunodeficiency diseases .
abnormal accumulation of lymphocytes in the interstitium of the lung .
follicular bronchiolitis is a polyclonal hyperplasia of bronchiolar associated lymphoid tissue characterized by the is characterized by the development of lymphoid follicles with germinal centers in walls of the small airways .
temporally uniform  ( all lesions are in the same stage of evolution )  pattern of diffuse inflammatory interstitial process ,  mostly symmetric over the entire lung ,  involving mainly the alveolar septa .
a type of non - specific interstitial pneumonia in which interstitial thickening is due to uniform dense or loose fibrosis and mild chronic inflammation .
a type of non - specific interstitial pneumonia in which interstitial thickening is mainly due to infiltration of inflammatory cells and type ii pneumocyte hyperplasia .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the vulvar region .
synechia vulvae  ( adhesions of the labia minora )  are characterized by a complete or partial fusion of the labia minora in the midline .
passage of excessive amounts of gas and the feeling of abdominal fullness and bloating .
a circumscribed area of pus or necrotic debris in the groin  ( inguinal region )  .
large branching stones that fill part of all of the renal pelvis and renal calyces and they can be complete or partial depending on the level of occupancy of the collecting system .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against the h3 - h4 histone dimer .
the presence of autoantibodies in the blood circulation that react against the h2a - h2b histone dimer .
an abnormally increased amount of 7 - biopterin in the urine .
increased concentration of globotriaosylceramide  ( gb3 )  in the blood circulation .
an abnormally increased amount of 3 - methylcrotonylglycine in the urine .
reduced activity of the linked disaccharidase ,  sucrase - isomaltase ,  which is a glycoprotein localized to the brush border membrane of small intestinal villi .
fibrillar deposits located between the outer  ( epithelial )  aspect of the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  and the visceral epithelial cell ,  with varying degrees of incorporation into the gbm .
a type of fibrillar glomerular subepithelial deposit characterized by extracellular aggregates composed of fine ,  randomly oriented ,  non - branching fibrils 8 - 12 nm in diameter ,  often forming a cottony mass .
a type of fibrillar glomerular subepithelial deposit characterized by extracellular aggregates of randomly arranged ,  straight ,  non - branching fibrils that are thicker than amyloid fibrils  ( average diameter about 20 nm )  and are often admixed with smudgy ,  electron - dense material .
a type of glomerular subepithelial deposit characterized by finely granular material deposited between the outer  ( epithelial )  aspect of the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  and the visceral epithelial cell ,  with varying degrees of incorporation into the gbm and corresponding to immunoglobulin and / or complement by immunofluorescence / immunohistochemistry .
a type of glomerular subepithelial deposit characterized by a moderately electron - dense ,  generally homogenous ,  amorphous - appearing extracellular material located between the outer  ( epithelial )  aspect of the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  and the visceral epithelial cell ,  with varying degrees of incorporation into the gbm .
deposits located between the outer  ( epithelial )  aspect of the glomerular basement membrane  ( gbm )  and the visceral epithelial cell ,  with varying degrees of incorporation into the gbm .
glomerulus showing markedly and irregularly thickened capillary walls with massive fuchsinophilic subendothelial deposits ,  resulting in narrowing of capillary lumina .
a rash composed of pustular lesions .
interruption of the procecss of diffferentiation of hematopoietic cells in the bone marrow ,  manifested by an increased proportion of immature cells in the bone marrow .
a type of bone marrow maturation arrest characterized by accumulation of neutrophil precursor cells in the bone marrow .
focal rounded or ovoid opacity ,  not more than 3 cm in diameter .
a type of pulmonary nodule whose density obscures the underlying parenchyma and thus has a  \ "solid \ " appearance .
pulmonary subsolid nodules  ( ssns )  refer to pulmonary nodules with pure ground - glass nodules and part - solid ground - glass nodules .
part - solid pulmonary nodules are nodules that present with both ground - glass and solid components in which the underlying lung architecture cannot be visualized .
pure ground - glass pulmonary nodules  ( ggns )  are defined as focal nodular areas of increased lung attenuation through which lung parenchymal structures ,  such as the pulmonary vessels or bronchial structures ,  can be observed .
solid ,  homogenous nodules characterised by a smooth margin and oval ,  rounded ,  lentiform or triangular shape .
aberrant or accessory bronchus supplying the upper lobe originating from the lateral wall of the trachea .
accessory bronchus originating from trachea replacing one of the segmental branches of the anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus .
accessory bronchus originating from the medial wall of the right or left ban bronchus or bronchus intermedius .
accessory bronchus which exits the trachea in addition to an anatomically normal branching upper lobe bronchus .
accessory entire right upper lobe bronchial system originating from the trachea with absent anatomically normal upper lobe bronchus .
a perifissural nodule that has contact with the interlobar septum  ( and is therefore considered typical )  .
a perifissural nodule that does not have contact with the interlobar septum  ( and is therefore considered atypical )  .
bronchial diverticula are blind - ended outpouchings arising from the bronchial tree .
a migratory ,  centrifugal ,  erythematous ,  tender ,  non - purpuric ,  and well - demarcated plaque .
information about the delivery and health status at birth typically elicited as a part of the past medical history .
a congenital cytomegalovirus  ( cmv )  infection of the newborn can follow either a primary or recurrent maternal infection .
a feeling of general unease or nervousness that may be triggered by a sense of vulnerability or instability which is perceived as threatening .
increase above normal levels of non - hdl cholesterol in the blood .
increased amount of harderoporphyrin in the urine .
intermittent abdominal pain with diarrhea and / or constipation .
the presence of an antibody of subclass igg4 in the blood circulation that is directed against the organism's own cells or tissues .
brain fog is a type of transient cognitive dysfunction that comprises a constellation of symptoms that impair intellectual functioning to a level that interferes with daily activities ,  commonly including forgetfulness ,  mental slowness ,  difficulty thinking or focusing ,  a perceived slowing of mental processing speed ,  inability to find the right words ,  a sensation that the mind went blank or is  \ "cloudy \ " .
inflammation of the vertebrae  ( vertebral bodies )  or spine .
alveolar volume  ( va )  is a volume accessible during 10 - second breath - hold ,  measured during a single breath manouver .
an abnormal reduction in alveolar volume .
an abnormal elevation in alveolar volume .
post - capillary pulmonary hypertension is a hemodynamic condition characterised by elevated mean pulmonary artery pressure  ( mpap greater than 20 mmhg )  and pulmonary artery wedge pressure  ( pawp greater than 15 mmhg )  and pulmonary vascular resistance  ( pvr less than 3 wood units )  .
combined pre -  and post - capillary pulmonary hypertension is a haemodynamic condition characterised by elevated mean pulmonary artery pressure  ( mpap over 20 mmhg )  and pulmonary artery wedge pressure  ( pawp over 15 mmhg )  and pulmonary vascular resistance  ( pvr at least 3 wodd units )  .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the blood circulation that react against endomysial tissue transglutaminase 2  ( ttg2 )  .
intralobular septal thickening is a computed tomography finding of increased width of the walls  ( septa )  within a pulmonary lobule .
embolization of intravascular thrombus containing microorganisms into the pulmonary parenchyma via arterial system .
erosion  ( loss of substance )  of the acetabular subchondral cortical bone .
deposition of calcium salts in the leaflets  ( cusps )  of the aortic valve .
deposition of calcium salts in the leaflets  ( cusps )  of the mitral valve .
increased concentation of very long - chain fatty acids in the blood circulation .
increased amount of erythropoietin in the blood circulation .
a developmental defect characterized by an abnormal cleft  ( v - shaped indentation of the stalklike part of the brain consisting of the medulla oblongata ,  the midbrain ,  and the pons .
absence of the fibers that connect the contralateral hippocampi via the crura of the fornix and run beneath the posterior portion of the corpus callosum .
the silhouette sign is the absence of depiction of an anatomic soft - tissue border .
a pseudocavity appears as an oval or round area of low attenuation in lung nodules ,  masses ,  or areas of consolidation that represent spared parenchyma ,  normal or ectatic bronchi ,  or focal emphysema rather than cavitation .
paraseptal emphysema is characterized by predominant involvement of the distal alveoli and their ducts and sacs .
a parenchymal band is a linear opacity ,  usually 1 - 3 mm thick and up to 5 cm long that usually extends to the visceral pleura \ n ( which is often thickened and may be retracted at the site of contact )  .
a mycetoma is a discrete mass of intertwined hyphae ,  usually of an aspergillus species ,  matted together by mucus ,  fibrin ,  and cellular debris colonizing a cavity ,  usually from prior fibrocavitary disease  ( eg ,  tuberculosis or sarcoidosis )  .
a broncholith ,  a calcified peribronchial lymph node that erodes into an adjacent bronchus ,  is most often the consequence of histoplasma or tuberculous infection .
a bronchocele is bronchial dilatation due to retained secretions  ( mucoid impaction )  usually caused by proximal obstruction ,  either congenital  ( eg ,  bronchial atresia )  or acquired  ( eg ,  obstructing cancer )  .
irregular and nodular thickening of interlobular septa reminiscent of a row of beads .
a gas - filled space ,  seen as lucency or low - attenuation area ,  within a nodule ,  mass or area of parenchymal consolidations .
a juxtaphrenic peak is a small triangular opacity based at the apex of the dome of a hemidiaphragm ,  associated with upper lobe volume loss of any cause  ( eg ,  postirradiation fibrosis or upper lobectomy )  .
linear atelectasis is a focal area of subsegmental atelectasis with a linear configuration ,  almost always extending to the pleura .
rounded atelectasis is rounded collapsed lung associated with invaginated fibrotic pleura and thickened and fibrotic interlobular septa .
this pattern appears as thickened interlobular septa and intralobular lines superimposed on a background of ground - glass opacity ,  resembling irregularly shaped paving stones .
tingling  ( often refered to as a pins and needles feeling )  and numbness in the hand .
an air crescent is a collection of air in a crescentic shape that separates the wall of a cavity from an inner mass .
an air bronchogram is a pattern of air - filled  ( low - attenuation )  bronchi on a background of opaque  ( high - attenuation )  airless lung .
air trapping is retention of air in the lung distal to an obstruction  ( usually partial )  .
gangliogliomas are rare tumours of the central nervous system .
a reduction in an individual's subjective assessment of his or her sense of well - being and ability to perform social roles .
a reduction in the ability to perform activities of daily living because of illness of functional deficits as compared to previous abilities .
a reduction in the subjective feeling of mental well being .
a structural anomaly of the amygdala .
a increase in the volume  ( size )  of the amygdyla .
organizing pneumonia manifests as a histologic pattern characterized by loose plugs of connective tissue in the airspaces and distal airways .
oligemia is a reduction in pulmonary blood volume .
the tinel test is performed by lightly tapping  ( percussing )  over the median nerve .
the phalen maneuver is performed by having the patient hold both wrists in complete and forced flexion  ( pushing the dorsal surfaces of both hands together )  for 30 - 60 seconds .
pulmonary blood flow redistribution refers to any departure from the normal distribution of blood flow in the lungs that is caused by an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance elsewhere in the pulmonary vascular bed .
a clinically recognizable state of increased vulnerability resulting from a decline in reserve and function across multiple physiologic systems such that the ability to cope with everyday or acute stressors is compromised .
a behavioral or psychological symptom that typically occurs following exposure to one or more traumatic events .
acute respiratory distress syndrome  ( ards )  is defined as an acute disorder that starts within seven days of the inciting event and is characterized by bilateral lung infiltrates and severe progressive hypoxemia in the absence of any evidence of cardiogenic pulmonary edema .
the term acute coronary syndrome  ( acs )  refers to any group of clinical symptoms compatible with acute myocardial ischemia and includes unstable angina  ( ua )  ,  non - st - segment elevation myocardial infarction  ( nstemi )  ,  and st - segment elevation myocardial infarction  ( stemi )  .
any structural anomaly of the red nucleus ,  a part of the midbrain involved in control of movement .
the most common form of astrocytoma  ( who grade i )  in childhood .
oligodendroglioma is a type of diffusely infiltrating glioma and constitutes approximately 5% of primary intracranial tumors .
pleomorphic xanthoastrocytomas  ( pxa )  are rare low - grade astrocytomas  ( who grade ii )  typically found in the temporal lobe and classically presenting with epilepsy .
increased intensity of muscle tendon reflexes in jaw .
ay deviation from the normal distribution of fiber types in skeletal muscle .
an abnormal distribution of muscle fiber types in muscle tissue .
enlargment of mitochondria .mitochondrial hypertrophy is not discernible by light microscopy .
a deficit in the retention of pieces of information  ( memory chunks )  for a relatively short time  ( usually up to 30 seconds )  .
a deficit in the ability to retrieve information from long - term memory ,  which can be defined as a seemingly unlimited capacity to store memories can last years and relate to the performance of actions or skills  ( i .e . ,  procedural memories ,  knowing how )  and memories of facts ,  rules ,  concepts ,  and events  ( i .e . ,  declarative memories ,  knowing that )  .
the impaired ability to establish new long - term memories .
inability to retrieve information from the long - term memory that was acquired before the onset of amnesia .
a reduction in the ability to retrieve information about how to perform activities ,  such as how to ride a bike or drive a car ,  how to perform activities of daily living ,  or how to play a musical instrument .
impaired ability to remember facts and events .
perception of an odor in the absence of any stimuli in the surrounding environment that could emit the odor .
the false perception of tactile sensory input that creates a hallucinatory sensation of physical contact with an imaginary object .
this is a general term that denotes a reduced ability to perform the work that one performed prior to an illness ,  and may be related to pain ,  cognitive dysfunction ,  fatigue or other physical disabilities .
acral areas of erythema with vesicles or pustules .
a type of acute - onset skin rash characterized by multiple vesicles ,  which are circumscribed ,  fluid - containing ,  epidermal elevation generally considered less than 10mm in diameter at the widest point .
a type of vesicular eruption in which the vesicles are at same stages .
a type of vesicular eruption in which the vesicles are at different stages .
an acute onset rash characterized by by multiple vesicles ,  which are circumscribed ,  fluid - containing ,  epidermal elevations with a diameter less than 10mm at the widest point ,  and by multiple papules ,  which are circumscribed ,  solid epidermal elevations with no visible fluid with a diameter less than 10mm at the widest point .
increased density related to increased bone mass in the outermost layer  ( edge )  of the iliac wing .
this finding is a thin curvilinear opacity ,  1 - 3 mm in thickness ,  lying less than 1 cm from and parallel to the pleural surface  ( fig 68 )  .
dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor  ( dnt )  is a benign glioneuronal neoplasm that most commonly occurs in children and young adults and may present with medically intractable ,  chronic seizures .
an increased amount of homogentisic acid in the urine .
a feeling of sadness characterized by crying episodes that can come on suddenly and are not under usual social control .
this condition is caused by slow - growing conglomeration of dust particles and collagen deposition in individuals  ( mostly coal workers )  heavily exposed to inorganic dust .
increased thickness of the stratum corneum  ( the outer layer of the skin )  in the skin surrounding the mouth .
an increase in the amount of airway mucus .
a perception of shortness of breath that occurs independently of exertion .
pathological thickening of the pulmonary interstitium visualized radiographically and divided into interlobular and intralobular septal thickening .
repeated implantation failure refers to a situation in which embryos of good quality fail to implant following several in vitro fertilization  ( ivf )  treatment cycles .
the presence of autoantibodies  ( immunoglobulins )  in the serum that react against anti - signal recognition particle .
the occurrence of multiple distinct meningiomas in the same individual .
atrophy with gliosis of the hippocampus with loss of neurons and the normal cortical architecture .
focal epileptiform eeg discharges recorded in the frontal region .
focal epileptiform eeg discharges recorded in the temporal region .
focal epileptiform eeg discharges recorded in the central region .
focal epileptiform eeg discharges recorded in the parietal region .
focal epileptiform eeg discharges recorded in the occipital region .
focal epileptiform eeg discharges recorded in the centrotemporal region .
an autonomic epileptic aura is a purely subjective manifestation of an epileptic seizure pertaining to autonomic nervous system function .
abnormal structure of the venous sinuses that drain blood from the cerebral veins and cerebrospinal fluid  ( csf )  from the arachnoid granulations to the internal jugular veins .
an intracranial thrombosis of the venous sinuses .
an abnormally thin corpus callous ,  due to atrophy ,  hypoplasia or agenesis .
a deviation from the normal circulating concentration of ferritin .
polyarthritis refers to a joint disease that involves at least five joints .
an abnormally increased concentration in the blood circulation of acylcarnitine ,  which is produced by reversible esterification of the 3 - hydroxyl group of carnitine .
an increased volume of the endomysium ,  which is a connective tissue sheath that surrounds each muscule fiber .
an anomaly of the cerebral blood vessels .
an anomaly of the sacroiliac joint ,  which connects the base of the spine  ( sacrum )  to the ilium  ( a hip bone )  .
an increase in the level of o - phosphoethanolamine in the urine .
chornic neutropenia arising from an impaired proliferation and maturation of myeloid progenitor cells in the bone marrow .
an abnormality of a cartilage of nasal septum .
a structural abnormality of a mandibular symphysis .
an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
a continuant that is a bearer of quality and realizable entity entities ,  in which other entities inhere and which itself cannot inhere in anything .
an occurrent that has temporal proper parts and for some time t ,  p s - depends_on some material entity at t .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
a continuant that inheres in or is borne by other entities .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion resulting from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxylic acid groups of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid .
the conjugate base of gamma - amino - beta - hydroxybutyric acid arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a group of fat - soluble retinoids produced via metabolism of provitamin a carotenoids .
any steroid substituted by a formyl group .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 27 - carbon  ( cholestane )  skeleton .
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 19 - carbon  ( androstane )  skeleton .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
a naphthoquinone in which the oxo groups of the quinone moiety are at positions 1 and 4 of the parent naphthalene ring .
a citrate anion obtained by deprotonation of the three carboxy groups as well as the hydroxy group of citric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of ethylmalonic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion resulting from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxylic acid groups of ethylmalonic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of oxalic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of sebacic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of 3 - methylsuccinic acid .
an n - acylglycinate obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of hippuric acid  ( n - benzoylglycine )  and its derivatives .
a primary ammonium ion obtained by protonation of the amino group of 5 - aminolevulinic acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that results from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxylic acid groups of any 3 - hydroxydicarboxylic acid .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid that contains no carbon - carbon double bonds .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any oxo dicarboxylic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of n - hexanoylglycine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of 1 - methylhistidine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of 3 - methylhistidine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of n - isobutyrylglycine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a  hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion which is obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of homovanillic acid .
a tricarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of citric acid .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to r ,  which can represent hydrogens ,  a carbon chain ,  or other groups .
any phenol carrying an additional methoxy substituent at the ortho - position .
an alcohol where the hydroxy group is attached to a saturated carbon atom adjacent to a double bond  ( r groups may be h ,  organyl ,  etc .
an allylic alcohol in which the carbon atom that links the double bond to the hydroxy group is also attached to two hydrogens .
a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms ,  usually but not necessarily adjacent .
an organic group derived from any 3 - oxo - delta ( 4 )  - steroid .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
any steroid that has beta - configuration at position 5 .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino group of any tertiary amino compound .
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any sterol containing two double bonds between positions 5 - 6 and 7 - 8 .
any c21 - steroid carrying a hydroxy substituent at the 17alpha - position .
any member of a group of hydroxy steroids occuring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
an apoprotein is a protein devoid of its characteristic prosthetic group or metal .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
an alpha - oxyketone that has a hydroxy group as the alpha - oxy moiety .
a carboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any retinoid carboxy group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a  - ch2  ( methylene )  group .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing two organyl groups .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with a primary amine ;  formula rc ( =o ) nhr ( 1 )  .
any saturated fatty acid containing 4 carbons .
an antigenic epitope recognized by an anti - bilirubin monoclonal antibody designated 24g7 .
an organic group forming part of ,  and a proposed epitope within ,  globoside gm1 .
a trisaccharide beta - d - glucosyl group obtained by removal of the hydroxy group from the hemiacetal function of alpha - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucose .
zwitterionic form of 3 - aminoisobutyric acid arising from migration of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a beta - d - glucosyl group derived from the trisaccharide n - acetyl - alpha - neuraminyl -  ( 2 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucose .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
the d - stereoisomer of 4 - hydroxyproline .
a peptide hormone which consists of two polypeptide chains ,  a -  and b -  chains which are linked together by disulfide bonds .
a member of the class of carbohydrates and carbohydrate derivatives that is any oligosaccharide or polysaccharide in which the identity of one or more of the individual monosaccharide units ,  their connectivity  ( position of attachment )  or the stereochemistry  ( alpha -  or beta -  )  of one or more of the glycosidic linkages is not known .
an amino disaccharide that is 2 - acetamido - 2 - deoxy - d - galactopyranose in which the hydroxy group at position 3 has been converted to the corresponding d - galactopyranoside .
an enal that consists of 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 9 - nona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraenal  ( double bond geometry unspecified )  carrying a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group at the 9 - position .
a purine nucleobase found in humans and other organisms .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is propanoic acid with an amino group at position 2 and a sulfanyl group at position 3 .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of pyruvic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
a retinoic acid in which all four exocyclic double bonds have e -   ( trans -  )  geometry .
the simplest  ( and the only achiral )  proteinogenic amino acid ,  with a hydrogen atom as its side chain .
prostaglandin f2alpha in which the hydroxy group at position 9 has been oxidised to the corresponding ketone .
a n - alkylglycine that is the n - methyl derivative of glycine .
an imidazolidine - 2 , 4 - dione that is 5 - aminohydantoin in which a carbamoyl group is attached to the exocyclic nitrogen .
a sialodiosylceramide consisting of the trisaccharide alpha - neu5ac -  ( 2 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - gal -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glc attached to the primary hydroxy function of ceramide .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a dipeptide that is the n -  ( beta - alanyl )  derivative of l - histidine .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
a straight - chain ,  sixteen - carbon ,  saturated long - chain fatty acid .
any fatty acid anion containing a ring composed of carbon atoms .
a carbohydrate acid derivative anion that is a polyanionic form of heparan sulfate arising from global deprotonation of the carboxy and n - sulfo groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any n - acyl - amino acid in which the amino acid moiety has d configuration .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy groups of malonic acid .
a 2 - hydroxyglutarate ( 2 -  )  that has  ( 2r )  - configuration .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
any 3 - hydroxy steroid whose skeleton is closely related to cholestan - 3 - ol  ( additional carbon atoms may be present in the side chain )  .
an amino sulfonic acid that is the 2 - amino derivative of ethanesulfonic acid .
d - glucopyranose with beta configuration at the anomeric centre .
a fatty acid with a chain length ranging from c13 to c22 .
a pentitol  ( five - carbon sugar alcohol )  having meso - configuration ,  being derived from ribose by reduction of the carbonyl group .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having d - configuration .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is pyruvic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a 4 - hydroxyphenyl group .
an optically active form of lactate having  ( r )  - configuration .
an oxoproline having the oxo group placed at the 5 - position .
an optically active form of glutamic acid having l - configuration .
a mannose with d - configuration .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
an anhydro sugar of d - glucitol .
a gamma - amino acid comprising 4 - aminobutyric acid having a 2 - hydroxy substituent .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from thiosulfuric acid .
a cholestanoid consisting of cholestane having a double bond at the 5 , 6 - position as well as a 3beta - hydroxy group .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a branched fatty acid comprising propanoic acid carrying a methyl branch at c - 2 .
a mucopolysaccharide composed of repeating beta - d - glucopyranuronosyl -  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - n - acetylgalactosaminyl units .
a carboxylic ester obtained by formal condensation of the hydroxy group of retinol with the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid .
an n - acyl - amino acid in which amino acid specified is glycine .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a 2 - aminopurine carrying a 6 - oxo substituent .
a lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or di - ester .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid consisting of hexadecanoic acid carrying methyl substituents at positions 3 ,  7 ,  11 and 15 .
the d - enantiomer of proline .
any member of the class of menaquinones that is 2 - methyl - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone with an unsaturated isoprenoid chain at the 3 - position .
compounds having the structure rsr  ( r = / = h )  .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of propionic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
any neuraminic acid carrying an n - acyl substituent .
a one - carbon compound with formula co2 in which the carbon is attached to each oxygen atom by a double bond .
a naturally occurring polypeptide synthesized at the ribosome .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
an optically active form of lactate having  ( s )  - configuration .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
the parent compound of the 6 - aminopurines ,  composed of a purine having an amino group at c - 6 .
any dicarboxylic acid carrying a hydroxy group on the carbon atom at position alpha to the carboxy group .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
a lactam obtained by formal cyclocondensation of creatine .
a pyrimidinemonocarboxylic acid that is uracil bearing a carboxy substituent at position c - 6 .
any oligosaccharide ,  polysaccharide or their derivatives consisting of monosaccharides or monosaccharide derivatives linked by glycosidic bonds .
an aminoalkylindole consisting of indole having a 2 - aminoethyl group at the 3 - position .
a 2 - hydroxyglutarate ( 2 -  )  that has  ( 2s )  - configuration .
an oxo dicarboxylate obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of 2 - oxoglutaric acid .
a sulfur - containing amino acid that is butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a methylthio substituent at position 4 .
an optically inactive hexitol having meso - configuration .
a 21 - hydroxy steroid that consists of pregn - 4 - ene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 11 and 21 and oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 .
a dicarboxylic acid that is glutaric acid in which one of the two hydrogens at position 3 is substituted by a hydroxy group ,  while the other is substituted by a methyl group .
a gamma - amino acid that is butanoic acid with the amino substituent located at c - 4 .
a glycine derivative having methyl and amidino groups attached to the nitrogen .
the d - enantiomer of 5 - oxoproline .
a tricarboxylic acid trianion ,  obtained by deprotonation of the three carboxy groups of citric acid .
a naturally - occurring beta - amino acid comprising propionic acid with the amino group in the 3 - position .
a member of the class of  biladienes that is a linear tetrapyrrole with the dipyrrole units being of both exovinyl and endovinyl type .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is ethane substituted by carboxyl groups at positions 1 and 2 .
the simplest member of the class of propane - 1 , 2 - diols ,  consisting of propane in which a hydrogen at position 1 and a hydrogen at position 2 are substituted by hydroxy groups .
a sterol ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with the 3 - hydroxy group of cholesterol .
an n - acylneuraminic acid where the n - acyl group is specified as acetyl .
a c21 - steroid hormone in which a pregnane skeleton carries oxo substituents at positions 3 and 20 and is unsaturated at c ( 4 )  - c ( 5 )  .
the l - enantiomer of aspartic acid .
a 2 - hydroxydicarboxylic acid that is glutaric acid in which one hydrogen alpha -  to a carboxylic acid group is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
the meso - diastereomer of butane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 - tetrol .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexanoic acid  ( also known as caproic acid )  .
an amino - acid betaine that is butanoate substituted with a hydroxy group at position c - 3 and a trimethylammonium group at c - 4 .
a pentitol  ( five - carbon sugar alcohol )  having meso - configuration ,  being derived from xylose by reduction of the carbonyl group .
an optically active form of asparagine having l - configuration .
pyrrolidine in which the pro - s hydrogen at position 2 is substituted by a carboxylic acid group .
any 3beta - hydroxy - steroid that contains a double bond between positions 5 and 6 .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
the 7h - tautomer of purine .
the conjugate base of propionic acid ;  a key precursor in lipid biosynthesis .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that results from the removal of a proton from both of the carboxylic acid groups of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric acid .
a retinol in which all four exocyclic double bonds have e -   ( trans -  )  geometry .
an androstanoid having 17beta - hydroxy and 3 - oxo groups ,  together with unsaturation at c - 4 - c - 5 . .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
the d - enantiomer of aspartic acid .
a purine nucleobase that consists of purine bearing an oxo substituent at position 6 .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon at position 2 has  ( s )  - configuration .
a sulfur - containing amino acid obtained by the oxidation of two cysteine molecules which are then linked via a disulfide bond .
a dicarboxylic acid that is pyrole bearing aminomethyl ,  carboxymethyl and 2 - carboxyethyl substituents at positions 2 ,  3 and 4 respectively .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid containing five carbon atoms .
a c4 - dicarboxylate resulting from the removal of a proton from both carboxylic acid groups of methylmalonic acid .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
an organic disulfide obtained by oxidative dimerisation of homocysteine .
a carbohydrate that is an acyclic polyol having the general formula hoch2 [ ch ( oh )  ] nch2oh  ( formally derivable from an aldose by reduction of the carbonyl group )  .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
the simplest delta - amino acid in which the hydrogens at the gamma position are replaced by an oxo group .
the ethanolamine mono - ester of phosphoric acid ,  and a metabolite of phospholipid metabolism .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
the simplest member of the class toluenes consisting of a benzene core which bears a single methyl substituent .
any d - aldose having a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a glucose with d - configuration .
a 17alpha - hydroxy - c21 - steroid that is pregn - 4 - ene substituted by oxo groups at positions 3 and 20 and hydroxy groups at positions 11 ,  17 and 21 .
a triol with a structure of propane substituted at positions 1 ,  2 and 3 by hydroxy groups .
a modified amino acid generated by enzymic means from homocysteine and serine .
ceramides  ( n - acyl - sphingoid bases )  are a major subclass of sphingoid base derivatives with an amide - linked fatty acid .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond  ( where x is a halogen atom )  .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine substituted at position 3 by a hydroxy group .
a hydroxycalciol that is calcidiol in which the pro - s hydrogen of calcidiol is replaced by a hydroxy group .
any glyceride resulting from the condensation of all three hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is a linear five - carbon dicarboxylic acid .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  ( "donate" )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid having  ( 2r )  - configuration .
a retinal in which all four exocyclic double bonds have e -   ( trans -  )  geometry .
the d - enantiomer of glucitol  ( also known as d - sorbitol )  .
a hydroxycalciol that is calciol in which the hydrogen at position 25 has been replaced by a hydroxy group .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of butyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
a member of the class of phylloquinones that consists of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone having methyl and phytyl groups at positions 2 and 3 respectively .
any polysaccharide containing a substantial proportion of aminomonosaccharide residues .
an n - acylglycine in which the acyl group is specified as benzoyl .
an optically active form of 4 - hydroxyproline having l - trans - configuration .
a monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a 4 - hydroxyphenyl group .
any six - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldohexose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketohexose )  .
a tertiary amine that is ammonia in which each hydrogen atom is substituted by an methyl group .
a biomacromolecule consisting of large numbers of monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
an optically active form of 5 - oxoproline having l - configuration .
an alpha - amino acid that is phenylalanine bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 4 on the phenyl ring .
the parent compound of the citrulline class consisting of ornithine having a carbamoyl group at the n ( 5 )  - position .
an alpha - amino acid that is glutaric acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
the l - stereoisomer of 4 - hydroxyproline .
catechol in which the hydrogen at position 4 is substituted by a 2 - aminoethyl group .
an iron group element atom that has atomic number 26 .
an alpha - amino acid that is pentanoic acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 5 .
an iodothyronine compound having iodo substituents at the 3 -  ,  3' -  and 5 - positions .
a glycotetraosylceramide having n - acetyl - beta - d - galactosaminyl -  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - alpha - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucose as the tetrasaccharide component .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
any form of fucose having l configuration .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
any of a group of glycosaminoglycans with repeating units consisting of variously sulfated beta1 -  > 4 - linked l - iduronyl -  ( alpha1 -  > 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - galactosamine units .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylacetic acid .
a member of the class of cobalamins that is vitamin b12 in which the cyano group is replaced by a 5' - deoxyadenos - 5' - yl moiety .
any  oxo steroid carrying the oxo group at position 17 .
a straight - chain 3 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid comprising a butyric acid core with a single hydroxy substituent in the 3 -  position ;  a ketone body whose levels are raised during ketosis ,  used as an energy source by the brain during fasting in humans .
an aromatic ether that is the 3 - o - methyl ether of 3 , 4 - dihydroxymandelic acid .
a monohydroxyproline where the hydroxy group is located at the 4 - position .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the 5 - methyl - 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid or l - glutamate units .
any aminopurine having the amino substituent at the 2 - position .
any compound having 6 - aminopurine  ( adenine )  as part of its structure .
any n - acylamino acid having l - configuration .
an amino acid derivative in which at least one of the hydrogens of the amino group has been replaced by a methyl group .
an n - alkylglycine that is sarcosine and derivatives of sarcosine arising by replacement of the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen by a hydrocarbyl group .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of an aldonic acid .
any carbohydrate acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde functional group of an aldose to a carboxylic acid functional group .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
any amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by alkyl groups .
an alcohol containing an amino functional group in addition to the alcohol - defining hydroxy group .
a disaccharide derivative that is a disaccharide having one or more substituted or unsubstituted amino groups in place of hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
any purine having at least one amino substituent .
intramolecular ethers formally arising by elimination of water from two hydroxy groups of a single molecule of a monosaccharide  ( aldose or ketose )  or monosaccharide derivative .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a substance that destroys or inhibits replication of viruses .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 2 - amino - 2 - oxoethyl group .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - aspartic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( asparagine ,  lysine ,  methionine ,  threonine and isoleucine )  .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of succinic acid bearing a single alpha - amino substituent
any of a group of compounds ,  both naturally occurring and synthetic ,  that induce cell elongation in plant stems  ( from greek alphaupsilonxialphanuomega ,  "to grow" )  .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
any amino acid - derived zwitterion  -  such as glycine betaine  ( n , n , n - trimethylammonioacetate )   -  in which the ammonium nitrogen carries three methyl substituents .
any  amino acid  in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
an oligoglycosylceramide consisting of a glycotetraosyl moiety attached to the ceramide oxygen with an unspecified n - acyl substituent attached to the ceramide nitrogen .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
any member of the class of chromanes that is chromane substituted by one or more hydroxy groups .
the part  ( atom or group of atoms )  of a molecular entity in which the electronic transition responsible for a given spectral band is approximately localized .
a low - molecular - weight ,  non - protein organic compound participating in enzymatic reactions as dissociable acceptor or donor of chemical groups or electrons .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of cysteine at the amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or thiol group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of cysteine by a heteroatom .
any c6 deoxy sugar having at least one hydroxy group replaced by hydrogen .
any sugar having a hydroxy group replaced with a hydrogen atom .
an azole that is either one of a pair of heterocyclic organic compounds comprising three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms arranged in a ring .
a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
any terpenoid derived from a diterpene .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
any member of the group of signalling molecules arising from oxidation of the three c20 essential fatty acids  ( efas )  icosapentaenoic acid  ( epa )  ,  arachidonic acid  ( aa )  and dihomo - gamma - linolenic acid  ( dgla )  .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid that is estra - 1 , 3 , 5 ( 10 )  - triene substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 3 and 17 .
vitamins like a ,  d ,  e and k that dissolve in fats and are stored in body tissues .
a hexonic acid that has been found to increase in red blood cells of galactosemic patients .
glucocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate a variety of physiological processes ,  in particular control of the concentration of glucose in blood .
the glucosyl group formed from d - glucopyranose .
a glycosyl group obtained by removing the hydroxy group from the hemiacetal function of a glucose and ,  by extension ,  of a lower oligosaccharide having glucose at the reducing end .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glutamate -  - ammonia ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .2 )  .
a dicarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the carboxy groups of glutaric acid .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of glycine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of glycine by a heteroatom .
any carbohydrate derivative that consists of glycan moieties covalently attached to the side chains of the amino acid residues that constitute the peptide .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
a glycosphingolipid is a glycolipid that is a carbohydrate - containing derivative of a sphingoid or ceramide .
an organic group obtained by removing the hydroxy group from the hemiacetal function of a monosaccharide or monosaccharide derivative and ,  by extension ,  of a lower oligosaccharide or oligosaccharide derivative .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
any organonitrogen compound containing a carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  group .
any non - proteinogenic amino acid carrying at least one halo group .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide is a peptide consisting only of amino - acid residues ,  but in which the linkages forming the ring are not solely peptide bonds ;  one or more is an isopeptide ,  disulfide ,  ester ,  or other bond .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of histidine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of histidine by a heteroatom .
a non - proteinogenic alpha - amino acid obtained by oxidative dimerisation of homocysteine and its derivatives .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
an imidazolidinone with oxo groups at position 2 and 4 .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
any fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a non - proteinogenic alpha - amino acid bearing one or more hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
any member of the class of 5beta - cholanic acids carrying at least one hydroxy group at unspecified position .
any carboxylic acid with at least one hydroxy group .
any compound comprising a butyric acid core carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
any compound containing an indole skeleton .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
an amino acid containing at least one iodo substituent .
an  iodoamino acid in which the amino acid specified is  thyronine .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
a 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid having either  ( 2r , 3r )  -  or  ( 2s , 3s )  - configuration .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
oxo carboxylic acids formally derived from aldonic acids by replacement of a secondary choh group by a carbonyl group .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of lactic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isobutyl group .
a diamino acid that is caproic  ( hexanoic )  acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 6 .
any prenylnaphthoquinone having a prenyl or polyprenyl group at position 3 and a methyl group at position 2 on the naphthoquinone ring .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
compounds containing a benzene skeleton substituted with one methoxy group .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the n - methylated 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid or l - glutamate units .
mineralocorticoids are a class of steroid hormones that regulate water and electrolyte metabolism .
a molecule all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
a group of neurotransmitters and neuromodulators that contain one amino group that is connected to an aromatic ring by ethylene group   (  - ch2 - ch2 -  )  .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
a polycyclic aromatic ketone metabolite of naphthalene .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
any glycosphingolipid containing unsubstituted glycosyl moieties .
a fatty acid anion 18:0 that is the conjugate base of octadecanoic acid  ( stearic acid )  .
a peptide containing a relatively small number of amino acids .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
an oxide in which the oxygen atom is bonded to a carbon atom .
compounds of the general formula so3hor where r is an organyl group
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an organophosphorus compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon - phosphorus bond ,  but the term is often extended to include esters and thioesters .
a solute used by a cell under water stress to maintain cell volume .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
any compound that has an aldehydic or ketonic group as well as a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule .
the conjugate base of any oxopentanoic acid .
a c5 fatty acid carrying an oxo group at any position .
any fatty acid anion containing at least one c - c unsaturated bond ;  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
a pyrrolidinemonocarboxylic acid consisting of proline bearing a single oxo substituent .
a quinone in which the two oxo groups of the quinone are located para to each other on the 6 - membered quinonoid ring .
an alditol obtained by reduction of any pentose .
a five - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldopentose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketopentose )  .
any peptide with hormonal activity in animals ,  whether endocrine ,  neuroendocrine ,  or paracrine .
any monocarboxylic acid that is phenylacetic acid or its substituted derivatives .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of alanine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of phenylalanine  by a heteroatom .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
a chemical ,  natural or artificial ,  that can affect the rate of growth of a plant .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
natural pigments containing a fundamental skeleton of four pyrrole nuclei united through the alpha - positions by four methine groups to form a macrocyclic structure .
any napthoquinone that is substituted at position 2 by a prenyl or polyprenyl group .
a quinone substituted by a polyprenyl - derived side - chain .
an alpha - amino acid that is pyrrolidine bearing a carboxy substituent at position 2 .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of proline at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of proline by a heteroatom .
naturally occurring compounds derived from the parent c20 acid ,  prostanoic acid .
the family of natural prostaglandins and prostaglandin - like compounds including prostacyclins and thromboxanes .
a tightly bound ,  specific nonpolypeptide unit in a protein determining and involved in its biological activity .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from purine .
a class of imidazopyrimidines that consists of purine and its substituted derivatives .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from pyrimidine .
an azole that includes only one n atom and no other heteroatom as a part of the aromatic skeleton .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from pyruvate  ( i .e .
a nitrogen molecular entity that is electronically neutral but which contains a quaternary nitrogen .
a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraenoic acid substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
oxygenated derivatives of 3 , 7 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - enyl ) nona - 1 , 3 , 5 , 7 - tetraene and derivatives thereof .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is biosynthesised from 3 - phosphoglycerate  ( i .e .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
any of the n - acylneuraminic acids and their esters and other derivatives of the alcoholic hydroxy groups .
sphingolipids are a complex family of compounds that share a common structural feature ,  a sphingoid base backbone .
any steroid that acts as hormone .
an ester of an alcohol and sulfuric acid .
salts and esters of sulfuric acid
any sulfur molecular entity that involves either covalently bonded or anionic sulfur .
a sulfur oxoacid that consists of two oxo and two hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central sulfur atom .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 - tetrahydropteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
a natural pigment containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
an alpha - amino acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon of glycine is substituted by a 1 - hydroxyethyl group .
any member of the class of benzenes that is a substituted benzene in which the substituents include one  ( and only one )  methyl group .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
an oxoacid containing three carboxy groups .
a chemical compound containing three hydroxy groups .
tryptamine and its substitution derivatives .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c or c#c bond .
an oxopurine that is the final oxidation product of purine metabolism .
an monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of urocanic acid .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated monocarboxylic acid that is prop - 2 - enoic acid substituted by a 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl group at position 3 .
a branched - chain amino acid that consists of glycine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - carbon is substituted by an isopropyl group .
vitamin d is a group of fat - soluble prohormones ,  which can be obtained from sun exposure ,  food and supplements .
any plant metabolite that is found naturally as a component of a volatile oil .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
a beta - amino - acid that is isobutyric acid in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by an amino group .
an n - acyl - amino acid that is a form of the water - soluble vitamin b9 .
an alpha - amino acid that is propanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl group at position 3 .
a pregnane - based steroidal hormone produced by the outer - section  ( zona glomerulosa )  of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland ,  and acts on the distal tubules and collecting ducts of the kidney to cause the conservation of sodium ,  secretion of potassium ,  increased water retention ,  and increased blood pressure .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of vanillylmandelic acid .
a cobalt group element atom that has atomic number 27 .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine bearing an indol - 3 - yl substituent at position 3 .
an aromatic amino acid that is alanine in which one of the methyl hydrogens is substituted by a phenyl group .
a histidine derivative that is histidine in which one of the hydrogens attached to the alpha - amino group has been replaced by a 4 - aminobutanoyl group .
a polydisperse ,  highly branched glucan composed of chains of d - glucopyranose residues in alpha ( 1 -  > 4 )  glycosidic linkage ,  joined together by alpha ( 1 -  > 6 )  glycosidic linkages .
an optically active form of asparagine having d - configuration .
an aldohexose that is the c - 4 epimer of glucose .
an alpha - amino acid that consists of butyric acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 and a carbamoyl substituent at position 4 .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - lactic acid .
a fat - soluble vitamin required for the synthesis of prothrombin and certain other blood coagulation factors .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
an androstanoid that is androst - 5 - ene substituted by a beta - hydroxy group at position 3 and an oxo group at position 17 .
the l - enantiomer of glucitol .
a primary amino compound that is the 5 - hydroxy derivative of tryptamine .
a linear polysaccharide in which the backbone consists of a variably sulfated repeating disaccharide unit .
a c18 straight - chain saturated fatty acid component of many animal and vegetable lipids .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
a member of the class of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinones that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone which is substituted at position 2 by a methyl group .
a straight - chain ,  fourteen - carbon ,  long - chain saturated fatty acid mostly found in milk fat .
a molecule composed of a glycosphingolipid  ( ceramide and oligosaccharide )  with one or more sialic acids linked on the sugar chain .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
a hydroxy seco - steroid that is  ( 5z , 7e )  - 9 , 10 - secocholesta - 5 , 7 , 10 ( 19 )  - triene in which the pro - s hydrogen at position 3 has been replaced by a hydroxy group .
any sugar having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
an alpha - amino acid that is glycine in which the alpha - is substituted by a 3 - guanidinopropyl group .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
an acyclic phosphorus acid anhydride obtained by condensation of two molecules of phosphoric acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of l - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of d - glutamic acid ,  having anionic carboxy groups and a cationic amino group
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of glutamate ( 1 -  )  .
an l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of the both the carboxy groups of l - glutamic acid .
an aspartate ( 1 -  )  that is the conjugate base of d - aspartic acid .
an aspartate ( 1 -  )  that is the  conjugate base of l - aspartic acid .
an aspartate ( 2 -  )  that is the conjugate base of  l - aspartate ( 1 -  )  .
an aspartate ( 2 -  )  that is the conjugate base of d - aspartate ( 1 -  )  .
a c4 - dicarboxylate that is the dianion obtained by the deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of aspartic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
an alkane that is propane substituted by a methyl group at position 2 .
a cobalt - corrinoid hexaamide that is cobalamin with the oxidation state of the central cobalt atom unspecified .
a heme is any tetrapyrrolic chelate of iron .
an gamma - amino acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
the amino acid zwitterion formed from thyroxine by transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of oxalic acid .
an iodothyronine compound having iodo substituents at the 3 -  ,  3' -  ,  5 -  and 5' - positions .
a tyrosine derivative where the phenolic hydrogen of tyrosine is substituted by 4 - hydroxyphenyl .
a d - glucosyl group obtained by removing the hydroxy group from the hemiacetal function of beta - d - glucose and ,  by extension ,  of a lower oligosaccharide having beta - d - glucose at the reducing end .
a monocarboxylic acid that is toluene in which one of the hydrogens of the methyl group has been replaced by a carboxy group .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
a short - chain saturated fatty acid comprising ethane attached to the carbon of a carboxy group .
a tricarboxylic acid that is propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - tricarboxylic acid bearing a hydroxy substituent at position 2 .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid that is butane in which one of the terminal methyl groups has been oxidised to a carboxy group .
a c6 ,  straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid in which the two carboxy groups are separated by a single methylene group .
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of myristic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid that is malonic acid in which one of the methylene hydrogens is substituted by a methyl group .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxylic acid groups of methylmalonic acid .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
an oxo dicarboxylic acid that consists of glutaric acid bearing an oxo substituent at position 2 .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from selective deprotonation of the 1 - carboxy group of 2 - oxoglutaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxylic acid groups of 3 - hydroxy - 3 - methylglutaric acid .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both the carboxy groups of glutaric acid .
any member of a group of hydroxy - 5beta - cholanic acids occuring in bile ,  where they are present as the sodium salts of their amides with glycine or taurine .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of valeric acid ;  present in ester form as component of many steroid - based pharmaceuticals .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of alanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of alanine .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of cysteine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an aromatic amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of phenylalanine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of phenylalanine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glycine ,  arising from protonation of the amino .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glycine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of lysine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of lysine ,  having two cationic amino groups and an anionic carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation obtained by protonation of both amino groups of lysine .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of leucine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of leucine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of methionine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a sulfur - containing amino - acid anion that is the conjugate acid of methionine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an optically active form of asparaginate having l - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of asparagine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of glutamine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of glutamine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tryptophan ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tryptophan ,  arising from protonation of the alpha - amino group .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of tyrosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of tyrosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid that is the 2 - keto derivative of propionic acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of serine .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of serine .
an optically active form of prolinate having l - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of proline ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of proline ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
a straight - chain alkane carrying 18 carbon atoms .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a 1 , 1 - diunsubstituted alkanesulfonate that is ethanesulfonate substituted by an amino group at position 2 .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of one of the phosphate oh groups in diphosphoric acid .
a trivalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of all three protons from diphosphoric acid .
a benzopyran consisting of a pyran ring having a benzene ring ortho - fused across positions 2 and 3 .
a biochemical role played by any micronutrient that is an organic compound .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a chromanol that is chroman - 6 - ol which is substituted at position 2 by a methyl group and  ( also at position 2 )  either a saturated or a triply - unsaturated hydrocarbon chain consisting of three isoprenoid units .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a substance administered to aid diagnosis of a disease .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
arylmethyl groups and derivatives formed by substitution: arcr2 -  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an organic derivative of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the sufonate group ( s )  of any organosulfonic acid .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
any member of class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
any compound containing an o - diphenol component .
4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) pyrocatechol  [ 4 -  ( 2 - aminoethyl ) benzene - 1 , 2 - diol ]  and derivatives formed by substitution .
a catecholamine in which the aminoethyl side - chain is hydroxy - substituted at c - 1 and methylated on nitrogen .
a catecholamine in which c - 1 of the aminoethyl side - chain is hydroxy - substituted .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
any carboxylic acid having a sulfur substituent .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a macromolecule formed by a living organism .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position beta to the carboxy group .
a non - proteinogenic amino - acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position gamma to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
any aldonic acid formed by oxidising the aldehyde group of an aldohexose to a carboxylic acid group .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
conjugated protein is a protein that contains a non - peptide component ,  usually in stoichiometric proportion .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
an amino acid whose structure includes an aromatic ring .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a derivative of the corrin nucleus ,  which contains four reduced or partly reduced pyrrole rings joined in a macrocycle by three =c -  groups and one direct carbon - carbon bond linking alpha positions .
a pentose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
any nutrient required in large quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
any aldopentose where the open - chain form has all the hydroxy groups on the same side in the fischer projection .
any deoxygalactose that is deoxygenated at the 6 - position .
a quaternary ammonium ion that is the the conjugate acid of carnitine .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of serotonin ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
conjugated proteins containing heme as the prosthetic group .
an oxo monocarboxylic acid anion in which the oxo group is located at the 2 - position .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c20 terpene .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
a substance which is structurally similar to a metabolite but which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amnio group of serine .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
neutral molecules having charge - separated forms with an onium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
any neutral molecule having charge - separated forms with a quaternary ammonium atom which bears no hydrogen atoms and that is not adjacent to the anionic atom .
a retinoate that is the conjugate base of all - trans - retinoic acid .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
the alpha - stereoisomer of 17 - hydroxy steroid .
a 17 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 17 has a beta - configuration .
any 11 - hydroxy steroid in which the hydroxy group at position 11 has beta -  configuration .
a sterol in which the hydroxy group at position 3 has beta -  configuration .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of aspartic acid .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a ketoaldonate that is the conjugate base of n - acetylneuraminic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
antidepressants are mood - stimulating drugs used primarily in the treatment of affective disorders and related conditions .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a loosely defined grouping of drugs that have effects on psychological function .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
compounds of structure rssr in which r and r' are organic groups .
an amino acid zwitterion that is the tautomer of cystine .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates beta - adrenergic receptors .
a drug that mimics the effects of stimulating postganglionic adrenergic sympathetic nerves .
a drug which lowers the blood glucose level .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
a heterobicyclic aromatic organic compound comprising a pyrimidine ring fused to an imidazole ring ;  the parent compound of the purines .
the 1h - tautomer of purine .
the 3h - tautomer of purine .
the 9h - tautomer of purine .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a food additive that is used to added improve the taste or odour of a food .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
an alpha - amino acid that is butyric acid bearing a single amino substituent located at position 2 .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
the zwitterion formed from 5 - aminolevulinic acid by transfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
any ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that inhibits hmg - coa reductases .
a substance used to treat hyperlipidemia  ( an excess of lipids in the blood )  .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
any dicarboxylic acid anion that is a monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of only one of the carboxy groups of the dicarboxylic acid .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos "foreign" ;  bios "life" )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
any member of the group of lipids containing a common glycerol backbone to which at least one fatty acid - derived group is attached .
any fatty acid containing a ring composed of carbon atoms .
any anion of a tricarboxylic acid  formed by deprotonation of at least one carboxy group .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
a tricarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of citric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of one of the three carboxy groups .
a tricarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of two of the three carboxy groups of citric acid .
any fatty acid in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents ;  a common component in animal and bacterial lipids .
a substance used to lower plasma cholesterol levels .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is acetic acid in which two of the methyl hydrogens are substituted by phenyl and hydroxyl groups .
any monocarboxylic acid which also contains a separate  ( alcoholic or phenolic )  hydroxy substituent .
any monocarboxylic acid having at least one additional oxo functional group .
any carboxylic acid anion containing at least one oxo group .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of glutaric acid .
any monocarboxylic acid having a 2 - oxo substituent .
a steroid ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with the 3 - hydroxy group of a sterol .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position delta to the carboxy group .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that has a hydroxy group beta to the carboxy group .
any  hydroxy monocarboxylic acid carrying at least two hydroxy groups .
any amino acid carrying two amino groups .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of virus diseases .
any monocarboxylic acid anion carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
a drug that stimulates contraction of the myometrium .
an amino acid chain that is produced de novo by ribosome - mediated translation of a genetically - encoded mrna ,  and any derivatives thereof .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
any dicarboxylic acid carrying one or more oxo groups .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxylic acid groups of 2 - hydroxyglutaric acid .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
a steroid acid that consists of cholane having a carboxy group in place of the methyl group at position 24 .
a 2 - oxo monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) pyruvic acid .
members of the class of cholanic acids based on a 5beta - cholane skeleton .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
a ganglioside in which the number of residues in the oligosaccharide chain is two .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
compounds consisting of two acyl groups bonded to the same oxygen atom acyl - o - acyl .
any of a class of steroid hormones that are produced in the adrenal cortex .
compounds based on a biladiene skeleton .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid in which the 3 - hydroxy substituent is in the  beta - position .
a hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 17 .
an oxo steroid carrying an oxo group at position 20 .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
an alpha - amino acid that is adipic acid bearing a single amino substituent at position 2 .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - hydroxybutyric acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organoiodine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - iodine bond .
a polysaccharide composed of glucose residues .
glycans composed of a single type of monosaccharide residue .
a branched - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of phytanic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
any of the group of polysaccharides composed of alternating units from uronic acids and glycosamines ,  and commonly partially esterified with sulfuric acid .
any of a class of 10 -  - 60 kda glycosaminoglycan sulfates ,  widely distributed in cartilage and other mammalian connective tissues .
a group of heterocyclic compounds based on the pteroic acid skeleton conjugated with one or more l - glutamic acid units .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
the l - enantiomer of glucopyranose .
a l - glucopyranose with a beta - configuration at the anomeric position .
an aldohexose that is the c - 2 epimer of glucose .
an organosulfonic acid containing one or more amino groups .
a straight chain alkane composed of 4 carbon atoms .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a plant growth regulator that modulates the formation of stems ,  leaves and flowers ,  as well as the development and ripening of fruit .
an agent that selectively binds to and activates adrenergic receptors .
any agent that acts on an adrenergic receptor or affects the life cycle of an adrenergic transmitter .
a compound composed of two or more pyrrole units .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
a drug that has a strengthening effect on the heart or that can increase cardiac output .
a ligand with two or more separate binding sites that can bind to a single metallic central atom ,  forming a chelate .
any of a class of heterocyclic amines having a saturated five - membered ring .
an alpha - amino acid that is butanoic acid substituted by an amino group at position 2 and a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a branched chain amino acid that consists of 3 - methylpentanoic acid bearing an amino substituent at position 2 .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
any drug used for its actions on cholinergic systems .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
a trianion containing at least one carboxy group .
agents that increase calcium influx into calcium channels of excitable tissues .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
substance which produces loss of feeling or sensation .
a polypeptide hormone produced and secreted by the pituitary gland comprising 39 amino acid residues coupled in a linear sequence .
an alkaloid containing an indole skeleton .
any alkylbenzene that is benzene substituted with one or more methyl groups .
a  monocyclic arene that is benzene substituted with one or more alkyl groups .
protein component on the surface of lipoprotein .
a complex in which one component  ( the host )  forms a cavity or ,  in the case of a crystal ,  a crystal lattice containing spaces in the shape of long tunnels or channels in which molecular entities of a second chemical species  ( the guest )  are located .
inclusion compound in which the guest molecule is in a cage formed by the host molecule or by a lattice of host molecules .
a class of lipoproteins of small size  ( 18 - 25 nm )  and low density  ( 1 .019 - 1 .063 g / ml )  particles with a core composed mainly of cholesterol esters and smaller amounts of triglycerides .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
a member of the class of oxopentanoates that is the conjugate base of 4 - oxopentanoic acid .
any chemical substance that inhibits the life - cycle of an organism .
any saturated fatty acid with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
a glucopyranose having d - configuration .
a straight - chain alkane with 10 carbon atoms .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is the 1 , 8 - dicarboxy derivative of octane .
a hexose that has d - configuration at position 5 .
a dihydroxyphenylacetic acid having the two hydroxy substituents located at the 3 -  and 4 - positions .
the l - enantiomer of threitol .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( r )  - configuration .
an optically active form of lactic acid having  ( s )  - configuration .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a primary aliphatic amine that is butane substituted by an amino group at position 1 .
a mucopolysaccharide consisting of repeating beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked l - iduronyl -  ( alpha1 -  > 3 )  - n - acetyl - d - galactosamine units .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from diphosphoric acid .
an oxopentanoic acid with the oxo group in the 4 - position .
any molecule that contains two amino - acid residues connected by peptide linkages .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
an organic anion obtained by removal of at least one proton from any uric acid .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of sarcosine ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of oxalic acid .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of sarcosine ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to very low density lipoproteins  ( vldl )  .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to low - density lipoproteins  ( ldl )  .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to high - density lipoproteins  ( hdl )  .
any ester resulting from the condensation of one or more of the hydroxy groups of glycerol  ( propane - 1 , 2 , 3 - triol )  with fatty acids .
any oxo steroid where an oxo substituent is located at position 3 .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
a chemical compound that can be excited by light of a specific wavelength and subsequently transfer energy to a chosen reactant .
any steroid substituted by at least one carboxy group .
a 3 - oxo steroid conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a tetritol that is butane substituted by hydroxy groups at positions 1 ,  2 ,  3 and 4 .
the d - enantiomer of threitol .
compounds of structure rssr' .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  acceptor .
self - ionizing solvent possessing both characteristics of bronsted acids and bases .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
any of the drugs that act on beta - adrenergic receptors .
a drug used for its effects on dopamine receptors ,  on the life cycle of dopamine ,  or on the survival of dopaminergic neurons .
a role played by a substance that can react readily with ,  and thereby eliminate ,  radicals .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
any drug that binds to but does not activate cholinergic receptors ,  thereby blocking the actions of acetylcholine or cholinergic agonists .
any l - alpha - amino acid carrying an n - acyl substituent .
a branched ,  short - chain ,  saturated fatty acid anion ;  the conjugate base of isobutyric acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of 4 - hydroxyphenylacetic acid .
a beta - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of 3 - aminoisobutyric acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a drug used to treat asthma .
a chemical substance that prevents or reduces the probability of conception .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
an agent that binds to and activates excitatory amino acid receptors .
any hormone that is responsible for controlling sexual characteristics and reproductive function .
a sex hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of masculine characteristics in vertebrates by binding to androgen receptors .
a hormone that stimulates or controls the development and maintenance of female sex characteristics in mammals by binding to oestrogen receptors .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from a steroid acid .
a drug that softens ,  separates ,  and causes desquamation of the cornified epithelium or horny layer of skin .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
a retinoid consisting of 3 , 7 - dimethylnona - 2 , 4 , 6 , 8 - tetraen - 1 - ol substituted at position 9 by a 2 , 6 , 6 - trimethylcyclohex - 1 - en - 1 - yl group  ( geometry of the four exocyclic double bonds is not specified )  .
drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
any dicarboxylic acid carrying a hydroxy group on the carbon atom at position alpha to the carboxy group .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
any steroid based on a cholestane skeleton and its derivatives .
any steroid based on an  androstane skeleton and its derivatives .
cholesterol esters and free cholesterol which are contained in or bound to lipoproteins .
an agent that produces a soft formed stool ,  and relaxes and loosens the bowels ,  typically used over a protracted period ,  to relieve constipation .
substance that sweeten food ,  beverages ,  medications ,  etc .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
an agent that inhibits bone resorption and / or favor bone mineralization and bone regeneration .
a substance used either in the prevention or facilitation of pregnancy .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
the zwitterion formed from taurine by transfer of a proton from the sulfonyl to the amino group .
a compound that interacts with progesterone receptors in target tissues to bring about effects similar to those of progesterone .
a drug used to treat psoriasis .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a drug used to treat allergic reactions .
a natural or synthetic analogue of the hormones secreted by the adrenal gland .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
systems consisting of two or more molecular entities held together by non - covalent interactions .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a chemical substance which binds to specific hormone receptors activating the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with the amino group of an amino acid .
any aromatic ether that consists of a benzene skeleton substituted with one or more methoxy groups .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated aldehyde of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - ch=o in which the aldehydic c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
an aldehyde of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - ch=o or rc#c - ch=o in which the aldehydic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
a  chemical role played by the molecular entity or part thereof in a photochemical process .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
a chemical substance that encourages a cell to commence cell division ,  triggering mitosis .
a compound with the general formula r2c=o  ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group .
an oxyketone with the general formula r2c ( =o )   ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group and the oxy and carbonyl groups are bonded to the same carbon atom .
an ec 3 .2 .*  ( glycosylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any glycosidase  ( i .e .
an antiviral drug targeted at influenza viruses .
an organic group that consists of a closed ring .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
a halophenol in which the halogen atom is bonded to the carbon atom adjacent to the c - oh group .
the amino acid zwitterion formed from 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine by tranfer of a proton from the carboxy group to the amino group .
a polymer carrying multiple negative charges .
a macromolecule containing ionic groups .
a monocarboxylic acid that is the 3 - o - methyl ether of  ( 3 , 4 - dihydroxyphenyl ) acetic acid .
an amino disaccharide consisting of d - galactopyranose at the non - reducing end joined by a  ( 1 -  > 3 )  glycosidic linkage to n - acetyl - d - galactopyranosamine .
a ten - membered synthetic oligopeptide comprising pyroglutamyl ,  histidyl ,  tryptophyl ,  seryl ,  tyrosyl ,  glycyl ,  leucyl ,  arginyl ,  prolyl and glycinamide residues joined in sequence .
an imidazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of glycine .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of sarcosine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of carnosine .
a fatty acid anion with a chain length of c13 to c22 .
the conjugate base of 5 - oxoproline .
zwitterionic form of gamma - amino - beta - hydroxybutyric acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
anionic form of chondroitin d - glucuronate arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid groups of the repeating units ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a carboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any n - acylglycine .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - proline in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an  ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of tryptamine arising from protonation of the primary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of creatine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the guanidino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of 5 - oxo - d - proline ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
zwitterionic form of beta - alanine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of the two carboxy groups of bilirubin ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate acid of a primary aliphatic amine .
zwitterionic form of l - asparagine arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion where the hydroxy group is placed at position 2  ( alpha to the carboxy group )  and has  ( s )  - stereochemistry ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
conjugate base of porphobilinogen arising from deprotonation of the two carboxy groups and protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
dizwitterionic form of homocystine arising from transfer of two protons from the carboxy to the amino groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphate oxoanion that is the conjugate base of o - phosphoethanolamine arising from deprotonation of the phosphate oh groups and protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a hydroxy monocarboxylic acid anion where the hydroxy group is placed at position 2  ( alpha to the carboxy group )  and has  ( r )  - stereochemistry ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an l - alpha - amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of trans - 4 - hydroxy - l - proline ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of trimethylamine ,  obtained via protonation of the nitrogen ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
conjugate base of 5 - oxo - l - proline .
the amino acid zwitterion formed from 4 - hydroxy - l - proline .
the conjugate base of dermatan sulfate ,  obtained by deprotonation of carboxy and sulfate groups .
an organic phosphoric acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
any fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
any saturated fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
an organic anion of general formula rs ( =o ) 2o (  -  )  where r is an organyl group .
any substance that stimulates an immune response in the body ,  such as through antibody production or by presentation to a t - cell receptor after binding to a major histocompability complex  ( mhc )  .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
any substance capable of eliciting an immune response only when attached to a large carrier such as a protein .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
an amino trisaccharide that is the carbohydrate portion of ganglioside gm3 .
any fatty acid containing anywhere in its structure a ring of atoms .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of a acyclic tetrapyrrole compound .
an amino oligosaccharide that is a trisaccharide having one or more substituted or unsubstituted amino groups in place of hydroxy groups at unspecified positions .
an insulin that is produced in the pancreas and involved in regulating the metabolism of carbohydrates  ( particularly glucose )  and fats .
a prostanoid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any prostaglandin .
any fatty acid with a chain length of between c6 and c12 .
a fatty acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety of a medium - chain fatty acid .
an  organic anion that is the conjugate base of diamino acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one aldehydic or ketonic group in addition to the carboxylic acid group .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
a synthetic progestogen .
the conjugate base of any hydroxy fatty acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
a fatty acid anion carrying one or more oxo substituents
any fatty acid with a hydroxy functional group in the beta -  or 3 - position .
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
the conjugate base of an n - acyl - d - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of gamma - aminobutyric acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of dopamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a polymer is a mixture ,  which is composed of macromolecules of different kinds and which may be differentiated by composition ,  length ,  degree of branching etc . .
the zwitterion formed from l - proline by proton transfer from the carboxy group to the ring nitrogen .
a carbohydrate acid derivative anion obtained from dermatan by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid groups of the repeating units ;  the major species at ph 7 .3 .
a carbohydrate acid derivative anion that is the conjugate base of alpha - n - acetylneuraminosyl -  ( 2 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucosylceramide arising from deprotonation of the neuraminosyl carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a sialic acid anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group of an n - acylneuraminic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ionic polymer is a polymer ,  composed of ionic macromolecules .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
the anion resulting from the removal of the proton from the carboxylic acid group of 3 , 3' , 5 - triiodo - l - thyronine .
any hormone produced by the thyroid gland
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
molybdenum cofactor moco protonated to ph 7 .3 .
the conjugate base of prostaglandin e2 ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of n - benzoylglycine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
a sulfated glycosaminoglycan ,  a linear polymer that consists of the repeating disaccharide   [ 3 )  - beta - gal -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - glcnac -  ( 1 -  >  ]  and containing sulfo groups located at random positions .
a linear trisaccharide comprising d - glucose  ( at the reducing end )  having an alpha - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - galactosyl moiety at the 4 - position .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .98 )  .
a steroid that has a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton .
a dicarboxylate that contains four carbon atoms .
any hydroxy carboxylic acid which contains a hydroxy group located beta -  to the carboxylic acid group .
any glycosphingolipid where the oligosaccharide component has an n - acetylgalactosaminyl residue at the non - reducing end .
a dihydroxy monocarboxylic acid consisting of phenylacetic acid having two phenolic hydroxy substituents .
a polymer ,  composed of polyanion macromolecules .
an anion resulting from the removal of a proton from an organic sulfamic acid group .
any organic molecular entity derived from a fatty acid .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
an alkanesulfonate in which the carbon at position 1 is attached to at least two hydrogens .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
any branched - chain fatty acid containing methyl branches only .
the dicarboxylic acid dianion formed from folic acid by loss of a proton from each of the two carboxy groups in the glutamic acid moiety .
any organophosphate oxoanion that is a negatively charged phospholipid ,  e .g .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of tyrosine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  any substitution of phenyl hydrogens ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of tyrosine by a heteroatom .
any additive that enhances the efficiency of fuel .
any compound that is able to prevent damage to the liver .
the carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of an icosanoid ,  formed when the carboxy group is deprotonated .
an icosanoid anion that is the conjugate base of a prostanoid .
a carboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of a sialic acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
the alpha - amino - acid anion formed by loss of a proton from the carboxy group of 4 - hydroxyproline .
the l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of 4 - hydroxy - l - proline ,  formed by proton loss from the carboxy group .
the chemical role played by a substance that stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability .
a beta - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of beta - alanine .
the amino acid zwitterion formed from 4 - hydroxyproline .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a disaccharide .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a monosaccharide .
a monosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a ketoaldonic acid .
a retintinyl ester in which all double bonds of the retinyl side - chain have trans - configuration .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a carbohydrate acid .
a sulfur - containing amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
a branched - chain amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
an iodothyronine whose alpha carboxylic acid group of the tyrosine is ionized  ( not protonated )  .
any drug which binds to gonadotropin - releasing hormone receptors and triggers a response .
an aralylamino compound which contains one amino group connected to an aromatic ring by a two - carbon chain .
a carboxylic acid anion resulting from the deprotonation of the carboxy group of a carbohydrate acid derivative .
a carbohydrate acid derivative anion that is formally obtained from a ketoaldonate .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from an oligosaccharide .
an oligosaccharide derivative that is formally obtained from a trisaccharide .
any compound that can be used for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a retinoid x receptor .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
an organic amino compound in which an aminoalkyl group is linked to an arene .
an n - acylglycine in which the acyl group is specified as hexanoyl .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of tryptophan ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of methionine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 2 .1 .2 .*  ( hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine hydroxymethyltransferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .1 )  .
an excitatory amino acid agonist which binds to nmda receptors and triggers a response .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
a toxin that accumulates in patients with chronic kidney disease .
any glycine transporter inhibitor that interferes with the action of glycine 1 transporters .
an agonist that binds to and activates glycine receptors
a steroid compound with a structure based on a 21 - carbon  ( pregnane )  skeleton that acts as a hormone .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
a group that carries an overall negative charge .
an anionic group that contains carbon .
the role played by a substance in enhancing the appearance or odour of the human body ;  a name given to the substance itself or to a component of it .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
a clathrate complex consisting of a lipid enwrapped in a protein host without covalent binding in such a way that the complex has a hydrophilic outer surface consisting of all the protein and the polar ends of any phospholipids .
any compound that has anti - asthmatic effects .
a carbohydrate derivative that is any derivative of a polysaccharide .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
an ammonium ion derivative resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amino compound .
any dicarboxylic acid that contains four carbon atoms .
an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of carnosine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any n - alkylglycine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an amino acid zwitterion arising from transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of alanine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an alpha - amino acid anion that is the conjugate base of citrulline ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of creatine ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
any glycine derivative in which glycine is substituted at position 2 by an alkyl group .
a carboxylic acid anion which is a conjugate base of  a histidine derivative  having either d -  or l - configuration .
an n - acyl - l - alpha - amino acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any folic acid .
any branched - chain fatty acid anion containing methyl branches only .
a folate obtained by deprotonation of any tetrahydrofolic acid .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a molecule that can substitute for a normal nucleobase in nucleic acids .
an inhibitor that interferes with the process of gap junctional intercellular communication .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a retinoic acid receptor .
an antogonist that interferes with the action of activator protein 1  ( ap - 1 )  .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
alpha - d - galp -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - galp -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - d - glcp with beta - configuration at the reducing end anomeric centre .
an alpha , omega - dicarboxylic acid that is glutaric acid substituted at position 3 by a methyl group .
an n - alkylpyrrolidine that consists of n - methylpyrrolidinone bearing a pyridin - 3 - yl substituent at position c - 5  ( the 5s - enantiomer )  .
a hormone agonist that binds to and activates progesterone receptors .
a methylhistidine in which the methyl group is located at n - 1 .
a methylhistidine in which the methyl group is located at n - 3 .
an n - acylglycine in which the acyl group is specified as isobutryl .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
an amino - acid anion in which the amino group is situated gamma -  to the carboxylate group .
a carbohydrate acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any aldonic acid .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
a drug used in treating and healing of wounds .
a mancude heterobicyclic organic group consisting of a benzene ring fused to a pyrrole ring .
a bicyclic organic group that contains both carbon and hetero atoms .
a vitamin d that is calciol or its hydroxylated metabolites calcidiol and calcitriol .
a dicarboxylic acid obtained by substitution of one of the methylene hydrogens of malonic acid by an ethyl group .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a five - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
a pyrrolidinone in which the oxo group is at position 2 of the pyrrolidine ring .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - asparagine in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
an imidazolidinone that is imidazolin - 2 - one substituted at positions 4 and 5 by hydroxy and ureido groups respectively .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
any substance that accelerates defecation .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - n bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a ligase  ( ec 6 .* .* .* )  .
a ligase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a c - c bond - forming ligase  ( ec 6 .4 .* .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
a role played by any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of suberic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a gas in an atmosphere that absorbs and emits radiation within the thermal infrared range ,  so contributing to the 'greenhouse effect' .
a compressed gas or liquid with a boiling point lower than room temperature which to used to propel and dispense liquids such as deodorants ,  insecticides ,  paints ,  etc .
a glycerol compound having one of three possible substituent groups  -  either acyl ,  alkyl ,  or alk - 1 - enyl  -  at each of the three possible positions sn - 1 ,  sn - 2 or sn - 3 .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any omega - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of transferase of a one - carbon - containing group  ( ec 2 .1 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - oh group of donors  ( ec 1 .1 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any glycosylase  ( ec 3 .2 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 6 .3 .*  ( c - n bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any acid - ammonia  ( or amine )  ligase  ( ec 6 .3 .1 .
an ec 6 .4 .*  ( c - c bond - forming ligase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylating enzyme  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .
an ec 1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group )  inhibitor that uses nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .
an ec 2 .1 .*  ( c1 - transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydroxymethyl -  ,  formyl -  and related transferase  ( ec 2 .1 .2 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 , 3 - saturated fatty acid .
any fatty acid in which the first two carbons of the chain attached to the carboxy group are saturated and unbranched .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in the mould ,  aspergillus .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
an ec 1 .1 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - oh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of prostaglandin - e2 9 - reductase  ( ec 1 .1 .1 .189 )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any dicarboxylic acid monoamide ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a compound that is used to keep a substance moist .
a humectant that is used as a food additive to prevent foodstuffs from drying out .
a food additive that is a  ( generally inert )  gas which is used to envelop foodstuffs during packing and so protect them from unwanted chemical reactions such as food spoilage or oxidation during subsequent transport and storage .
a propellant that is used to expel foods from an aerosol container .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 3 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 4 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 6 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 14 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 16 carbons .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 18 carbons .
a physiological role played by any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
a 2 - hydroxy monocarboxylic acid that is propanoic acid in which one of the alpha - hydrogens is replaced by a hydroxy group .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of carboxylesterase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .1  )  .
any pyrimidine that bears one or more carboxylic acid substituents .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
a chromanol that is chromane in which the hydrogen at position 6 is replaced by a hydroxy group .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
an animal metabolite produced by any member of the phylum nematoda .
a nematode metabolite produced by caenorhabditis elegans .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
a hydroxy fatty acid that is a straight - chain fatty acid in which one of the hydrogens attached to the carbon adjacent to the terminal methyl group  ( i .e .
a long - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of hexadecanoic acid  ( palmitic acid )  ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon of the carboxy group is directly attached to a c=c or c#c bond .
an organic anionic group derived from molybdenum cofactor ( 3 -  )  .
a sialodiaosylceramide consisting of the trisaccharide alpha - n - acetylneuraminyl -  ( 2 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucose attached to the primary hydroxy function of a ceramide with undefined sphingoid base .
an anionic ganglioside that is the conjugate base of alpha - n - acetylneuraminyl -  ( 2 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucosyl -  ( 1 <  -  > 1 )  - ceramide arising from deprotonation of the neuraminosyl carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any carbohydrate acid derivative anion obtained by deprotonation of at least one of the neuraminosyl carboxy groups of a ganglioside .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
an elemental molecular entity in which all of the atoms have atomic number 26 .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia galeata .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
any alkane having a chain length of at least 13 carbon atoms .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any derivative of a non - proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group or carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any l - alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 - saturated fatty acid .
a methyl - branched fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 3 - methyl fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - glutamic acid at the amino group or either of the carboxy groups ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - glutamic acid by a heteroatom .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human urine samples .
a sialodiaosylceramide that is an alpha - n - acetylneuraminosyl -  ( 2 -  > 3 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucosyl - n - acylsphingosine in which the acyl group on nitrogen is  ( 15z )  - tetracos - 15 - enoyl .
a glycotetraosylceramide in which a linear beta - d - galnac -  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - alpha - d - gal -  ( 1 -  >  - 4 )  - beta - d - gal -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glc tetrasaccharide unit is linked glycosidically to a  ( 3r , 4e )  - 3 - hydroxy - 2 -  ( pentacosanoylamino ) octadec - 4 - en - 1 - yl ceramide group .
a non - proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of d - proline at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of d - proline by a heteroatom .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - proline at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - proline  by a heteroatom .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 3 - hydroxy fatty acid .
a hydroxy fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any  ( omega - 1 )  - hydroxy fatty acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a glycotriaosylceramide having alpha - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucosyl as the glycotriaosyl component attached to the cer ( d18:1 / 18:0 )  .
any member of the class of  indoles carrying at least one hydroxy group .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
a dicarboxylic acid dianion that is the conjugate base of 2 - aminoadipic acid .
a carbocyclic fatty acid composed of heptanoic acid having a  ( 1s , 2s )  - 2 - octylcyclopentyl substituent at position 7 .
any cosmetic used to lighten the colour of skin by reducing the concentration of melanin .
any metabolite  ( endogenous or exogenous )  found in human blood serum samples .
any substance that inhibits the action of glycine transporters .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
a hydroxy - amino acid in which the amino acid specified is proline .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the  conjugate base of alpha - aminobutyric acid .
an anionic ganglioside in which the oligosaccharide portion is composed of a disaccharide ,  to which one sialic acid residue is attached .
a glycotetraosylceramide having n - acetyl - beta - d - galactosaminyl -  ( 1 -  > 3 )  - alpha - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - galactosyl -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - beta - d - glucosyl  component attached to the primary hydroxy function of a ceramide with undefined sphingoid base .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - methylsuccinic acid
an ec 6 .4 .1 .*  ( carboxylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of pyruvate carboxylase  ( ec 6 .4 .1 .1 )  .
a nuclear receptor modulator that affects the retinoic acid receptor
any receptor modulator acting on nuclear receptors
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
any peptide zwitterion comprising two amino acid residues .
a dicarboxylic acid that is butanedioic acid substituted at position 2 by a methyl group .
a 2 - methylbutanedioic acid in which the methyl group at position 2 has s - configuration .
a 2 - methylbutanedioic acid in which the methyl group at position 2 has r - configuration .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
a cell that is found in a natural setting ,  which includes multicellular organism cells 'in vivo'  ( i .e .
male germ cell is a germ cell that supports male gamete production .
a male germ cell that develops from spermatogonia .
a male germ cell that develops from the haploid secondary spermatocytes .
a mature male germ cell that develops from a spermatid .
an euploid male germ cell of an early stage of spermatogenesis .
a cell that will develop into a neuron often after a migration phase .
a relatively undifferentiated cell that retains the ability to divide and proliferate throughout life to provide progenitor cells that can differentiate into specialized cells .
a stem cell from which all cells of the lymphoid and myeloid lineages develop ,  including blood cells and cells of the immune system .
a progenitor cell committed to the erythroid lineage .
a cell that is within the developmental lineage of gametes and is able to pass along its genetic material to offspring .
a myeloid progenitor cell committed to the monocyte lineage .
a stem cell that can give rise to multiple lineages of cells .
a progenitor cell committed to myeloid lineage ,  including the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a progenitor cell committed to the megakaryocyte and erythroid lineages .
a oligopotent progenitor cell committed to the lymphoid lineage .
a precursor cell with a limited number of potential fates .
a cell that is commited to differentiating into a muscle cell .
a connective tissue cell which secretes an extracellular matrix rich in collagen and other macromolecules .
a cell that is usually found in a two - dimensional sheet with a free surface .
a cell found predominately in the blood .
an epithelial cell of the pancreas .
a type of lymphocyte whose defining characteristic is the expression of a t cell receptor complex .
a leukocyte with abundant granules in the cytoplasm .
a cell that is found in almost all tissues containing numerous basophilic granules and capable of releasing large amounts of histamine and heparin upon activation .
an efferent neuron that passes from the central nervous system or a ganglion toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes or inhibits movement .
a neruon whose cell body is within an autonomic ganglion .
a neuron that is part of nerve found outside the central nervous system .
the output neuron of the cerebellar cortex .
a non - neuronal cell of the nervous system .
a neuroglial cell of ectodermal origin ,  i .e . ,  the astrocytes and oligodendrocytes considered together .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system  -  the largest and most numerous neuroglial cells in the brain and spinal cord .
a class of large neuroglial  ( macroglial )  cells in the central nervous system .
a central nervous system macrophage found in the parenchyma of the central nervous system .
ectoderm destined to be nervous tissue .
a connective tissue cell that normally gives rise to other cells that are organized as three - dimensional masses .
a cell capable of processing and presenting lipid and protein antigens to t cells in order to initiate an immune response .
a specialized epithelial cell that is capable of synthesizing and secreting certain biomolecules .
a cell that specializes in controlled release of one or more substances .
a cell of an endocrine gland ,  ductless glands that secrete substances which are released directly into the circulation and which influence metabolism and other body functions .
an endocrine cell that is located in the epithelium of the gastrointestinal tract or in the pancreas .
a cell that secretes insulin and is located towards the center of the islets of langerhans .
a leydig cell is a testosterone - secreting cell in the interstitial area ,  between the seminiferous tubules ,  in the testis .
the main structural component of the liver .
a cell whose primary function is to shorten .
a mature contractile cell ,  commonly known as a myocyte .
a somatic cell located in skeletal muscle .
a cell whose function is determined by the generation or the reception of an electric signal .
a cell that moves by its own activities .
a cell of the outer of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell of the middle germ layer of the embryo .
a cell of the inner of the three germ layers of the embryo .
a cell that lacks a nucleus .
a cell with a single nucleus .
a cell with more than one nucleus .
a red blood cell .in mammals ,  mature erythrocytes are biconcave disks containing hemoglobin whose function is to transport oxygen .
a non - nucleated disk - shaped cell formed by extrusion from megakaryocytes ,  found in the blood of all mammals ,  and mainly involved in blood coagulation .
any cell capable of ingesting particulate matter via phagocytosis .
a mononuclear phagocyte present in variety of tissues ,  typically differentiated from monocytes ,  capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the phenotype cd19 - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  and capable of b cell mediated immunity .
a mature sexual reproductive cell having a single set of unpaired chromosomes .
a cell that is specialised to accumulate a particular substance ( s )  .
a cell derived from the specialized ectoderm flanking each side of the embryonic neural plate ,  which after the closure of the neural tube ,  forms masses of cells that migrate out from the dorsal aspect of the neural tube to spread throughout the body .
an early neural cell developing from the early ependymal cell of the neural tube .
a multifate stem cell found in skeletal muscle than can differentiate into many different cell types ,  including muscle .
a cell whose function is determined by its response to an electric signal .
a cell that initiates an electrical signal and passes that signal to another cell .
a cell whose nucleus ,  or nuclei ,  each contain more than two haploid genomes .
a cell whose nucleus contains a single haploid genome .
a cell type that secretes 5 - hydroxytryptamine  ( serotonin )  .
a cell whose primary function is to protect the organism .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that cooperates with other lymphocytes via direct contact or cytokine release to initiate a variety of immune functions .
a myoblast that differentiates into skeletal muscle fibers .
a neuron which sends impulses peripherally to activate muscles or secretory cells .
the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue .
a lymphocyte is a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
an immature ,  nucleated erythrocyte occupying the stage of erythropoeisis that follows formation of erythroid progenitor cells .
a nucleated immature erythrocyte ,  having cytoplasm generally similar to that of the earlier proerythroblast but sometimes even more basophilic ,  and usually regular in outline .
a nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte in which the nucleus occupies a relatively smaller part of the cell than in its precursor ,  the basophilic erythroblast .
the final stage of the nucleated ,  immature erythrocyte ,  before nuclear loss .
the earliest cytologically identifiable precursor in the thrombocytic series .
a giant cell 50 to 100 micron in diameter ,  with a greatly lobulated nucleus ,  found in the bone marrow ;  mature blood platelets are released from its cytoplasm .
a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is committed to the granulocyte and monocyte lineages .
an immature erythrocyte that changes the protein composition of its plasma membrane by exosome formation and extrusion .
a precursor in the monocytic series ,  being a cell intermediate in development between the monoblast and monocyte .
a mesenchymal stem cell capable of developing into blood vessel endothelium .
myeloid mononuclear recirculating leukocyte that can act as a precursor of tissue macrophages ,  osteoclasts and some populations of tissue dendritic cells .
the reproductive cell in multicellular organisms .
a lymphocyte that can spontaneously kill a variety of target cells without prior antigenic activation via germline encoded activation receptors and also regulate immune responses via cytokine release and direct contact with other cells .
a mature alpha - beta t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd4 coreceptor .
a t cell expressing an alpha - beta t cell receptor and the cd8 coreceptor .
a diploid cell that has derived from a spermatogonium and can subsequently begin meiosis and divide into two haploid secondary spermatocytes .
one of the two haploid cells into which a primary spermatocyte divides ,  and which in turn gives origin to spermatids .
a non - terminally differentiated cell that is capable of developing into a muscle cell .
a stem cell that can give rise to cell types of the body other than those of the germ - line .
muscle cell which has as its direct parts myofilaments organized into sarcomeres .
an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  mast cell ,  megakaryocyte ,  or erythroid lineage .
a immature or mature cell in the lineage leading to and including erythrocytes .
a nucleated precursor of an erythrocyte that lacks hematopoietic lineage markers .
a cell of the monocyte ,  granulocyte ,  or mast cell lineage .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has an irregularly shaped ,  pale - staining nucleus that is partially constricted into two lobes ,  and with cytoplasm that contains coarse ,  bluish - black granules of variable size .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte with a nucleus that usually has two lobes connected by one or more slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing coarse ,  round granules that are uniform in size and which can be stained by the dye eosin .
any of the immature or mature forms of a granular leukocyte that in its mature form has a nucleus with three to five lobes connected by slender threads of chromatin ,  and cytoplasm containing fine inconspicuous granules and stainable by neutral dyes .
a b cell that is mature ,  having left the bone marrow .
a memory b cell is a mature b cell that is long - lived ,  readily activated upon re - encounter of its antigenic determinant ,  and has been selected for expression of higher affinity immunoglobulin .
a naive b cell is a mature b cell that has the phenotype surface igd - positive ,  surface igm - positive ,  cd20 - positive ,  cd27 - negative and that has not yet been activated by antigen in the periphery .
a t cell that expresses an alpha - beta t cell receptor complex .
an alpha - beta t cell that has an immature phenotype and has not completed t cell selection .
a alpha - beta t cell that has a mature phenotype .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd25 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
a t cell that expresses a gamma - delta t cell receptor complex .
a gamma - delta t cell that has an immature phenotype .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - positive ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - positive .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive and expressing the t cell receptor beta - chain in complex with the pre - t cell receptor alpha chain .
a thymocyte that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  and pre - tcr - positive .
a thymocyte expressing the alpha - beta t cell receptor complex as well as both the cd4 and cd8 coreceptors .
an immature alpha - beta t cell that is located in the thymus and is cd4 - positive and cd8 - negative .
an immature alpha - beta t cell that is located in the thymus and is cd8 - positive and cd4 - negative .
a long - lived ,  antigen - experienced t cell that has acquired a memory phenotype including distinct surface markers and the ability to differentiate into an effector t cell upon antigen reexposure .
a t cell which regulates overall immune responses as well as the responses of other t cell subsets through direct cell - cell contact and cytokine release .
an immature b cell is a b cell that has the phenotype surface igm - positive and surface igd - negative ,  and have not undergone class immunoglobulin class switching or peripheral encounter with antigen and activation .
a precursor b cell is a b cell with the phenotype cd10 - positive .
an immature b cell of an intermediate stage between the pre - b cell stage and the mature naive stage with the phenotype surface igm - positive and cd19 - positive ,  and are subject to the process of b cell selection .
a lymphoid progenitor cell that is committed to the natural killer cell lineage ,  expressing cd122  ( il - 15 )  receptor ,  but lacking many of the phenotypic characteristics of later stages of natural killer cell development such as expression of nk activating and inhibitory molecules .
a progenitor cell of the b cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific activity such as early stages of recombination of b cell receptor genes ,  but not yet fully committed to the b cell lineage until the expression of pax5 occurs .
a lymphoid progenitor cell of the t cell lineage ,  with some lineage specific marker expression ,  but not yet fully committed to the t cell lineage .
a progenitor cell of the mast cell lineage .
the most primitive precursor in the granulocytic series ,  having fine ,  evenly distributed chromatin ,  several nucleoli ,  a high nuclear - to - cytoplasmic ration  ( 5:1 - 7:1 )  ,  and a nongranular basophilic cytoplasm .
a hematopoietic multipotent progenitor cell is multipotent ,  but not capable of long - term self - renewal .
a progenitor cell restricted to the lymphoid lineage .
a progenitor cell restricted to the myeloid lineage .
a leukocyte with a single non - segmented nucleus in the mature form .
a mature b cell that is located in the marginal zone of the spleen with the phenotype cd23 - negative and cd21 - positive and expressing a b cell receptor usually reactive to bacterial cell wall components or senescent self components such as oxidized - ldl .
a macrophage constitutively resident in a particular tissue under non - inflammatory conditions ,  and capable of phagocytosing a variety of extracellular particulate material ,  including immune complexes ,  microorganisms ,  and dead cells .
a tissue - resident macrophage found in the central nervous system .
a type of cell containing lipids in small vacuoles and typically seen in atherolosclerotic lesions ,  as well as other conditions .
an immature t cell located in the thymus .
a pro - t cell that has the phenotype cd4 - negative ,  cd8 - negative ,  cd44 - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
an antigen inexperienced cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive and cd62l - positive .
a recently activated cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  and cd25 - positive .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has differentiated into a memory t cell .
mature t cell not yet exposed to antigen with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd45ra - positive ,  and cd127 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has not experienced activation via antigen contact and has the phenotype cd45ra - positive ,  ccr7 - positive and cd127 - positive .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype cd69 - positive ,  cd62l - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  cd25 - positive ,  and ccr7 - negative .
cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - positive ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell that has differentiated into a memory t cell .
a differentiated t cell with ability to traffic to peripheral tissues and is capable of mounting a specific immune response .
a effector t cell that provides help in the form of secreted cytokines to other immune cells .
cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta memory t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd127 - positive ,  cd45ra - negative ,  cd45ro - positive ,  and cd25 - negative .
a lymphocyte of b lineage with the commitment to express an immunoglobulin complex .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is devoted to secreting large amounts of immunoglobulin .
a small pre - b - ii cell is a pre - b - ii cell that is rag1 - positive ,  rag2 - positive ,  pre - bcr - negative ,  and bcr - negative ,  is not proliferating ,  and carries a dna rearrangement of one or more immunoglobulin light chain genes .
a pre - b - ii cell is a precursor b cell that expresses immunoglobulin mu heavy chain  ( ighmu +  )  ,  and lack expression of cd34 ,  tdt ,  immunoglobulin kappa light chain and immunoglobulin lambda light chain .
an unswitched memory b cell is a memory b cell that has the phenotype igm - positive ,  igd - positive ,  cd27 - positive ,  cd138 - negative ,  igg - negative ,  ige - negative ,  and iga - negative .
a class switched memory b cell is a memory b cell that has undergone ig class switching and therefore is igm - negative on the cell surface .
an activated mature  ( naive or memory )  b cell that is secreting immunoglobulin ,  typified by being cd27 - positive ,  cd38 - positive ,  cd138 - negative .
a cell of a hematopoietic lineage .
a connective tissue cell found in bone .
a cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd45ra - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with the phenotype ccr7 - negative ,  cd45ra - positive .
a hematopoietic oligopotent progenitor cell that has the ability to differentiate into limited cell types but lacks lineage cell markers and self renewal capabilities .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha beta memory t cell with the phenotype cd45ra - positive ,  cd45ro - negative ,  and ccr7 - negative .
a lymphocyte that lacks characteristic t cell ,  b cell ,  myeloid cell ,  and dendritic cell markers ,  that functions as part of the innate immune response to produce cytokines and other effector responses .
an innate lymphoid cell that is capable of producing the type 1 cytokine ifn - gamma ,  but not th2 or th17 cell - associated cytokines .
a lymphocyte of b lineage that is cd19 - positive .
a b cell that is cd19 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  alpha - beta t cell with memory phenotype indicated by being cd45ro and cd127 - positive .
cd4 - positive ,  alpha - beta long - lived t cell with the phenotype cd45ro - positive and cd127 - positive .
a progenitor cell that can give rise to plasmacytoid and myeloid dendritic cells ,  and to monocytes and macrophages .
a cell type that can give rise to basophil and mast cells .
a hematopoietic progenitor cell that is capable of developing into only one lineage of hematopoietic cells .
a hematopoietic oligopotent progenitor cell that has the ability to differentiate into limited cell types but lacks lineage cell markers and self renewal capabilities .
an epithelial cell derived from endoderm .
a cell found in the bone marrow .
a cell involved in the formation of a granulocyte .
a cell involved in the formation of a monocyte  ( monopoiesis )  .
a large epithelial cell with an extremely acidophilic and granular cytoplasm ,  containing vast numbers of mitochondria ;  such cells may undergo neoplastic transformation .
a cell containing at least one nucleus .
a cell type that secretes histamine .
a cell that is part of the nervous system .
a cell of the supporting or framework tissue of the body ,  arising chiefly from the embryonic mesoderm and including adipose tissue ,  cartilage ,  and bone .
a cell of the embryo .
a multi - fate stem cell that is able to differentiate into the pancreas alpha ,  beta and delta endocrine cells .
an endo - epithelial cell of the respiratory tract .
a cell of an organism that does not pass on its genetic material to the organism's offspring  ( i .e .
a transversely striated ,  synctial muscle cell ,  formed by the fusion of myoblasts .
a t cell that expresses a t cell receptor complex and has completed t cell selection .
a t cell that has not completed t cell selection .
a reticulocyte lacking a nucleus and showing a basophilic reticulum under vital staining due to the presence of ribosomes .
a pro - t cell that is lin - negative ,  cd25 - negative ,  cd127 - negative ,  cd44 - positive and kit - positive .
a double - positive ,  alpha - beta thymocyte that is small and not proliferating .
a double - positive thymocyte that is large  ( i .e .
a double - positive thymocyte that is cd69 - positive and has begun positive selection .
a double - positive thymocyte that is undergoing positive selection ,  has high expression of the alpha - beta t cell receptor ,  is cd69 - positive ,  and is in the process of down regulating the cd4 co - receptor .
a double - positive thymocyte that is undergoing positive selection ,  has high expression of the alpha - beta t cell receptor ,  is cd69 - positive ,  and is in the process of down regulating the cd8 co - receptor .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive and expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative thymocyte that expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor and is cd69 - positive .
a cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative thymocyte that is cd24 - positive and expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor .
a cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative thymocyte that expresses high levels of the alpha - beta t cell receptor and is cd69 - positive .
a mature cd4 - positive ,  cd8 - negative alpha - beta t cell found in the thymus that is cd24 - low and has high expression of the t cell receptor .
a mature cd8 - positive ,  cd4 - negative alpha - beta t cell found in the thymus that is cd24 - low and has high expression of the t cell receptor .
the cell type from which oligodendrocytes develop .
a thymocyte that lacks expression of cd4 and cd8 .
an animal cell that is part of a hair follicle .
a neural crest cell that gives rise to cells of the enteric nervous system .
a neuroblast derived from a neural crest cell .
multi fate stem cell that gives rise to both hepatocytes and cholangiocytes as descendants .
cell that is part of the neural crest region of the neuroepithelium ,  prior to migration .
neuron that is part of the enteric nervous system .
any hematopoietic cell that is a precursor of some other hematopoietic cell type .
a transversely striated ,  synctial cell of skeletal muscle .
an endocrine cell that is part of the pancreas .
a motor neuron that passes from the spinal cord toward or to a muscle and conducts an impulse that causes movement .
a cell of the neural crest .
a precursor cell that has a tendency to differentiate into a specific type of cell .
a cell that ,  by division or terminal differentiation ,  can give rise to other cell types .
hematopoietic cells resident in the bone marrow .
neuron of the cerebellum .
any neuron that is part of a central nervous system .
any neuron that is part of a peripheral nervous system .
any leukocyte that is part of a spleen .
the maintenance of the structure and integrity of the mitochondrial genome ;  includes replication and segregation of the mitochondrial chromosome .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
catalysis of the reaction: lactose  +  h2o = d - glucose  +  d - galactose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving citrulline ,  n5 - carbamoyl - l - ornithine ,  an alpha amino acid not found in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur ,  comprising cysteine ,  homocysteine ,  methionine and selenocysteine .
a vacuole that is maintained at an acidic ph and which contains degradative enzymes ,  including a wide variety of acid hydrolases .
the cell cycle process in which sister chromatids are organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving arginine ,  2 - amino - 5 -  ( carbamimidamido ) pentanoic acid .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skeleton over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
a process in which membrane potential cycles through a depolarizing spike ,  triggered in response to depolarization above some threshold ,  followed by repolarization .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving retinoids ,  any member of a class of isoprenoids that contain or are derived from four prenyl groups linked head - to - tail .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a blood vessel over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ceramide oligosaccharides carrying in addition to other sugar residues ,  one or more sialic acid residues .
a homeostatic process in which an organism modulates its internal body temperature .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving long - chain fatty acids ,  a long - chain fatty acid is a fatty acid with a chain length between c13 and c22 .
the characteristic movement of an immature neuron from germinal zones to specific positions where they will reside as they mature .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
the morphogenesis of an embryonic epithelium into a tube - shaped structure .
the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
the last step in the formation of the neural tube ,  where the paired neural folds are brought together and fuse at the dorsal midline .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined tissue of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
the directed killing of a target cell by a leukocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte mediated cytotoxicity .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the vasculature over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
replacement ossification wherein bone tissue replaces cartilage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cytokine mediated signaling pathway .
an action or movement due to the application of a sudden unexpected stimulus .
the process in which the anatomical structures of epithelia are generated and organized .
a process carried out by the nervous system that is required for the proper control of respiratory gaseous exchange .
a protein complex having creatine kinase activity .
an octomeric protein complex having creatine kinase activity .
the series of events that restore integrity to damaged tissue that contribute to an inflammatory response .
an immune response mediated by cells expressing specific receptors for antigen produced through a somatic diversification process ,  and allowing for an enhanced secondary response to subsequent exposures to the same antigen  ( immunological memory )  .
any process of the immune system that can potentially contribute to an immune response .
any process that initiates an immune response .
the process of regulating the proliferation and elimination of myeloid cells such that the total number of myeloid cells within a whole or part of an organism is stable over time in the absence of an outside stimulus .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
a change in the morphology or behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an inflammatory response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
the expansion of a t cell population by cell division as part of an immune response .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell during an immune response ,  resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the expansion of a b cell population by cell division following b cell activation during an immune response .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor ,  leading to the initiation or perpetuation of an immune response .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a myeloid leukocyte .
any process involved in the carrying out of an immune response by a neutrophil .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system whose objective is to provide calibrated responses by an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat ,  over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized hemopoietic precursor cell acquires the specialized features of a leukocyte .
inflammation which comprises a rapid ,  short - lived ,  relatively uniform response to acute injury or antigenic challenge and is characterized by accumulations of fluid ,  plasma proteins ,  and granulocytic leukocytes .
the synthesis or release of any molecular mediator of the inflammatory response following an inflammatory stimulus ,  resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases following a stimulus as part of an inflammatory response ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals ,  resulting in an increase in their intracellular or extracellular levels .
inflammation of prolonged duration  ( weeks or months )  in which active inflammation ,  tissue destruction ,  and attempts at repair are proceeding simultaneously .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an acute inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a chronic inflammatory response .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as part of a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of leukocyte mediated immunity .
the controlled release of a peptide from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of peptide secretion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an adaptive immune response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of myeloid leukocyte mediated immunity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a humoral immune response .
the pattern specification process that results in the subdivision of an axis or axes in space to define an area or volume in which specific patterns of cell differentiation will take place or in which cells interpret a specific environment .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
a process in which force is generated within skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within voluntary skeletal muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a organ system process carried out at the level of a muscle .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the circulatory system .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the renal system .
a circulatory system process carried out by the heart .
a process carried out by the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( s )  - 3 - hydroxyacyl - coa  +  nad +  = 3 - oxoacyl - coa  +  nadh  +  h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
catalysis of the reaction: palmitoyl - coa  +  l - carnitine = coa  +  l - palmitoylcarnitine .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( s )  - malate = fumarate  +  h ( 2 ) o .
catalysis of the reaction:  ( r )  - methylmalonyl - coa = succinyl - coa .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any o - glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the endohydrolysis of  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - alpha - d - glucosidic linkages in polysaccharides containing three or more alpha -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked d - glucose units .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of terminal ,  non - reducing beta - d - galactose residues in beta - d - galactosides .
catalysis of the reaction: 3 - phospho - d - glycerate  +  atp = 3 - phospho - d - glyceroyl phosphate  +  adp  +  h (  +  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = 3 - phospho - d - glycerate .
catalysis of the reaction: 2 - phospho - d - glycerate = phosphoenolpyruvate  +  h2o .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  propanoyl - coa  +  hco3 -  = adp  +  phosphate  +   ( s )  - methylmalonyl - coa .
catalysis of the reaction: atp  +  bicarbonate  +  pyruvate = adp  +  2 h (  +  )   +  oxaloacetate  +  phosphate .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
the space external to the outermost structure of a cell .
a collagen - containing extracellular matrix consisting of a thin layer of dense material found in various animal tissues interposed between the cells and the adjacent connective tissue .
that part of a multicellular organism outside the cells proper ,  usually taken to be outside the plasma membranes ,  and occupied by fluid .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
all of the contents of a cell excluding the plasma membrane and nucleus ,  but including other subcellular structures .
a semiautonomous ,  self replicating organelle that occurs in varying numbers ,  shapes ,  and sizes in the cytoplasm of virtually all eukaryotic cells .
the double lipid bilayer enclosing the mitochondrion and separating its contents from the cell cytoplasm ;  includes the intermembrane space .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of the mitochondrial envelope .
the protein complexes that form the mitochondrial electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with the inner mitochondrial membrane .
a proton - transporting atp synthase complex found in the mitochondrial membrane .
the gel - like material ,  with considerable fine structure ,  that lies in the matrix space ,  or lumen ,  of a mitochondrion .
a small lytic vacuole that has cell cycle - independent morphology and is found in most animal cells and that contains a variety of hydrolases ,  most of which have their maximal activities in the ph range 5 - 6 .
a closed structure ,  found only in eukaryotic cells ,  that is completely surrounded by unit membrane and contains liquid material .
the volume enclosed within the vacuolar membrane .
the membrane surrounding a cell that separates the cell from its external environment .
a specialized eukaryotic organelle that consists of a filiform extrusion of the cell surface and of some cytoplasmic parts .
the region of a cell that lies just beneath the plasma membrane and often ,  but not always ,  contains a network of actin filaments and associated proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monosaccharides ,  the simplest carbohydrates .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fructose ,  the ketohexose arabino - 2 - hexulose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glucose ,  the aldohexose gluco - hexose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving galactose ,  the aldohexose galacto - hexose .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aminoglycans ,  any polymer containing amino groups that consists of more than about 10 monosaccharide residues joined to each other by glycosidic linkages .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving alcohols ,  any of a class of compounds containing one or more hydroxyl groups attached to a saturated carbon atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aldehydes ,  any organic compound with the formula r - ch=o ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lactate ,  the anion of lactic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyruvate ,  2 - oxopropanoate .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and any process involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
the formation of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors ,  such as pyruvate ,  amino acids and glycerol .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate ,  with the concomitant production of a small amount of atp and the reduction of nad ( p )  to nad ( p ) h . glycolysis begins with the metabolism of a carbohydrate to generate products that can enter the pathway and ends with the production of pyruvate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis ,  the formation of glucose from noncarbohydrate precursors ,  such as pyruvate ,  amino acids and glycerol .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purines .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases ,  one of the two classes of nitrogen - containing ring compounds found in dna and rna ,  which include adenine and guanine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine nucleotide ,  a compound consisting of nucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a nucleoside diphosphate to produce a nucleoside triphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases ,  1 , 3 - diazine ,  organic nitrogenous bases .
any cellular metabolic process involving deoxyribonucleic acid .
the process of restoring dna after damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
the cellular metabolic process in which a protein is formed ,  using the sequence of a mature mrna or circrna molecule to specify the sequence of amino acids in a polypeptide chain .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
a protein modification process that results in the addition of a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit to a protein amino acid ,  e .g .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the n4 atom of peptidyl - asparagine ,  the omega - n of arginine ,  or the n1' atom peptidyl - tryptophan .
a protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via the hydroxyl group of peptidyl - serine ,  peptidyl - threonine ,  peptidyl - hydroxylysine ,  or peptidyl - hydroxyproline ,  or via the phenol group of peptidyl - tyrosine ,  forming an o - glycan .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids ,  carboxylic acids containing one or more amino groups ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving arginine ,  2 - amino - 5 -  ( carbamimidamido ) pentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cysteine ,  2 - amino - 3 - mercaptopropanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glutamine ,  2 - amino - 4 - carbamoylbutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycine ,  aminoethanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving histidine ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 4 - yl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoleucine ,   ( 2r* , 3r* )  - 2 - amino - 3 - methylpentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving leucine ,  2 - amino - 4 - methylpentanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lysine ,  2 , 6 - diaminohexanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving methionine  ( 2 - amino - 4 -  ( methylthio ) butanoic acid )  ,  a sulfur - containing ,  essential amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - phenylalanine ,  the l - enantiomer of 2 - amino - 3 - phenylpropanoic acid ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving proline  ( pyrrolidine - 2 - carboxylic acid )  ,  a chiral ,  cyclic ,  nonessential alpha - amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - serine ,  the l - enantiomer of serine ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving threonine  ( 2 - amino - 3 - hydroxybutyric acid )  ,  a polar ,  uncharged ,  essential amino acid found in peptide linkage in proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tryptophan ,  the chiral amino acid 2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tyrosine ,  an aromatic amino acid ,  2 - amino - 3 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) propanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving valine ,  2 - amino - 3 - methylbutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds derived from amino acids ,  organic acids containing one or more amino substituents .
the chemical reactions and pathways occurring at the level of individual cells involving any of a group of naturally occurring ,  biologically active amines ,  such as norepinephrine ,  histamine ,  and serotonin ,  many of which act as neurotransmitters .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any betaine ,  the n - trimethyl derivative of an amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving melanins ,  pigments largely of animal origin .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving indolalkylamines ,  indole or indole derivatives containing a primary ,  secondary ,  or tertiary amine group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ornithine ,  an amino acid only rarely found in proteins ,  but which is important in living organisms as an intermediate in the reactions of the urea cycle and in arginine biosynthesis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving creatine  ( n -  ( aminoiminomethyl )  - n - methylglycine )  ,  a compound synthesized from the amino acids arginine ,  glycine ,  and methionine that occurs in muscle .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids ,  aliphatic monocarboxylic acids liberated from naturally occurring fats and oils by hydrolysis .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving membrane lipids ,  any lipid found in or associated with a biological membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycolipids ,  a class of 1 , 2 - di - o - acylglycerols joined at oxygen 3 by a glycosidic linkage to a carbohydrate part  ( usually a mono -  ,  di -  or tri - saccharide )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sphingolipids ,  any of a class of lipids containing the long - chain amine diol sphingosine or a closely related base  ( a sphingoid )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ceramides ,  any n - acylated sphingoid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosphingolipids ,  any compound with residues of sphingoid and at least one monosaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving icosanoids ,  any of a group of c20 polyunsaturated fatty acids .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving prostanoids ,  any compound based on or derived from the prostanoate structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving prostaglandins ,  any of a group of biologically active metabolites which contain a cyclopentane ring due to the formation of a bond between two carbons of a fatty acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid compounds ,  isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  or compounds containing or derived from linked isoprene  ( 3 - methyl - 2 - butenylene )  residues .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving terpenoids ,  any member of a class of compounds characterized by an isoprenoid chemical structure and including derivatives with various functional groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic compounds ,  any organic compound characterized by one or more planar rings ,  each of which contains conjugated double bonds and delocalized pi electrons ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any phosphorylated nucleoside .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into adp ,  adenosine diphosphate ,  to produce atp .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving of any of a diverse group of vitamins that are soluble in organic solvents and relatively insoluble in water .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the vitamin a compounds ,  retinol ,  retinal  ( retinaldehyde )  and retinoic acid ,  all of which are derivatives of beta - carotene .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any member of a large group of derivatives or analogs of porphyrin .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any member of a large group of derivatives or analogs of porphyrin .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme ,  any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring ,  from less complex precursors .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur ,  such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the transport of substances that occurs outside cells .
the directed extracellular movement of carbohydrates .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions at the level of a cell .
a vesicle - mediated transport process that results in the engulfment of external particulate material by phagocytes and their delivery to the lysosome .
a programmed cell death process which begins when a cell receives an internal  ( e .g .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
a process in which force is generated within muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
a process in which force is generated within striated muscle tissue ,  resulting in the shortening of the muscle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle contraction .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
any process involved in the activation of any of the steps of the complement cascade ,  which allows for the direct killing of microbes ,  the disposal of immune complexes ,  and the regulation of other immune processes ;  the initial steps of complement activation involve one of three pathways ,  the classical pathway ,  the alternative pathway ,  and the lectin pathway ,  all of which lead to the terminal complement pathway .
an immune response mediated through a body fluid .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion ;  includes mitochondrial morphogenesis and distribution ,  and replication of the mitochondrial genome as well as synthesis of new mitochondrial components .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrial membrane ,  either of the lipid bilayer surrounding a mitochondrion .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the plasma membrane .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions in the vacuole or between a vacuole and its surroundings .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the attachment of a cell ,  either to another cell or to an underlying substrate such as the extracellular matrix ,  via cell adhesion molecules .
the attachment of a leukocyte to another cell via adhesion molecules .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
a series of molecular signals initiated by activation of a receptor on the surface of a cell .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another .
the vesicular release of classical neurotransmitter molecules from a presynapse ,  across a chemical synapse ,  the subsequent activation of neurotransmitter receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol .
the process in which glial cells envelop neuronal cell bodies and / or axons to form an insulating layer .
the process of synaptic transmission from a neuron to a muscle ,  across a synapse .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
the generation and maintenance of gametes in a multicellular organism .
the developmental process by which male germ line stem cells self renew or give rise to successive cell types resulting in the development of a spermatozoa .
the introduction of semen or sperm into the genital tract of a female .
any developmental process that results in the creation of defined areas or spaces within an organism to which cells respond and eventually are instructed to differentiate .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of nervous tissue over time ,  from its formation to its mature state .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the central nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the peripheral nervous system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the establishment of the sex of an organism by physical differentiation .
the set of physiological processes that allow an embryo or foetus to develop within the body of a female animal .
the reproductive process in which the parent is separated from its offspring either by giving birth to live young or by laying eggs .
the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
the whole of the physical ,  chemical ,  and biochemical processes carried out by multicellular organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
the controlled release of a fluid by a cell or tissue in an animal .
the sequential process in which the multiple coagulation factors of the blood interact ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of an insoluble fibrin clot ;  it may be divided into three stages: stage 1 ,  the formation of intrinsic and extrinsic prothrombin converting principle ;  stage 2 ,  the formation of thrombin ;  stage 3 ,  the formation of stable fibrin polymers .
a protein activation cascade that contributes to blood coagulation and consists of the interactions among high molecular weight kininogen ,  prekallikrein ,  and factor xii that lead to the activation of clotting factor x .
a protein activation cascade that contributes to blood coagulation and consists of the self - limited process linking exposure and activation of tissue factor to the activation of clotting factor x .
the stopping of bleeding  ( loss of body fluid )  or the arrest of the circulation to an organ or part .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a visual stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an auditory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory chemical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive an olfactory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of animals  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli ,  via a mechanism that involves nervous system activity .
the behavioral interactions between organisms for the purpose of mating ,  or sexual reproduction resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the pairwise union of individuals for the purpose of sexual reproduction ,  ultimately resulting in the formation of zygotes .
the act of sexual union between male and female ,  involving the transfer of sperm .
the specific behavior of an organism that recur with measured regularity .
any biological process in an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
the act of bringing an object or substance into the body by swallowing ,  surrounding or absorbing it  [ nbo:smac ] 
the flow of blood through the body of an animal ,  enabling the transport of nutrients to the tissues and the removal of waste products .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
a biological process represents a specific objective that the organism is genetically programmed to achieve .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids ,  compounds with a 1 , 2 , cyclopentanoperhydrophenanthrene nucleus .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the activity of binding selectively and non - covalently to and distorting the original structure of dna ,  typically a straight helix ,  into a bend ,  or increasing the bend if the original structure was intrinsically bent due to its sequence .
any process in which the axon of a neuron is insulated ,  and that insulation maintained ,  thereby preventing dispersion of the electrical signal .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the reaction: h ( 2 ) o  +  o ( 2 )   +  sulfite = h ( 2 ) o ( 2 )   +  h (  +  )   +  sulfate .
catalysis of the transfer of an amino group to an acceptor ,  usually a 2 - oxo acid .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the epidermis over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the directed movement of carbohydrate into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the process in which hexose is transported across a membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the glutamine family ,  comprising arginine ,  glutamate ,  glutamine and proline .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the aspartate family ,  comprising asparagine ,  aspartate ,  lysine ,  methionine and threonine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the serine family ,  comprising cysteine ,  glycine ,  homoserine ,  selenocysteine and serine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving aromatic amino acid family ,  amino acids with aromatic ring  ( phenylalanine ,  tyrosine ,  tryptophan )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing a branched carbon skeleton ,  comprising isoleucine ,  leucine and valine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase ,  a nitrogenous base that is a constituent of a nucleic acid ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleotide ,  a nucleoside that is esterified with  ( ortho ) phosphate or an oligophosphate at any hydroxyl group on the glycose moiety ;  may be mono -  ,  di -  or triphosphate ;  this definition includes cyclic nucleotides  ( nucleoside cyclic phosphates )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a deoxyribose or ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose or deoxyribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a purine base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine ribonucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a purine base linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleoside diphosphate ,  a compound consisting of a nucleobase linked to a ribose sugar esterified with diphosphate on the sugar .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a ribonucleotide ,  a compound consisting of ribonucleoside  ( a base linked to a ribose sugar )  esterified with a phosphate group at either the 3' or 5' - hydroxyl group of the sugar .
the region of a virus ,  bacterial cell ,  mitochondrion or chloroplast to which the nucleic acid is confined .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carnitine  ( hydroxy - trimethyl aminobutyric acid )  ,  a compound that participates in the transfer of acyl groups across the inner mitochondrial membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving methylglyoxal ,  ch3 - co - cho ,  the aldehyde of pyruvic acid .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo from its formation until the end of its embryonic life stage .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an embryo over time ,  from zygote formation until the end of the embryonic life stage .
morphogenesis of an animal organ .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tissue over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epidermal cell ,  any of the cells making up the epidermis .
the directed movement of hormones into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a glial cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the endomembrane system .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of glycoproteins ,  any protein that contains covalently bound glycose  ( i .e .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a ketone ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of platelet activation .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
the activation of endogenous cellular processes that result in the death of a cell as part of its development .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that modulates the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that increases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that decreases the rate ,  extent or frequency of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of alkaline phosphatase activity ,  the catalysis of the reaction: an orthophosphoric monoester  +  h2o = an alcohol  +  phosphate ,  with an alkaline ph optimum .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the levels of hormone within an organism or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a mitochondrion .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glucose transport across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholesterol esterification .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholesterol esterification .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of glucose metabolism .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of glucose metabolism .
any process that modulates the activity of an isomerase .
any process that increases the activity of an isomerase .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of phosphatase activity .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of magnesium ions within an organism or cell .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
the process aimed at the progression of an oligodendrocyte over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gliogenesis ,  the formation of mature glia .
the formation of the neural tube from an epithelial cell sheet  ( the neuroepithelium or neural plate )  .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a schwann cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of schwann cell differentiation .
the process aimed at the progression of a schwann cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle contraction .
a process in which force is generated within phasic smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of skeletal muscle contraction by depolarization of muscle membrane and ionic fluxes .
the process in which a monosaccharide is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of galactosyl compounds ,  substances containing a group derived from a cyclic form of galactose or a galactose derivative .
a lipid bilayer along with all the proteins and protein complexes embedded in it an attached to it .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
the process in which a cell irreversibly increases in size over time by accretion and biosynthetic production of matter similar to that already present .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic acids ,  any acidic compound containing carbon in covalent linkage .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving diterpenoid compounds ,  terpenoids with four isoprene units .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sterols ,  steroids with one or more hydroxyl groups and a hydrocarbon side - chain in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosides ,  compounds in which a glycosyl group is substituted into a hydroxyl ,  thiol or selenol group in another compound .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
a discrete intracellular part formed of aggregated molecules such as proteins or other biopolymers .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
the process of removing one or more phosphoric  ( ester or anhydride )  residues from a molecule .
the process in which the anatomical structures of embryonic epithelia are generated and organized .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to an oxygen atom on the carnitine molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a palmitoyl  ( ch3 -  [ ch2 ] 14 - co -  )  group to an acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a palmitoyl group to an oxygen atom on the acceptor molecule .
catalysis of the joining of a carboxyl group to a molecule that is attached to coa ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
a large protein complex that catalyzes the synthesis or hydrolysis of atp by a rotational mechanism ,  coupled to the transport of protons across a membrane .
the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell from one site to a destination guided by molecular cues .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group act as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a ch - oh group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad +  or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces nad or nadp .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which a sulfur - containing group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces oxygen .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group ,  other than amino - acyl ,  from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a nitrogenous group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to a carboxyl group  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any ester bond .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of phosphoric monoesters ,  releasing inorganic phosphate .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of any glycosyl bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
catalysis of the breakage of a carbon - oxygen bond .
catalysis of the cleavage of a carbon - oxygen bond by elimination of water .
catalysis of the geometric or structural changes within one molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a functional group from one position to another within a single molecule .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group from one position to another within a single molecule .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules ,  or two groups within a single molecule ,  using the energy from the hydrolysis of atp ,  a similar triphosphate ,  or a ph gradient .
catalysis of the joining of two molecules via a carbon - carbon bond ,  with the concomitant hydrolysis of the diphosphate bond in atp or a similar triphosphate .
catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction in which an aldehyde or ketone  ( oxo )  group acts as a hydrogen or electron donor and reduces a hydrogen or electron acceptor .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a phenol ,  any compound containing one or more hydroxyl groups directly attached to an aromatic carbon ring .
the specific behavior of an organism that is associated with reproduction .
catalysis of the reaction: methylglyoxal  +  h2o = d - lactate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any cellular process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
a series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a cytokine to a receptor on the surface of a cell ,  and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the neurological system process in which a signal is transmitted through the nervous system by a combination of action potential propagation and synaptic transmission .
the series of events by which an organism senses the position ,  location ,  orientation ,  and movement of the body and its parts .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of lactate ,  the anion of lactic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a hexose ,  any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of hexose ,  any monosaccharide with a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of aromatic compounds ,  any substance containing an aromatic carbon ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organophosphates ,  any phosphate - containing organic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ribose phosphate ,  any phosphorylated ribose sugar .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoids .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in many of the chemical changes of compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
a protein complex that in its canonical form is composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds and sometimes complexed with additional proteins .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving l - ascorbic acid ,   ( 2r )  - 2 -  [  ( 1s )  - 1 , 2 - dihydroxyethyl ]  - 4 - hydroxy - 5 - oxo - 2 , 5 - dihydrofuran - 3 - olate ;  l - ascorbic acid is vitamin c and has co - factor and anti - oxidant activities in many species .
the inner ,  i .e .lumen - facing ,  lipid bilayer of an organelle envelope ;  usually highly selective to most ions and metabolites .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure ,  cell or cellular component to attain its fully functional state .
the process aimed at the progression of a glial cell over time ,  from initial commitment of the cell to a specific fate ,  to the fully functional differentiated cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the neural tube over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
generation of cells within the nervous system .
the process in which neuronal axons and dendrites become coated with a segmented lipid - rich sheath  ( myelin )  to enable faster and more energetically efficient conduction of electrical impulses .
the process in which neuronal axons and dendrites become coated with a segmented lipid - rich sheath  ( myelin )  to enable faster and more energetically efficient conduction of electrical impulses .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
one of the distinct periods or stages into which the cell cycle is divided .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell adhesion to another cell .
a behavioral process involved in the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a process ,  occurring at the cellular level ,  that is involved in the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the progression of physiological phases ,  occurring in the endometrium during the menstrual cycle that recur at regular intervals during the reproductive years .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
the attachment of a cell or organism to a substrate ,  another cell ,  or other organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the process in which a signal is secreted or discharged into the extracellular medium from a cellular source .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations at the level of a cell .
a cellular component that forms a specialized region of connection between two or more cells ,  or between a cell and the extracellular matrix ,  or between two membrane - bound components of a cell ,  such as flagella .
the regulated release of a peptide hormone from a cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the myeloid and lymphoid derived organ / tissue systems of the blood and other parts of the body over time ,  from formation to the mature structure .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized precursor cell acquires specialized features of a lymphocyte .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized myeloid precursor cell acquires the specialized features of any cell of the myeloid leukocyte ,  megakaryocyte ,  thrombocyte ,  or erythrocyte lineages .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of attachment of a cell to another cell or to the extracellular matrix .
a series of progressive ,  overlapping events triggered by exposure of the platelets to subendothelial tissue .
the process in which a precursor cell type acquires the specialized features of a b cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosaminoglycans ,  any one of a group of polysaccharides that contain amino sugars .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of a keratinocyte .
the process in which a myeloid precursor cell acquires specializes features of an erythrocyte .
the regulated release of growth hormone from secretory granules into the blood .
the covalent alteration of one or more fatty acids in a lipid ,  resulting in a change in the properties of the lipid .
the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
the deposition of hydroxyapatite ,  a form of calcium phosphate with the formula ca10 ( po4 ) 6 ( oh ) 2 ,  in bone tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  extent or direction of cell growth .
a structure that lies outside the plasma membrane and surrounds the entire cell or cells .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the respiratory tube over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the lung over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell migration .
the expulsion of feces from the rectum .
the long process of a neuron that conducts nerve impulses ,  usually away from the cell body to the terminals and varicosities ,  which are sites of storage and release of neurotransmitter .
a neuron projection that has a short ,  tapering ,  morphology .
any process in which an organism enters and maintains a periodic ,  readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity .
a wavelike sequence of involuntary muscular contraction and relaxation that passes along a tubelike structure ,  such as the intestine ,  impelling the contents onwards .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an epithelial cell ,  any of the cells making up an epithelium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial cell differentiation .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the mammary gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of b cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of b cell proliferation .
a nonmembrane - bound oligomeric protein complex that participates in bidirectional transport of molecules  ( cargo )  along axonemal microtubules .
a structure lying external to one or more cells ,  which provides structural support ,  biochemical or biomechanical cues for cells or tissues .
the dna metabolic process in which micronuclear - limited sequences ,  internal eliminated sequences  ( ies )  and breakage eliminated sequences  ( bes )  are removed from the developing macronucleus  ( anlage )  of a ciliate .
a membrane that is one of the two lipid bilayers of an organelle envelope or the outermost membrane of single membrane bound organelle .
formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds ,  and also contain a small amounts of organic matrices that are believed to play important roles in their formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur amino acids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing ,  the process in which a cell brings about the death of another cell ,  either in the same or a different organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
the process in which the cytoplasm of the outermost cells of the vertebrate epidermis is replaced by keratin .
a cilium which may have a variable arrangement of axonemal microtubules and also contains molecular motors .
the junction between the axon of a motor neuron and a muscle fiber .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of cells of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a myelin sheath around nerve axons .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a neurophysiological process .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
either of the lipid bilayers that surround the mitochondrion and form the mitochondrial envelope .
a double membrane structure enclosing an organelle ,  including two lipid bilayers and the region between them .
the enclosed volume within a sealed membrane or between two sealed membranes .
a multilayered structure surrounding all or part of a cell ;  encompasses one or more lipid bilayers ,  and may include a cell wall layer ;  also includes the space between layers .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mitochondrial dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process which modulates appetite ,  the desire or physical craving for food .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an extracellular stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to nutrient levels .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process in which the structure and material content of mature central nervous system myelin is kept in a functional state .
the process in which the wraps of cell membrane that constitute myelin are laid down around an axon in the central or peripheral nervous system .
the process in which the wraps of cell membrane that constitute myelin are laid down around an axon by an oligodendrocyte in the central nervous system .
the process in which a glial cell membrane closes around an axon in the central nervous system .
the process in which a schwann cell membrane closes around an axon in the peripheral nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any biological process ,  occurring at the level of a multicellular organism ,  pertinent to its function .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by one or two multicellular organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  ( cooh )  group or anion  ( coo -  )  .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded cell projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
all of the contents of a dendrite ,  excluding the surrounding plasma membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving polysaccharides .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell .
the controlled release of a substance by a tissue .
the expansion of a mononuclear cell population by cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mononuclear cell proliferation .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
any macromolecular complex composed of two or more polypeptide subunits ,  which may or may not be identical .
a macromolecular complex containing separate protein and lipid molecules .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving tetrapyrroles ,  natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
the chemical reactions and pathways leading to the formation of tetrapyrroles ,  natural pigments containing four pyrrole rings joined by one - carbon units linking position 2 of one pyrrole ring to position 5 of the next .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a chromosome .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sister chromatid segregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform amines .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amines .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a carbohydrate within an organism or cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an unsaturated fatty acid ,  any fatty acid containing one or more double bonds between carbon atoms .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process of regulating the production and elimination of erythrocytes within an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of tissue remodeling .
the attachment of a cell to a second cell of the identical type via adhesion molecules .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of homotypic cell - cell adhesion .
the process in which a carbohydrate is transported across a membrane .
a process in which an ion is transported across a membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amides .
a spherical particle with a hydrophobic core of triglycerides and / or cholesterol esters ,  surrounded by an amphipathic monolayer of phospholipids ,  cholesterol and apolipoproteins .
a lipid modification process in which a steroid ester is formed by the combination of a carboxylic acid  ( often a fatty acid )  and a steroid molecule  ( e .g .
a lipid modification process in which a sterol ester is formed by the combination of a carboxylic acid  ( often a fatty acid )  and a sterol molecule  ( e .g .
a lipid modification process in which a sterol ester is formed by the combination of a carboxylic acid  ( often a fatty acid )  and cholesterol .
the process in which calcium salts are deposited into calcareous tooth structures such as dental enamel ,  dentin and cementum .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving various organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a macromolecule ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a solute from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of ions from one side of a membrane to the other .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an anatomical structure through which gases and / or liquids flow .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized .
the increase in size or mass of an organ .
the regionalization process that divides an organism or part of an organism into a series of semi - repetitive parts ,  or segments ,  often arranged along a longitudinal axis .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tube over time ,  from its initial formation to a mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process the stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of removal of phosphate groups from a molecule .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
the deposition of hydroxyapatite ,  involved in the progression of the skeleton from its formation to its mature state .
the transfer of information occurring at the level of a multicellular organism .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of another organism .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a nail over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the covalent attachment of a fucosyl group to an acceptor molecule .
the process of transferring a fucosyl group to a serine or threonine residues in a protein acceptor molecule ,  to form an o - linked protein - sugar linkage .
ossification that requires the replacement of a preexisting tissue prior to bone tissue formation .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
any process in which dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure within a nucleoid .
the region of a neuron that includes the cell body  ( cell soma )  and dendrite ( s )  ,  but excludes the axon .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the process that results in the generation of glial cells .
growth of glial cells ,  non - neuronal cells that provide support and nutrition ,  maintain homeostasis ,  form myelin ,  and participate in signal transmission in the nervous system .
the expansion of a t cell population by cell division .
the expansion of a b cell population by cell division .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature t cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
the change in morphology and behavior of a mature or immature b cell resulting from exposure to a mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or an antigen for which it is specific .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of t cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heme ,  any compound of iron complexed in a porphyrin  ( tetrapyrrole )  ring .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of ketones ,  a class of organic compounds that contain the carbonyl group ,  co ,  and in which the carbonyl group is bonded only to carbon atoms .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin d ,  any of a group of related ,  fat - soluble compounds that are derived from delta - 5 , 7 steroids and play a central role in calcium metabolism .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving vitamin e ,  tocopherol ,  which includes a series of eight structurally similar compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any of the forms of vitamin k ,  quinone - derived vitamins which are involved in the synthesis of blood - clotting factors in mammals .
any process that modulates the establishment or extent of a membrane potential ,  the electric potential existing across any membrane arising from charges in the membrane itself and from the charges present in the media on either side of the membrane .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that contain an indole  ( 2 , 3 - benzopyrrole )  skeleton .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  e .g .
the movement of a cell or organism in response to a stimulus in which the rate of movement depends on the intensity  ( rather than the direction )  of the stimulus .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a dentin - containing tooth over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a tooth or teeth over time ,  from formation to the mature structure ( s )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of a tooth or teeth .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages that are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation and development of teeth ,  the hard ,  bony appendages which are borne on the jaws ,  or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx .
the process in which myelin sheaths are formed and maintained around neurons .
an immunoglobulin complex that is secreted into extracellular space and found in mucosal areas or other tissues or circulating in the blood or lymph .
catalysis of the reaction: rpo - r'  +  h2o = rpooh  +  r'h .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of glucose within an organism or cell .
a large lipoprotein particle  ( diameter 75 - 1200 nm )  composed of a central core of triglycerides and cholesterol surrounded by a protein - phospholipid coating .
the region of a mitochondrion to which the dna is confined .
the beginning of development of the breasts in the female .
the beginning of the menstrual cycle ;  the first menstrual cycle in an individual .
the cyclic ,  physiologic discharge through the vagina of blood and endometrial tissues from the nonpregnant uterus .
the expulsion of seminal fluid ,  thick white fluid containing spermatozoa ,  from the male genital tract .
a process that solubilizes fibrin in the bloodstream of a multicellular organism ,  chiefly by the proteolytic action of plasmin .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a bacterium that act to protect the cell or organism .
the cycle from wakefulness through an orderly succession of sleep states and stages that occurs on an approximately 24 hour rhythm .
a stage in the circadian sleep cycle during which dreams occur and the body undergoes marked changes including rapid eye movement ,  loss of reflexes ,  and increased pulse rate and brain activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the circadian sleep / wake cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a circadian rhythm behavior .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of food ,  any substance  ( usually solid )  that can be metabolized by an organism to give energy and build tissue .
the specific behavior of an organism relating to the intake of liquids ,  especially water .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur ,  the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptotic process .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell ,  e .g .
a prolongation or process extending from a nerve cell ,  e .g .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the embryo over time ,  from zygote formation through a stage including a notochord and neural tube until birth or egg hatching .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell death by apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
the hardening ,  enlarging and rising of the penis which often occurs in the sexually aroused male and enables sexual intercourse .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
an electrically insulating fatty layer that surrounds the axons of many neurons .
the process of preserving the structure and function of mature myelin .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring outside the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the internal volume enclosed by the membranes of a particular organelle ;  includes the volume enclosed by a single organelle membrane ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
the covalent attachment of a glycosyl residue to one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid ;  an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of precursor metabolites ,  substances from which energy is derived ,  and the processes involved in the liberation of energy from these substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of carbohydrates .
the accumulation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  resulting in the deposition or aggregation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell .
the process of restoring mitochondrial dna after damage .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process of gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the skin over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an amide ,  any derivative of an oxoacid in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dicarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing two carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
catalysis of the reaction: d - glyceraldehyde 3 - phosphate  +  phosphate  +  nad ( p )  +  = 3 - phospho - d - glyceroyl phosphate  +  nad ( p ) h  +  h +  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
the formation of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone ,  involved in the progression of the skeleton from its formation to its mature state .
the formation or growth of bone or of a bony substance ,  or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone ,  involved in response to injury or other physical ,  physiological or environmental stress stimuli .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in an organ system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of excretion ,  the elimination by an organism of the waste products that arise as a result of metabolic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a respiratory system process ,  an organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of the respiratory system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving any organic compound that is weakly basic in character and contains an amino or a substituted amino group ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrates ,  any of a group of organic compounds based of the general formula cx ( h2o ) y ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic and inorganic nitrogenous compounds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of small molecules ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
a dendrite arising from another dendrite .
a process carried out by gene products in an organism that enable the organism to engage in a symbiotic relationship ,  a more or less intimate association ,  with another organism .
any process evolved to enable an interaction with an organism of a different species .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
a multicellular organism process which involves another multicellular organism of the same or different species .
a distinct period or stage in a biological process or cycle .
innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone tissue loss  ( resorption )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sleep ;  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
the junction between an axon of one neuron and a dendrite of another neuron ,  a muscle fiber or a glial cell .
a proton - transporting two - sector atpase complex that catalyzes the phosphorylation of adp to atp during oxidative phosphorylation .
a proton - transporting atp synthase complex found in the plasma membrane .
a change in morphology and behavior of a leukocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the process in which specialized cells known as osteoclasts degrade the organic and inorganic portions of bone ,  and endocytose and transport the degradation products .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermal cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of keratinocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of myeloid cell differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of erythrocyte differentiation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epidermis development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glia cell differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gluconeogenesis .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ,  that occurs in neutrophils ,  monocytes ,  and macrophages shortly after phagocytosing material .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna repair .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ossification ,  the formation of bone or of a bony substance or the conversion of fibrous tissue or of cartilage into bone or a bony substance .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone resorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone resorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of heart contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving isoprenoid .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of complement activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of muscle contraction .
any cellular process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any cellular process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleobases ,  nucleosides ,  nucleotides and nucleic acids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of sleep ,  a readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving steroids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nucleotides .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine nucleobases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving purine bases .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving pyrimidine nucleobases .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of striated muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of embryonic development .
any process that activates or increases the duration or quality of rapid eye movement  ( rem )  sleep .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving adp ,  adenosine 5' - diphosphate .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving atp ,  adenosine triphosphate ,  a universally important coenzyme and enzyme regulator .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving xanthine ,  2 , 6 - dihydroxypurine ,  a purine formed in the metabolic breakdown of guanine but not present in nucleic acids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a vitamin ,  one of a number of unrelated organic substances that occur in many foods in small amounts and that are necessary in trace amounts for the normal metabolic functioning of the body .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a pigment ,  any general or particular coloring matter in living organisms ,  e .g .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of aldehydes ,  any organic compound with the formula r - ch=o .
the directed movement of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the import of the hexose monosaccharide glucose into a cell or organelle .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monosaccharides ,  polyhydric alcohols containing either an aldehyde or a keto group and between three to ten or more carbon atoms .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one or more carboxyl  (  - cooh )  groups .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving heterocyclic compounds ,  those with a cyclic molecular structure and at least two different atoms in the ring  ( or rings )  .
the regulated release of saliva from the salivary glands .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary female sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the secondary male sexual characteristics over time ,  from their formation to the mature structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of growth of an organ of an organism .
a change in morphology and behavior of a lymphocyte resulting from exposure to a specific antigen ,  mitogen ,  cytokine ,  chemokine ,  cellular ligand ,  or soluble factor .
the expansion of a lymphocyte population by cell division .
the establishment of the sex of a male organism by physical differentiation .
the continuous turnover of bone matrix and mineral that involves first ,  an increase in resorption  ( osteoclastic activity )  and later ,  reactive bone formation  ( osteoblastic activity )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling ,  the processes of bone formation and resorption that combine to maintain skeletal integrity .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone remodeling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of saliva from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of saliva .
the regulated release of hormones ,  substances with a specific regulatory effect on a particular organ or group of cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of a hormone from a cell .
the controlled release of a substance by a cell or a tissue .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
the process of introducing one or more phosphate groups into a nucleotide to produce a phosphorylated nucleoside .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ketone bodies ,  any one of the three substances: acetoacetate ,  d - 3 - hydroxybutyrate  ( beta - hydroxybutyrate )  or acetone ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ketone bodies ,  any one of the three substances: acetoacetate ,  d - 3 - hydroxybutyrate  ( beta - hydroxybutyrate )  or acetone .
generation of the male gamete ;  specialised haploid cells produced by meiosis and along with a female gamete takes part in sexual reproduction .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process pertinent to the generation and maintenance of rhythms in the physiology of an organism .
the specific behavior of an organism that recurs with a regularity of approximately 24 hours .
development of a tissue or tissues that work together to perform a specific function or functions .
the process in which the anatomical structures of blood vessels are generated and organized .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the internally coordinated responses  ( actions or inactions )  of whole living organisms  ( individuals or groups )  to internal or external stimuli .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of any organ involved in hematopoiesis  ( also known as hemopoiesis )  or lymphoid cell activation over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the growth of a cell ,  where growth contributes to the progression of the cell over time from one condition to another .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell ,  where the increase in size or mass has the specific outcome of the progression of the organism over time from one condition to another .
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized during the embryonic phase .
the process ,  occurring above the cellular level ,  that is pertinent to the reproductive function of a multicellular organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of developmental growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of developmental growth .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the process in which nerve cells are generated .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the skeleton are generated and organized .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an oligodendrocyte .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of oligodendrocyte differentiation .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tissue are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organismal system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a gland over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an appendage over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the reorganization or renovation of existing tissues .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an animal organ to attain its fully functional state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of venous blood vessels are generated and organized .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state at the level of the multicellular organism .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a population of cells in a tissue .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving homocysteine ,  the amino acid alpha - amino - gamma - mercaptobutanoic acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving homocysteine ,  the amino acid alpha - amino - gamma - mercaptobutanoic acid .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving homocysteine .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving homocysteine .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of lymphocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of antiviral mechanisms ,  thereby facilitating viral replication .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the antiviral response of a cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response ,  the immediate defensive reaction  ( by vertebrate tissue )  to infection or injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis ,  the process in which phagocytes engulf external particulate material .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of phagocytosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells in the nervous system .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neurogenesis ,  the generation of cells within the nervous system .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of ions within an organism or cell .
the part of the circadian sleep / wake cycle where the organism is asleep .
any process that modulates the frequency or amplitude of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of synaptic transmission ,  the process of communication from a neuron to a target  ( neuron ,  muscle ,  or secretory cell )  across a synapse .
the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation ,  the process in which a fluid solution ,  or part of it ,  changes into a solid or semisolid mass .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of coagulation .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a cell adhesion molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation ,  the change in the morphology or behavior of a cell resulting from exposure to an activating factor such as a cellular or soluble ligand .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of t cell activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of b cell activation .
a organ system process carried out by any of the organs or tissues of neurological system .
any process that modulates the levels of body fluids .
any physiological process involved in changing the position of a multicellular organism or an anatomical part of a multicellular organism .
the movement of an organism or part of an organism using mechanoreceptors ,  the nervous system ,  striated muscle and / or the skeletal system .
any process in which an organism voluntarily modulates its posture ,  the alignment of its anatomical parts .
the operation of the mind by which an organism becomes aware of objects of thought or perception ;  it includes the mental activities associated with thinking ,  learning ,  and memory .
any process in which nutrients are taken up from the contents of the intestine .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process pertaining to the functions of the nervous and muscular systems of an organism .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory light stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory mechanical stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the controlled release of a substance from a cell or a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving dna .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving sulfur or compounds containing sulfur .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multicellular organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of a multicellular organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  any of the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of an organismal process ,  the processes pertinent to the function of an organism above the cellular level ;  includes the integrated processes of tissues and organs .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte activation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of chromosomes ,  structures composed of a very long molecule of dna and associated proteins that carries hereditary information .
the cell cycle 'gap' phase which is the interval between the completion of dna synthesis and the beginning of dna segregation  ( usually by mitosis or meiosis )  .
the cell cycle phase following cytokinesis which begins with g1 phase ,  proceeds through s phase and g2 phase and ends when prophase of meiosis or mitosis begins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of lyase activity ,  the catalysis of the cleavage of c - c ,  c - o ,  c - n and other bonds by other means than by hydrolysis or oxidation ,  or conversely adding a group to a double bond .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of ligase activity ,  the catalysis of the ligation of two substances with concomitant breaking of a diphosphate linkage ,  usually in a nucleoside triphosphate .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of oxidoreductase activity ,  the catalysis of an oxidation - reduction  ( redox )  reaction ,  a reversible chemical reaction in which the oxidation state of an atom or atoms within a molecule is altered .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within the cytoplasm of a cell or between mitochondria and their surroundings .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of methylglyoxal ,  ch3 - co - cho ,  the aldehyde of pyruvic acid .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a virus that act to protect the cell or organism .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process in which a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a membrane .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in the symbiont organism .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibrinolysis ,  an ongoing process that solubilizes fibrin ,  resulting in the removal of small blood clots .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibrinolysis ,  an ongoing process that solubilizes fibrin ,  resulting in the removal of small blood clots .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of fibrinolysis ,  an ongoing process that solubilizes fibrin ,  resulting in the removal of small blood clots .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sensory perception ,  the series of events required for an organism to receive a sensory stimulus ,  convert it to a molecular signal ,  and recognize and characterize the signal .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nervous system development ,  the origin and formation of nervous tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transmission of a nerve impulse ,  the sequential electrochemical polarization and depolarization that travels across the membrane of a neuron in response to stimulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome segregation ,  the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of chromosomes ,  is organized and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of phosphate ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of chloride ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of zinc ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of manganese ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of calcium ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of transition metal ions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of cations within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of anions within an organism or cell .
any biological process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of a chemical at the level of the cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of monovalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
the process in which a solute is transported across a lipid bilayer ,  from one side of a membrane to the other .
the cellular chemical reactions and pathways involving a nucleobase - containing small molecule: a nucleobase ,  a nucleoside ,  or a nucleotide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle contraction .
the transmission of vibrations via ossicles to the inner ear .
an automatic response to a stimulus beginning with a nerve impulse from a receptor and ending with the action of an effector such as a gland or a muscle .
the multicellular organismal process in which the heart decreases in volume in a characteristic way to propel blood through the body .
muscle contraction of cardiac muscle tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the glycosylation of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
the regulation of body fluids process in which parasympathetic nerves stimulate the bladder wall muscle to contract and expel urine from the body .
the process leading to shortening and / or development of tension in the urinary bladder smooth muscle tissue involved in the expulsion urine from the body .
the process of communication from a neuron to a smooth muscle in the bladder that contributes to the expulsion of urine from the body .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
any process that decreases or stops the frequency ,  rate or extent of the regulated release of growth hormone from a cell .
a reproductive process occurring in the embryo or fetus that allows the embryo or fetus to develop within the mother .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a limb over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state within a defined anatomical structure of an organism ,  including control of cellular proliferation and death and control of metabolic function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption of food or liquid"  [ nboc:gvg ] 
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of the progression of the cell over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
the process of creating a trabecula in an organ .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of bone over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
the process in which bones are generated and organized .
the process in which bones are generated and organized as a result of the conversion of initial cartilaginous anlage into bone .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of penile erection .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of penile erection .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate ,  frequency or extent of penile erection .
the process in which the anatomical structures of the lung are generated and organized .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of an epithelium over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cardiac muscle contraction .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a digestive system process ,  a physical ,  chemical ,  or biochemical process carried out by living organisms to break down ingested nutrients into components that may be easily absorbed and directed into metabolism .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a lung lobe from an initial condition to its mature state .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a lung lobe are generated and organized .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of a lung lobe from unspecified parts .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the progression of the lung ,  from its initial state to the mature structure .
the progression of the respiratory system over time from its formation to its mature structure .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
the increase in size or mass of an anatomical structure that contributes to the structure attaining its shape .
any apoptotic process that contributes to the shaping of an anatomical structure .
the process in which the anatomical structures of a tube are generated and organized from an epithelium .
creation of the central hole of a tube in an anatomical structure by sealing the edges of an epithelial fold .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of chromosome condensation ,  the progressive compaction of dispersed interphase chromatin into threadlike chromosomes prior to mitotic or meiotic nuclear division ,  or during apoptosis ,  in eukaryotic cells .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of a response to cytokine stimulus .
any process that mediates the transfer of information from one cell to another and contributes to the progression of the mammary gland ,  from its initial state to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation resulting in the maintenance of a steady - state number of cells within a tissue .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of cell death by apoptosis that results in the maintenance of the steady - state number of cells within a tissue .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation that contributes to the maintenance of a steady state of a cell type within a tissue .
the progression of the venous blood vessel over time from its initial formation to the mature structure .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
the morphogenesis process in which the ductus venosus changes to no longer permit blood flow after birth .
the process of shaping a trabecula in an organ .
a transferase complex capable of catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
a protein complex that is a protein hormone secreted by gonadotrope cells of the anterior pituitary of vertebrates .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of methylglyoxal ,  ch3 - co - cho ,  into lactate .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a small molecule metabolic process .
an extracellular matrix consisting mainly of proteins  ( especially collagen )  and glycosaminoglycans  ( mostly as proteoglycans )  that provides not only essential physical scaffolding for the cellular constituents but can also initiate crucial biochemical and biomechanical cues required for tissue morphogenesis ,  differentiation and homeostasis .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates a qualitative or quantitative trait of a biological quality .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
an organelle lumen that is part of an intracellular organelle .
the covalent attachment and further modification of carbohydrate residues to a substrate molecule .
the process in which calcium salts ,  mainly carbonated hydroxyapatite ,  are deposited in tooth enamel .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineral tissue development ,  the formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineral tissue development ,  the formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineral tissue development ,  the formation of hard tissues that consist mainly of inorganic compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tooth mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth structures .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tooth mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth structures .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tooth mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth structures .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of enamel mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth enamel .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of enamel mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth enamel .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of enamel mineralization ,  the deposition of calcium salts in tooth enamel .
any apoptotic process in a lymphocyte ,  a leukocyte commonly found in the blood and lymph that has the characteristics of a large nucleus ,  a neutral staining cytoplasm ,  and prominent heterochromatin .
any process that modulates the occurrence or rate of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of lymphocyte death by apoptotic process .
a protein complex that binds iron and acts as a major iron storage system .
a renal system process in which water ,  ions ,  glucose and proteins are taken up from the collecting ducts ,  glomerulus and proximal and distal loops of the nephron .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of heme .
the protein complexes that form the electron transport system  ( the respiratory chain )  ,  associated with a cell membrane ,  usually the plasma membrane  ( in prokaryotes )  or the inner mitochondrial membrane  ( on eukaryotes )  .
the adhesion of one platelet to one or more other platelets via adhesion molecules .
the expansion of a leukocyte population by cell division .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte proliferation .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the directed killing of a target cell by a neutrophil .
the directed killing of a symbiont target cell by a neutrophil .
the directed killing of a bacterium by a neutrophil .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neutrophil mediated killing of a target cell ,  the directed killing of a target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neutrophil mediated killing of a symbiont cell ,  the directed killing of a symbiont target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of neutrophil mediated killing of a bacterium ,  the directed killing of a bacterium by a neutrophil .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a symbiont target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a bacterium by a neutrophil .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a symbiont target cell by a neutrophil .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed killing of a bacterium by a neutrophil .
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for bone to attain its fully functional state .
a cellular process that results in a change in the spatial configuration of a dna molecule .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a developmental process ,  independent of morphogenetic  ( shape )  change ,  that is required for an anatomical structure to attain its fully functional state .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an igg isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an igg isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and present in the extracellular space ,  in mucosal areas or other tissues ,  or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igd isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igd isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and present in the extracellular space ,  in mucosal areas or other tissues ,  or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the ige isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the ige isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and present in the extracellular space ,  in mucosal areas or other tissues ,  or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the iga isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and sometimes complexed with j chain or j chain and secretory component .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of an iga isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  sometimes complexed with j chain or j chain and secretory component ,  and present in the extracellular space ,  in mucosal areas or other tissues ,  or circulating in the blood or lymph .
a protein complex composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igm isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ,  and in its circulating form complexed with j chain in polymeric forms .
a polymer of five or six igm core units each composed of two identical immunoglobulin heavy chains of the igm isotype and two identical immunoglobulin light chains ,  held together by disulfide bonds ;  the individual igm core units are held together via disulfide bonds with a single j chain polypeptide acting as a bridge between two of the polymeric units .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
any apoptotic process in a leukocyte ,  an achromatic cell of the myeloid or lymphoid lineages capable of ameboid movement ,  found in blood or other tissue .
the part of a cell encompassing the cell cortex ,  the plasma membrane ,  and any external encapsulating structures .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an epithelial tube .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monocarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing one carboxyl  (  - cooh )  group .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving dicarboxylic acids ,  any organic acid containing three carboxyl  ( cooh )  groups or anions  ( coo -  )  .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of the circulatory system over time ,  from its formation to the mature structure .
a response to a stimulus that consists of a sequential series of modifications to a set of proteins where the product of one reaction acts catalytically in the following reaction .
a protein activation cascade that contributes to blood coagulation and consists of events leading from the formation of activated factor x to the formation of active thrombin ,  the cleavage of fibrinogen by thrombin ,  and the formation of cleaved fibrin into a stable multimeric ,  cross - linked complex .
a protein activation cascade that contributes to blood coagulation and consists of the cascade of enzymatic reactions initiated by physical damage to the wall of a blood vessel ,  leading to the formation of a formation of a fibrin clot at the site of the injury .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations at the level of a cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of trivalent inorganic anions within an organism or cell .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of divalent cations within an organism or cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a purine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a pyrimidine - containing compound ,  i .e .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a reactive oxygen species ,  any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to stress .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process in which mitochondrial dna and associated proteins are formed into a compact ,  orderly structure .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of cholesterol metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving cholesterol ,  cholest - 5 - en - 3 beta - ol ,  the principal sterol of vertebrates and the precursor of many steroids ,  including bile acids and steroid hormones .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a muscle system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by any of the organs or tissues in a muscle system .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the regulated release of a peptide hormone from secretory granules .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the series of events that restore integrity to a damaged tissue ,  following an injury .
any cellular metabolic process involving nucleic acids .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of superoxide metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving superoxide ,  the superoxide anion o2 -   ( superoxide free radical )  ,  or any compound containing this species .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving tryptophan ,  the chiral amino acid 2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving tryptophan ,  the chiral amino acid 2 - amino - 3 -  ( 1h - indol - 3 - yl ) propanoic acid .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving ornithine ,  an amino acid only rarely found in proteins ,  but which is important in living organisms as an intermediate in the reactions of the urea cycle and in arginine biosynthesis .
the immediate defensive reaction by vertebrate tissue to injury caused by chemical or physical agents .
all of the contents of a cilium ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the cilium .
a specialized area of membrane on either the presynaptic or the postsynaptic side of a synapse ,  the junction between a nerve fiber of one neuron and another neuron or muscle fiber or glial cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
the process whose specific outcome is the formation of tooth enamel ,  occurring in two stages: secretory stage and maturation stage .
the entire complement of dendrites for a neuron ,  consisting of each primary dendrite and all its branches .
any process involved in the controlled movement of a sperm cell .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of another organism that act to protect the cell or organism from damage caused by that organism .
a membrane that is a  ( regional )  part of the plasma membrane .
the attachment of one cell to another cell via adhesion molecules .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on a cell surface to an adhesion molecule on another cell surface ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell .
the binding by a cell - adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component ,  to mediate adhesion of the cell to another cell .
the process in which an anion is transported across a membrane .
any process involved in the maintenance of an internal steady state of inorganic ions within an organism or cell .
any protein complex that is part of a membrane .
any protein complex that is part of the plasma membrane .
a protein complex that is part of a mitochondrion .
any protein complex that is part of the inner mitochondrial membrane .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a system process ,  a multicellular organismal process carried out by the renal system .
any protein complex that is part of a respiratory chain .
the process in which genetic material ,  in the form of nuclear chromosomes ,  is organized into specific structures and then physically separated and apportioned to two or more sets .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of action potential creation ,  propagation or termination .
cell - cell signaling from pre to post - synapse ,  across the synaptic cleft .
any vesicle - mediated transport that occurs in a synapse .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of trans - synaptic signaling .
cell - cell signaling to ,  from or within a synapse .
cell - cell signaling in either direction across the synaptic cleft .
cell - cell signaling between presynapse and postsynapse ,  across the synaptic cleft ,  that modulates the synaptic transmission properties of the synapse .
any  ( proper )  part of the cytoplasm of a single cell of sufficient size to still be considered cytoplasm .
any signal release from a synapse .
the complete extent of cell cortex that underlies some some region of the plasma membrane .
any action potential process that regulates skeletal muscle contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the inflammatory response to wounding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving cobalamin  ( vitamin b12 )  ,  a water - soluble vitamin characterized by possession of a corrin nucleus containing a cobalt atom .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cobalamin metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
the process where mineral crystals are formed and deposited in an organized fashion in a matrix  ( either cellular or extracellular )  by living organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineralization ,  the formation and deposition of mineral crystals by living organisms .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineralization ,  the formation and deposition of mineral crystals by living organisms .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of biomineralization ,  the formation and deposition of mineral crystals by living organisms .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
a prolongation or process extending from a cell and that is bounded by plasma membrane ,  e .g .
contractions of the intestinal tract that include peristalsis  ( moving contents onward )  and non - peristaltic movement  ( moving contents back and forth )  .
all of the contents of a plasma membrane bounded neuron projection ,  excluding the plasma membrane surrounding the projection .
the directed movement of some substance from a cell ,  into the extracellular region .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of a symbiont that act to protect the cell or organism from damage caused by that symbiont .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cholesterol esterification .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemostasis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuromuscular synaptic transmission .
any regulation of signal transduction that takes place in the extracellular region .
any negative regulation of signal transduction that takes place in extracellular region .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization involved in bone maturation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization involved in bone maturation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone mineralization involved in bone maturation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defense response to bacterium .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of purine nucleotide metabolic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving sarcosine .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving carbohydrate derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of carbohydrate derivative .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic cyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic cyclic compound .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of tetrapyrrole biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acid derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fatty acid derivative .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an alpha - amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of organic hydroxy compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving glycosyl compound .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of platelet aggregation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vitamin a metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of mitochondrial dna metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte differentiation .
any nucleotide phosphorylation that is involved in dna repair .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving erythrose 4 - phosphate / phosphoenolpyruvate family amino acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving ketone body .
any apoptotic process that is involved in blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in morphogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
a protein complex which is capable of catalytic activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving secondary alcohol .
any apoptotic process that is involved in anatomical structure development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of bone development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of glycoprotein metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to wounding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte cell - cell adhesion .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a mononuclear cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving liposaccharide .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving mucopolysaccharide .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood circulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secretion by cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of atp metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hemopoiesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of plasma membrane organization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of beta - galactosidase activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of beta - galactosidase activity .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of respiratory gaseous exchange .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of respiratory gaseous exchange .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transmembrane transport .
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake or the frequency of intake or preference or manner of intake of food ."
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of eating behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vasculature development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein o - linked glycosylation .
any cytoplasm that is part of a axon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastro - intestinal system smooth muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastro - intestinal system smooth muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of gastro - intestinal system smooth muscle contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction involved in micturition .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction involved in micturition .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of smooth muscle contraction involved in micturition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of small intestine smooth muscle contraction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of small intestine smooth muscle contraction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of small intestine smooth muscle contraction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intestinal absorption .
the process in which glucose is transported across a membrane .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of apoptotic process involved in development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane lipid metabolic process .
any cell surface receptor signaling pathway that is involved in cell - cell signaling .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of epithelial tube formation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of morphogenesis of an epithelium .
any intracellular signal transduction that is involved in positive regulation of cell growth .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of saliva secretion .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome condensation .
a protein complex capable of catalyzing the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
a process in which force is generated within smooth muscle tissue ,  resulting in a change in muscle geometry in the intestine between the stomach and the large intestine .
a spherical particle containing non - covalently associated proteins and lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of multicellular organismal development .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of animal organ morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of leukocyte apoptotic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular macromolecule biosynthetic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood vessel morphogenesis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of proline metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of feeding behavior .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein activation cascade .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  common pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  common pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  common pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  extrinsic pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  extrinsic pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  extrinsic pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  intrinsic pathway .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  intrinsic pathway .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of blood coagulation ,  intrinsic pathway .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of defecation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reactive oxygen species metabolic process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of response to dna damage stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of neuron migration .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of chromosome organization .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
temporal interval that defines human life from the prenatal stage until late adulthood .
prenatal stage that starts with fertilization and ends with a fully formed embryo ,  before undergoing last development during the fetal stage .
prenatal stage that starts with the fully formed embryo and ends at birth .
prenatal stage that starts with fertilization and ends at birth .
human developmental stage that covers the period from birth until 12 years old .
immature stage that refers to child who is over 2 and under 13 years old .
immature stage that refers to a newborn who is under 32 days old .
immature stage that refers to an infant who is over 31 days and is under 24 months old .
mature stage that refers to an adolescent who is over 13 and under 19 years old .
human developmental stage that refers to an adult who is over 19 .
adult stage that refers to an adult who is under 45 .
early adulthood that refers to an adult who is under 25 .
adult stage that refers to an adult who is over 45 .
late adulthood that refers to an adult who is over 45 and under 65 .
human developmental stage that refers to a sexually mature human .
pathological structure or process
the sum of morphological and functional disturbances induced by cell and tissue damage ,  either from intrinsic gene dysfunction or as a result of external factors .
phenotypic observation of the presence or absence of a pathological entity .
lesions leading to or consequent on failure of ,  or atypical movement of ,  blood throughout the body .
abnormal release of whole blood or the cellular component from the circulation .
an area of necrosis resulting from a sudden cessation of arterial or venous blood supply .
defects in growth  ( changes in proliferation or mass )  and differentiation of cells tissues or organs .
a pathological process of loss or degradation of function ,  or structural integrity ,  of a tissue ,  organ or cell .
benign proliferation of epidermal cells with hyperkeratosis .
the process ,  normal or abnormal ,  of damage repair or wound closure .
replacement of connective tissue by fibro - fatty deposits and scar tissue .
any pathological thickening or hardening of a tissue .
inappropriate or aberrant activation or suppression of the immune or inflammatory response .
tissue response to inappropriate immune / inflammatory process .
inflammation of the skin .
an anemic / erythrocytopenic condition resulting from an increased rate of immune mediated erythrocyte destruction .
a tissue reaction to an internal or external injury .
degenerative process characteristic of a particular tissue .
tumors showing multiple histological componants / differentiation .
neoplasms derived from glandular epithelial cells .
changes characterized by erosion of articular cartilage ,  either primary or secondary to trauma or other conditions .
a benign epithelial neoplasm in which the tumor cells may form glands or glandlike structures .
usually pancreatic b cell derived tumors mostly producing insulin .
germ cell and non - germ cell tumors of the testis and ovary .
abnormal accumulation of air in the interstitial connective tissue of a structure .
neoplasms derived from germ cells .
accumulation of substances within ,  on the surface of or between cells .
proliferative disorders and malignancies of the lymphoid and non lymphoid haematopoietic lineages .
extracellular deposition of amyloid protein .
leukaemias of the myeloid lineage .
intra or extracellular deposition of calcium usually as calcium phosphate .
neoplasm arising from the tissues of the odontogenic apparatus .
neoplasms of the soft and connective tissues .
neoplasms resembling primitive mesenchymal tissue with a soft mucous matrix .
dilation of a tubular structure .
neoplasms of non - lymphoid haematopoietic lineage .
leukaemia in which neoplastic cells are poorly or moderately differentiated with a monocytic but no neutrophilic component .
hematological neoplasias of non - lymphoid origin .
developmental and structural abnormalities occurring during embryonic development or during adult life .
deposition of any homogeneous inorganic material .
lesions which in some cases have the potential to become progressively growing malignant tumors .
structural ,  physical or other general defect of prenatal development of the embryo and the placenta ,  or such as are acquired in the adult .
loss of epithelium and the basement membrane  ( full thickness )  .
the organic response of tissues to external insult ,  injury or underlying genetic or epigenetic lesion .
processes occurring during cell and tissue damage of either intrinsic or extrinsic etiology .
developmental process abnormalities
an organ or a tissue with an abnormal increase in the number of cells as a consequence of cell proliferation .
anatomically located instance of pathological response or entity .
physical entity or structure associated with normal or abnormal tissue healing or repair following extrinsic or intrinsic damage .
a circumscribed collection of purulent exudate frequently associated with swelling and other signs of inflammation .
formation of an epithelium bounded cavity not associated with neoplasia .
abnormal retention of lipids within a cell .
abnormal development  ( of organs or tissues )  or an abnormal structure resulting from such growth .
a blind ended outpouching through the wall of a tubular organ or bounded cavity .
an abnormal passage between two internal organs or leading from a cavity to the body surface .
generally benign germ cell derived tumors of male or female containing derivatives from all three germ layers with differentiation in the malignant form being poor .
developmental defect characteristic of a particular organ or organ system which may be a recognised syndrome or a complex defect showing multiple manifestations .
abnormal development of the heart or vascular tissue resulting in morphological abnormality .
localised dilation of an artery or heart chamber usually due to an acquired or congenital weakness of the wall of the artery or chamber .
a change of place or position of part of an organism that does not involve the entire organism  [ nbo:smac ] 
"behavior related to the complex psychophysiological experience of an individual's state of mind as interacting with biochemical  ( internal )  and environmental  ( external )  influences ."
"behavior related to the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time ."
"observable characteristic of behavior associated with the specific movement from place to place of an organism ."
"a behavior that occurs predominantly or only ,  in individuals that are part of a group ."
"emotional behavior related to fear or anxiety ."
"behavior related to the readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals ."
"an uncontrolled ,  paroxysmal neuronal discharge in any part of the brain ;  it may cause physical or mental symptoms and may be convulsive or nonconvulsive"  [ nbo:gvg ] 
a behavior that occurs between two individuals ,  such as parent and child ,  and involves an emotional attachment that implies a special and focused relationship .
"specific actions of a newborn or infant mammal that result in the derivation of nourishment from the breast ."
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake or the frequency of intake or preference or manner of intake of liquids ."
a very broad category including the partial or complete performance of adult functional behaviors in non - functional contexts ,  as well as interactive behaviors peculiar to immature animals  [ nbo:ac ] 
"emotional behavior related to a state of low mood  and aversion to activity ."
"behavior related to the exploration / investigation of a novel object ,  situation or environment ."
"an emotional behavior related to a feeling of uneasiness or nervousness triggered by a specified triggering stimulus such as pain or the threat of danger ."
"an emotional behavior related to a feeling of uneasiness or nervousness triggered by an identifiable triggering stimulus ."
"an emotional behavior related to a feeling of uneasiness or nervousness in respect to a particular situation or environment ."
"a phobia characterised by fear of open spaces ."
"behavior related to the exploration / investigation of a novel environment ."
"a behavior that occur quickly without control ,  planning ,  or consideration of the consequences of that behavior ."
"an aggressive behavior that aims to inflicting damage on another entity using physical means ."
"behavior characterized by a quick excitability to annoyance ,  impatience ,  or anger ."
"emotional behavior related to excitement or restlessness ."
"a behavior associated with the intake of liquid ."
"a feeding behavior associated with the intake of food ."
"duration of rem sleep ."
"behavior related with the ability of an organism's ability to store ,  retain ,  and recall information and experiences ."
"observable characteristic of behavior related to the awareness of body balance and movement ."
"behavior related to the tendency of an organism to maintain internal equilibrium ."
"an observable characteristic of the behavior of an organism ."
"a pathological anxiety characterized by fear or anxiety triggered by a specific stimulus or situation ."
"a pathological anxiety primarily characterized by repetitive obsessions  ( distressing ,  persistent ,  and intrusive thoughts or images )  and compulsions  ( urges to perform specific acts or rituals )  ."
"a mood disorder formerly characterised by alternating periods of mania and depression  ( and in some cases rapid cycling ,  mixed states ,  and psychotic symptoms )  ."
"observable characteristic of behaviour related to cognitive processes ."
"observable characteristic of behavior associated with the intake of food or liquids ."
"behavior related with the gradual loss of information and experiences stored in the memory of an organism ."
"cognitive perception of a sensation by any of the five senses  -  -  vision ,  touch ,  smell ,  taste ,  and hearing ."
"the action ,  reaction ,  or performance of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
"behavior related to the awareness of body balance and movement ."
"behavior related to the sensations arising from the skin and from the muscles ,  tendons ,  and joints ."
"movement behavior of the body or its parts ."
"the coordination of combinations of body movements created with the kinematic  ( such as spatial direction )  and kinetic  ( force )  parameters that result in intended actions ."
"behavior related to movements that occur independent of planning ."
"behavior related to involuntary movement in response to a stimulus ."
"behavior related to movements executed with intent ."
"a reflex that involves cranial nerves ."
"a reflex eye movement that stabilizes images on the retina during head movement by producing an eye movement in the direction opposite to head movement ,  thus preserving the image on the center of the visual field ."
"a form of involuntary eye movement that is part of the vestibulo - ocular reflex  ( vor )  .
"observable characteristic of behavior related to the readily reversible state of reduced awareness and metabolic activity that occurs periodically in many animals ."
"selectively track a moving object ."
"the sustained focus of cognitive resources on information while filtering or ignoring extraneous information .
"behavior related to how the body reacts to a stressor  (  a stimulus that causes stress )  ,  real or imagined ."
"a type of parasomnia that occurs during nrem sleep ."
"observable characteristic of feeding behavior that relates to eating ."
"observable characteristic of feeding behavior that relates to drinking ."
"a pathological drinking behavior characterised by an excessive desire to drink ."
"a pathological drinking behavior characterised by an excessive relative temporal desire to drink ."
"a pathological feeding behavior characterised by failure to eat ."
"observable characteristic of behavior that occurs predominantly or only ,  in individuals that are part of a group ."
"a pathological behavior associated with repetitive or ritualistic movement ,  posture ,  or utterance ."
"observable characteristic of behavior related to the movement of the body's muscles ,  tendons ,  and joints ."
"a form of tetanic spasm in which the head ,  neck and spine are bent backward and the body is bowed forward ."
"a sudden ,  involuntary contraction of a muscle or group of muscles associated with strychnine poisoning and tetanus ."
"a sudden ,  involuntary contraction of a muscle or group of muscles ."
"observable characteristic of behavior related to the coordination of combinations of body movements created with the kinematic  ( such as spatial direction )  and kinetic  ( force )  parameters that result in intended actions ."
"observable characteristic of behavior related to the complex psychophysiological experience of an individual's state of mind as interacting with biochemical  ( internal )  and environmental  ( external )  influences ."
"exhibiting indifference ,  or suppression of emotions such as concern ,  excitement ,  motivation and passion ."
"a belief that is either mistaken or not substantiated that is held with vehemence ."
"a social behavior characterised by conscious or unconscious constraint of a behavior that might be considered objectionable in a social setting ."
"a social behavior characterised by conscious or unconscious constraint or curtailment of behavior relating to specific sexual matters or practices ."
"loss of information already encoded and stored in an individual's long term memory ."
"behaviour related to cognitive processes ."
"perception in the absence of a stimulus ."
"a social behavior related to the activity of conveying information ."
"communication behavior related to the process of conveying meaning in the form of non - word messages through for example gesture ,  body language or posture ;  facial expression and eye contact etc ."
"a nonverbal communication behavior that is characterised by the meeting the eyes between two individuals ."
"an emotional behavior that arises from the perceived resistance to the fulfillment of individual will ."
"a communication disorder in which a person ,  most often a child ,  who is normally capable of speech is unable to speak in given situations ,  or to specific people ."
"two or more unprovoked recurrent seizures ."
"observable characteristic of behavior related to movements that occur independent of planning ."
"observable characteristic of behavior related to movements executed with intent ."
"a seizure which affect only a part of the brain at onset ."
"a partial seizure which affect only a small region of the brain ,  often the temporal lobes and / or hippocampi whilst consciousness is unaffected ."
"a seizure that is associated with bilateral cerebral hemisphere involvement and causes impairment of awareness or responsiveness ,  i .e .
"a simple partial seizure affecting the kinesthetic behavior ."
"observable characteristic of behavior related any of the five senses  -  -  vision ,  touch ,  smell ,  taste ,  and hearing ."
"a phenotype manifested by a behavior related to the sensations arising from the skin and from the muscles ,  tendons ,  and joints ."
"a seizure which affect the whole of the brain at onset ."
"an absence seizure is a brief  ( usually less that 20 seconds )  ,  generalized epileptic seizure of sudden onset and termination ."
"a type of generalized seizure characterised by a combination of tonic stiffening  ( extensions )  followed by clonic flexion motions ."
"a type of seizure associated with a significant rise in body temperature ."
"paroxysmal events that mimic an epileptic seizure but do not involve abnormal ,  rhythmic discharges of cortical neurons ."
"a type of seizure induced by lower than normal level of blood glucose levels ."
"a simple partial seizure affecting the kinesthetic behavior of one side of the body ."
"a type of seizure induced by lower than normal level of blood calcium levels ."
"a type of seizure induced by exposure to a light stimulus ."
"a type of epilepsy that is characterised a sudden burst of energy ,  usually in the form of laughing ."
"a type of epilepsy that is characterised a sudden paroxysmal crying ."
"observable characteristic of behavior related to the stage in the circadian sleep cycle during which dreams occur and the body undergoes marked changes including rapid eye movement ,  loss of reflexes ,  and increased pulse rate and brain activity ."
"observable characteristic of behaviour related to the acquisition and processing of information and / or the storage and retrieval of this information over time ."
"observable characteristic of behaviour related to the ability of an organism's ability to store ,  retain ,  and recall information and experiences ."
"behavior related to the intake of substances ."
"any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of consumption behavior ,  the specific actions or reactions of an organism in response to external or internal stimuli ."
"a pathological drinking behavior characterised by a lack of desire to drink ."
a test that uses high - frequency sound waves  ( ultrasound )  to create an image of the heart .
imaging that uses radiofrequency waves and a strong magnetic field rather than x - rays to provide detailed pictures of internal organs and tissues .
a method of examining structures within the body by scanning them with x rays and using a computer to construct a series of cross - sectional scans along a single axis .
any procedure or test to diagnose a disease or disorder .
a procedure that displays the electrical activity of the heart .
an x - ray examination of the chest .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a composite chromatic quality composed of hue ,  saturation and intensity parts .
a scalar optical property that is the intensity ,  value or amount of perceived light .
a scalar chromatic property that is the degree of purity of perceived light .
a single physical entity inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's quantities or relative ratios of subparts .
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to undergo sexual reproduction in order to differentiate the individuals or types involved .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to pressure ,  being broken ,  or pierced
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's possessing or displaying a distinctive feature in type or degree or effect or force .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ratios of distances between its features  ( points ,  edges ,  surfaces and also holes etc )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement or variation characterized by the regular recurrence or alternation of different quantities or conditions .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the repetitiveness of bearer's rhythm .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to detect or perceive external stimulation .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical magnitude .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's vertical dimension of extension .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance between two points .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the proportion of the bearer's amount of matter .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement which is defined by the angle between the bearer and an axis ,  or the angle between the bearer and another object .
a morphological quality pertaining to the degree to which an object contains an opening ,  aperture ,  orifice or vent .
a morphology quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative position ,  shape ,  arrangements and connectivity of an organism's various parts ;  the pattern underlying its form .
a morphologic quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's relative size ,  organization and distribution of its surface elements or the representation or invention of the appearance of its surface ;  visual and tactile surface characteristics .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's behavior aggregate of the responses or reactions or movements in a given situation .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or lacking skillful and effective interaction of movement .
a reproductive quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a mobility quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to move freely .
a color hue with low wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between green and indigo ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 420 to 490 nanometers .
a color consisting of green and blue hue .
a color hue with medium - low wavelength of that portion of the visible spectrum lying between yellow and blue ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 490 to 570 nanometers .
a color hue with high wavelength of the long - wave end of the visible spectrum ,  evoked in the human observer by radiant energy with wavelengths of approximately 630 to 750 nanometers .
an achromatic color of maximum brightness ;  the color of objects that reflect nearly all light of all visible wavelengths .
a color saturation which is of low purity .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of or the relationships between its repeated parts lack consistency .
a frequency which is relatively high .
a frequency which is relatively low .
a hardness quality of being rigid and resistant to pressure .
a hardness quality of giving little resistance to pressure .
an intensity which is less than moderate in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is less than extreme in type or degree or effect or force .
an intensity which is extremely bad or unpleasant in type or degree or effect or force .
a branchiness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having branches .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a groove or fissure .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curled or wound  ( especially in concentric rings or spirals )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having parallel chains in undulate fashion on the border .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having or being marked by a curve or smoothly rounded bend .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a horizontal surface without a slope ,  tilt ,  or curvature .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being such that every part of the surface or the circumference is equidistant from the center .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an equal - sided rectangular form .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a repeatable or predictable placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a quality of a process which starts later than the natural start time or the reference process .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having sensitivity toward an external stimulus .
a photosensitivity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting photosensitivity .
a height which is relatively low .
a height which is relatively high .
a length quality which is relatively large .
a length quality which is relatively small .
an increased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting enlargement of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced size of a cell or constituent group of cells  ( for example ,  organ )  .
a size quality which is relatively high .
a size quality which is relatively low .
a thickness which is relatively high .
a thickness which is relatively low .
a volume which is relatively high .
a volume which is relatively low .
a width which is relatively small .
a width which is relatively large .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording not completed blocked passage or view .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's affording unobstructed passage or view .
a pattern where all the repeated elements are oriented in the same direction .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking symmetry .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more angle ( s )  in its length .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being overfilled .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's protruding or projecting from the body .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being reversed in position ,  order ,  or condition .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in abnormal position .
a symmetry quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being capable of division by a longitudinal plane into similar halves .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being confined or restricted to a particular location .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer whose structure deteriorates or is lost over time due to an active pathological process .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting an alteration in size ,  shape or organization of its constituent cells .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being merged with another entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's bodily structure that has protruded through an abnormal opening in the wall that contains it .
a increased size quality inhering in an organ or tissue by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting increased number of cells .
a decreased size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced number of cells within an organ or tissue .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted during formation .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's undergoing unprogrammed cell death .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being blocked or filled with obstacles or an obstacle .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being no longer merged with another entity .
a color brightness which is relatively high .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not occurring or existing at the same time or having the same period or phase .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being uninterrupted in time ,  sequence ,  substance ,  or extent .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's origin or development at an unusual time or out of the regular sequence .
a quality of a process which starts earlier than the natural start time or the reference process .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's irregular surface .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processing a surface free of roughness or irregularities .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting increased activity .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting reduced activity .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being affected by loss of the ability to move a body part .
a male fertility quality inhering in a male by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a female fertility quality inhering in a female by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the dimension through an object as opposed to its length or width .
a 3 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of 3 - dimensional space it occupies .
a 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the distance from one side of an object to another side which is opposite .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being sensitivity to the action of radiant energy .
a structural quality inhering in a cytoplasm that contains fluid filled cavities .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sharp or tapered end or point .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a somewhat elongated form with approximately parallel sides .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval with two axes of symmetry ,  as produced by a conical section .
a color between white and black colors .
a fertility quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being incapable of initiating ,  sustaining ,  or supporting reproduction .
an optical quality which obtains by virtue of the ability of the bearer to absorb visible light .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being clear ;  not transmitting or reflecting light or radiant energy .
a pattern quality of inhering in a bearer by virtue of the correspondence in size ,  shape ,  and relative position of the bearer's parts on opposite sides of a dividing line or median plane or about a center or axis .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a sinuate margin and rippled surface .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally small .
a quality of a physical entity that exists through action of continuants at the physical level of organisation in relation to other entities .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of some influence is exerted by the bearer's mass per unit size .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer has been harmed or injured or spoiled .
a physical quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's amount of force per unit area it exerts .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
a quality inhering in an entity by virtue of the bearer's propensity to resist an external stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to resist to a stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having susceptibilty toward an external stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's length being notably higher than its width .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a physical quality which inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting density .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer being harmed or injured or spoiled ,  such that its functionality is impaired .
an elasticity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to recover its size and shape after deformation in any way .
a resistance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to a stimulus .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located more centrally than another entity .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter y .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's power or force .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a physical quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with electromagnetic radiation .
an em radiation quality in which the em radiation is within the fiat range of the spectrum visible deemed to be light .
an optical quality that is the mixture ,  purity or pattern of wavelengths of light perceived by the observer .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to varying or changing .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a length quality which is equal to the length of any straight line segment that passes through the center of a circle and whose endpoints are on the circular boundary .
a optical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting low opacity .
a shape quality that obtains by virtue of the bearer having inward facing edges ;  having a surface or boundary that curves or bulges outward ,  as the exterior of a sphere .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being easily damaged or destroyed .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a long tapered rod .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's ability to produce new life or offspring .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having connection or association with another entity .
a contractile quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's elastic tension that facilitate response to stimuli .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer includes all its components .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's components no longer being in a single contiguous unit .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's being encrusted or impregnated with calcium carbonate  ( chebi:3311 )  .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's cartilage quantities .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter exhibits an excessive accumulation of extracellular fluid .
an attachment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking connection or association with another entity .
a quality of a process inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to respond to stimulation .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the back or upper surface of an organism .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the abdomen of an organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude in respect to a related entity .
a depth which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in two copies .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's axis being positioned forward .
a position which is relatively high .
a positional which is relatively low .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn in or pulled back from any given point .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having an oblique or slanted direction .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's standing out or projecting beyond a surface or line .
absence of an organ ,  tissue or cell due to failure to develop from a primordium or precursor cell .
a cellular quality inhering in a cell by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to move spontaneously .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape being a v - shaped cut .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a ball  ( a sphere whose equatorial diameter is equal to the polar diameter )  .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being gradually narrower or thinner toward one end .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being in contact with another entity ,  or of no longer being connected or joined with another entity .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being interrupted of its normal course .
a quality of a single physical entity that arises by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits the ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a disfunctional quality held by the bearer when the latter is unable to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a pattern inhering in a surface by virtue of the bearer's being marked by the presence of dots ,  punctures ,  points or pits .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's inability of being turned ,  bowed ,  or twisted without breaking .
a physical quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting the physical characteristics of an entity characterized by particles arranged such that their shape and volume are relatively stable .
a physical quality inhering in an entity exhibiting the physical characteristics of an amorphous  ( non - crystalline )  form of matter between a gas and a solid that has a definite volume ,  but no definite shape .
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is higher than normal / average .
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is lower than normal / average .
a sensitivity of a process which is higher than normal or average .
a sensitivity of a process which is lower than normal or average .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a functionality quality which is held by the bearer when the latter is able to perform additional or different function ( s )  .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having additional processual parts .
a mass which is lower than normal or average .
a mass which is higher than normal or average .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being made wider or larger in all dimensions .
a pressure which is relatively low .
a pressure which is relatively high .
a physical quality that is the ability to contract or shrink .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's coinciding spatially ,  partially or wholly with another entity .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a degree of bending .
a curvature which is relatively high .
a curvature which is relatively low .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming or resembling an arch .
a 1 - d extent quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's downward or backward or inward dimenision .
a depth quality which is relatively high .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being turned outward in placement .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond a surface or boundary .
an oriented quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being relocated around an axis .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the rear of organism .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally expanded or increased in size .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by ,  consisting of ,  or diversified with patches .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being scattered ;  spread irregularly ,  and at a distance from each other .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being distorted in form .
a tonicity which is relatively high .
a tonicity which is relatively low .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of a part or parts of the bearer's being decreased in size due to reduction in tissue mass through wasting .
a functionality quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits decreased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a functional quality held by the bearer when the latter exhibits increased ability to perform a regular function ( s )  .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer has enough functionality .
a wholeness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacks enough functionality .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary into the surface or boundary of another entity .
a quality inhering into a bearer by virtue of the bearer's extending out above or beyond its surface or boundary and outwards in relation to the physical space occupied by another entity .
an 1 - d extent quality which is equal to the length of the closed curve of a circle .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved towards the side .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively high .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively low .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
an alignment quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in a improper spatial positioning with respect to an additional entity .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to being damaged or destroyed .
a susceptibility toward an external stimulus which is higher than normal / average .
a susceptibility toward an external stimulus which is lower than normal / average .
structure quality that is the presence of closed epithelium bounded capsules containing one or more liquid or solid organism substances .
a photosensitivity which is relatively low .
a photosensitivity which is relatively high .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting marked activity .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in one dimension .
a size quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the bearer's extension in three dimensions .
an 1 - d extent quality inhering in two - dimensional bearer by virtue of being equal to the distance around it .
a perimeter which is relatively high .
a perimeter which is relatively low .
a diameter which is relatively large .
a diameter which is relatively small .
a quality that inheres in an bearer by virtue of how that bearer interacts with radiation .
a strength which is relatively high .
a strength which is relatively low .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormally developed ,  usually due to malnutrition .
an intensity which is relatively high .
an intensity which is relatively low .
a branched quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into two branches .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outward .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided or broken up into parts or divisions .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved around an axis .
a density which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a density which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being located on right side of a another entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being wound in a continuous series of loops .
a coiling which is relatively high .
a coiling which is relatively low .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the quantities or relative ratios of water of the inhering entity .
a composition quality inhering in an bearer by virtue of the reduction in amount of water the bearer contains .
a pattern quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being compact or dense in arrangement .
a grooved texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by one or more creases in a normally smooth surface .
a strength quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to lose strength .
a fatigability which is relatively high .
a morphological quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's absence or closure of a normal body orifice or tubular passage .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no opening .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer's being covered by a liquid .
a wetness quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not being covered by a liquid .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population by virtue of having internal reproductive organs of one sex and external sexual characteristics of the other sex .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population by virtue of having internal reproductive organs of male and external sexual characteristics of female .
a biological sex quality inhering in an individual or a population by virtue of having internal reproductive organs of female and external sexual characteristics of male .
a rhythm quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking rhythm lacking pattern .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being drawn together ,  compressed or squeezed physically .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved asymmetrically .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being fibrous tissue that replaces normal tissue destroyed by injury or disease .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting transient abnormal enlargement ,  not due to cell proliferation .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being out of its usual or proper place ,  or position .
a spatial pattern inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being situated at right angles to the horizon .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being in the plane of the horizon .
a shape quality in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a quadric surface in three dimensions obtained by rotating an ellipse about one of its principal axes .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being abnormal and having a destructive effect on living tissue .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resemblance to a cube  ( a 3 - d shape with a square cross section )  .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a consistently - sized round cross section .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being cylindrical ,  in which the height is less than the diameter .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having three angles .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two parts ,  roughly spherical and of equal size ,  connected by a bar .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of two curves ,  in opposite directions .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being shaped in the form of the letter u .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's gradually becoming thicker towards the end .
a concave 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being divided into three branches .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting a continuous convex surface with an axis of symmetry and one axis longer than the other ;  egg - shaped .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's physical expression of sexual characteristics .
a circumference which is relatively high .
a circumference which is relatively low .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
a surface feature shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's one part being layered over another connected part .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the back or upper surface of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the front of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the rear of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards the side of an organism .
a surface shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's shape of features present on its surface or outer shell .
a texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of a local accumulation of fluid underneath the surface of the bearer .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oblong ,  with the lower end very much attenuated .
a spheroid quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being oval and a little angular in the middle .
a size quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being many folds greater relative to the normal average .
a grooved texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked by two or more parallel channels .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being narrowly triangular ,  wider at the apex and tapering toward the base .
a variability quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of whether the bearer exhibits size variation or change .
a variability of size which is relatively low .
a variability of size which is relatively high .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being tapering gradually into a rigid point .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having at least one salient angle on the margin .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a three dimensional cavity with a narrow or no opening ,  and often containing an anatomical substance .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having four angles and four sides .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
surface shape that refers to the inward or outward curvature of the surface .
a shape that inheres in a 2 dimensional entity ,  such as a cross section or projection of a 3 dimensional entity .
a complete three dimensional shape in which for every line connecting pair of points on the object is within the object .
a complete three dimensional shape in which there is a line connecting pair of points on the object that lies outside the object .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which there are subdivisions or offshoots in a bearer entity .
a structural quality which is held by a bearer when the latter's disposition the presence of abnormally proliferating masses of cells .
a structural quality that inheres in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's containing hollow areas .
a convex 3 - d shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resembling a cone  ( a 3 - d shape with a round cross section that tapers )  .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's not increasing over time .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being unseparated into parts or divisions .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting deterioration of its structure .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's curving inward on both sides or surfaces .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being convex on both sides or surface .
a diameter that is along the anterior - posterior axis .
an anterior - posterior diameter quality which is relatively small .
an anterior - posterior diameter quality which is relatively large .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being a quadrilateral with two parallel sides .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved around an axis and towards the side .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
a fragility which is relatively high .
a fragility which is relatively low .
a behavioral quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's movement .
having extra or fewer parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being short and wide and tapered distally .
a structure quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's body containing more than one cyst  -  formations of an epithelium bounded cavity not associated with neoplasia .
a volume quality inhering in a degenerating cell by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting an increase in volume associated with cytoplasmic abnormalities .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition not to progress ,  invade surrounding tissues or metastasize .
a disposition inhering in a tumour by virtue of the bearer's disposition to progress ,  invade surrounding tissues or metastasize .
a structural quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having a hole or holes ,  especially a row or array of small holes .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being present in more than two copies .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's delay to complete the closure of the opening of an anatomical entity .
a density quality which lacks pattern .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer exhibiting increased density resulting in exhibiting increased degree of radiopacity  ( in x - rays )  .
a curvature quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being curved outwards the abdomen of an organism .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the middle of an organism .
a rotation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of being rotated towards the side of an organism .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being slightly out of its usual or proper place ,  or position .
having two horns or horn - shaped branches .
a concave quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's forming or resembling an arch of an increased apical height .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's bodily structure that has protruded through an abnormal opening in the wall that contains it into the surface or boundary of another entity .
to bent or hang downwards .
a duration quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's premature completion of the closure of the opening of an anatomical entity .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being split along the median axis .
a spatial quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards another entity .
a deviation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards the side .
a deviation quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's changed direction of position towards the middle .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being positioned towards to point of attachment or origin .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being free of curves ,  bends ,  or angles .
a positional quality inhering in a bearer by virtue the bearer's being changed in position .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of its constitution .
a shape quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being small or narrow in circumference or width in proportion to length or height .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's surface becoming more extended in a plane .
texture quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's being marked with one or more channels .
a cuscpidate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing more than one cusp .
a behavioral quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to exhibit marked activity .
a shape that inheres in a 3 dimensional entity .
a structural quality of the collection or massing of one physical object within another physical object .
an increased number of physical objects that are accumulated within another physical object usually as a result of a failure to break down or remove objects in a timely manner .
a cuscpidate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer possessing two cusps .
a mobility which is relative high .
a mobility which is relative low .
an elasticity which is relatively high .
an elasticity which is relatively low .
absence of a tissue or organ due to failure to develop .
a cellular motility which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a cellular motility which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a convex quadrilateral is a parallelogram if and only if any one of the following statements are true: 1 .
a shape constituting a transition between a rectangle and a circle ;  a closed curve ,  of which the circle and ellipse are special cases ,  whose parametric equation is x = a .cos2 / rt ,  y = b .cos2 / rt
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
the temporal relation between the start of the process with respect to a reference process .
an orientation inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's placement at an angle .
an angle which is relatively high .
an angle which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's width being notably higher than its length .
having a spindle - like shape that is wide in the middle and tapers at both ends .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
absence due to a degenerative process .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the degree to which the bearers stands out or projects beyond a surface or line .
fibrosis is the formation of excess fibrous connective tissue in an organ or tissue in a reparative or reactive process .
a width and length quality which is relatively small ,  where both width and length are decreased .
a broken quality where an entity is cracked or broken ,  usually a bone .
a fractured quality that is caused by a loss of bone mass  ( osteoporosis )  that occurs as part of aging .
a fractured quality in which the fragment of bone tears away from the main mass of bone as a result of physical trauma .
a proportionality quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's decreased magnitude in respect to a related entity .
a proportionality quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's increased magnitude in respect to a related entity .
existing or functioning as though broken into separate parts ;  disorganized ;  disunified .
the number of repeated events per unit time ,  occurring in a repeating series .
a protein that is a translation product of the human adipoq gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human afp gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human alb gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human alpi gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human alpl gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human alpp gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human alpg gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human aox1 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cat gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cp gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human dpyd gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase that is a translation product of the human g6pd gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gale gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gast gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gcg gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human cblif gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human gpi gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human hpd gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human ids gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an insulin family protein that is a translation product of the human ins gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human lep gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human lgals3 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human mgat2 gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human oplah gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human pah gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a somatotropin hormone family member that is a translation product of the human prl gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human pth gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an angiotensinogenase that is a translation product of the human ren gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human vwf gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human xdh gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
an organic amino compound that consists of amino acid residues  ( unmodified amino - acid residues and / or modified amino - acid residues )  linked by peptide bonds or derivatives of such bonds .
a protein that is a translation product of the escherichia coli k - 12 pyrf gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is a translation product of the human calca gene or a 1:1 ortholog thereof .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of homo sapiens .
a protein that is a standalone version of the hormone_1 domain  ( pfam:pf00103 )  .
a calca gene translation product that is encoded in the genome of human .
a protein that is encoded in the genome of some eukaryota .
a protein that is a translation product of a gene that encodes a standalone insulin  ( pfam:pf00049 )  domain preceded by a signal peptide .
a protein that has alpha - amylase activity .
an active alpha - amylase isozyme that is encoded in the genome of human .
a protein that is a translation product of the mouse ren1 or ren2 genes ,  1:1 orthologs thereof ,  or a semi - ortholog thereof .
an immunoglobulin complex whose components are encoded in the genome of human .
a protein that contains a single copy of the glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ,  nad binding domain  ( pfam:pf00479 )  at or near the n terminus ,  a single copy of the glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ,  c - terminal domain  ( pfam:pf02781 )  at or near the c terminus ,  and no other domains .
an igd immunoglobulin complex ,  circulating in human .
a protein that is a translation product of some mrna produced by a somatically recombined immunoglobulin heavy chain locus .
a protein that is a translation product of some mrna produced by a somatically recombined immunoglobulin light chain locus .
an immunoglobulin light chain protein that is produced from the immunoglobulin kappa locus .
an immunoglobulin light chain protein that is produced from the immunoglobulin lambda locus .
an immunoglobulin light chain protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
an ig kappa light chain protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
an ig lambda light chain protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
an immunoglobulin heavy chain protein in which the constant region is encoded by the igd gene segment .
an igd heavy chain protein that is encoded in the genome of human .
a protein that is a translation product of any of the following alkaline phosphatase genes in human: alpg  ( encoding the germinal form ;  gcap )  ,  alpp  ( encoding the placental form ;  plap )  ,  alpi  ( encoding the intestinal form ;  iap )  ,  and alpl  ( encoding the tissue non - specific form ;  tnap )  .
a 5 - oxoprolinase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a phenylalanine - 4 - hydroxylase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a ceruloplasmin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a renin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a prolactin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a parathyroid hormone that is encoded in the genome of human .
a pro - glucagon that is encoded in the genome of human .
an insulin gene translation product that is encoded in the genome of human .
a gastrin that is encoded in the genome of human .
an albumin that is encoded in the genome of human .
an alpha - fetoprotein that is encoded in the genome of human .
a catalase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a von willebrand factor that is encoded in the genome of human .
an alkaline phosphatase ,  tissue - nonspecific isozyme that is encoded in the genome of human .
an alkaline phosphatase ,  placental type that is encoded in the genome of human .
a glucose - 6 - phosphate isomerase that is encoded in the genome of human .
an intestinal alkaline phosphatase that is encoded in the genome of human .
an alkaline phosphatase ,  germ cell type that is encoded in the genome of human .
a glucose - 6 - phosphate 1 - dehydrogenase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a galectin - 3 that is encoded in the genome of human .
an iduronate 2 - sulfatase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a cobalamin binding intrinsic factor that is encoded in the genome of human .
a 4 - hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a leptin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a xanthine dehydrogenase / oxidase that is encoded in the genome of human .
an aldehyde oxidase that is encoded in the genome of human .
an alpha - 1 , 6 - mannosyl - glycoprotein 2 - beta - n - acetylglucosaminyltransferase that is encoded in the genome of human .
a dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase  [ nadp (  +  )  ]  that is encoded in the genome of human .
a udp - glucose 4 - epimerase that is encoded in the genome of human .
an adiponectin that is encoded in the genome of human .
a material entity consisting of multiple components that are causally integrated .
an extent of biological sequence .
a region  ( or regions )  that includes all of the sequence elements necessary to encode a functional transcript .
an occurrent  [ span:occurrent ]  that exists in time by occurring or happening ,  has temporal parts and always involves and depends on some entity .
lower ,  narrow portion of the uterus where it joins with the top end of the vagina .
orifice of the olfactory system .
the olfactory organ of vertebrates ,  consisting of nares ,  olfactory epithelia and the structures and skeletal framework of the nasal cavity .
the clusters of hormone - producing cells that are scattered throughout the pancreas
the pituitary gland is an endocrine gland that secretes hormones that regulate many other glands  [ go ]  .
a layer of dense irregular connective tissue that lines organs and supports the mucosa ,  as well as joins the mucosa to the bulk of underlying smooth muscle .
a major division of the nervous system that contains nerves which connect the central nervous system  ( cns )  with sensory organs ,  other organs ,  muscles ,  blood vessels and glands .
the parasympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system .
part of peripheral nervous system that includes the somatic parts of the cranial and spinal nerves and their ganglia and the peripheral sensory receptors .
the sympathetic nervous system is one of the two divisions of the vertebrate autonomic nervous system  ( the other being the parasympathetic nervous system )  .
any portion of the organ that covers that body and consists of a layer of epidermis and a layer of dermis .
a non - material anatomical entity of two dimensions .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the endocrine system and is made up of islet cells ,  which produce insulin ,  glucagon and somatostatin .
the part of the pancreas that is part of the exocrine system and which produces and store zymogens of digestive enzymes ,  such as chymotrypsinogen and trypsinogen in the acinar cells  [ go ]  .
an organ of sight that includes the camera - type eyeball and supporting structures such as the lacrimal apparatus ,  the conjunctiva ,  the eyelid .
an organ that is capable of transducing sensory stimulus to the nervous system .
anatomical projection that protrudes from the skin .
any hollow cylindrical anatomical structure containing a lumen through which substances are transported .
major subdivision of an organism that protrudes from the body [ dos ,  caro ]  .
any of the rounded masses of lymphoid tissue that are surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue ,  are distributed along the lymphatic vessels ,  and contain numerous lymphocytes which filter the flow of lymph .
a thin layer of loose connective tissue which lies beneath the epithelium and together with the epithelium constitutes the mucosa [ wp ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory airway .
the head is the anterior - most division of the body  [ go ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of a secretory epithelial layer  ( mesothelium )  and a connective tissue layer .
dense regular connective tissue that connects muscle to bone [ vsao ]  .
a biological tissue mass ,  most commonly a mass of nerve cell bodies .
an eye with one concave chamber .
an oval area in the retina ,  usually located temporal to the posterior pole of the eye and slightly below the level of the optic disk .
thickened areas of the saccule or utricle where the termination of the vestibular nerve occurs [ mesh , modified ]  .
a tubular structure that contains ,  conveys body fluid ,  such as blood or lymph .
muscular duct that propels urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder ,  or related organs .
the fibromuscular tubular canal through which urine is discharged from the bladder to the exterior via the external urinary meatus ;  in males ,  the urethra is joined by the ejaculatory ducts and serves as a passageway for semen during ejaculation ,  as well as a canal for urine during voiding ;  in females ,  the urethra is shorter and emerges above the vaginal opening
a tubular structure that transports secreted or excreted substances .
a subdivision of the digestive tract that connects the small intestine to the cloaca or anus .
organ component adjacent to an organ cavity and which consists of a maximal aggregate of organ component layers .
material anatomical entity that is a single connected structure with inherent 3d shape generated by coordinated expression of the organism's own genome .
anatomical structure that performs a specific function or group of functions  [ wp ]  .
a part of an organ that constitutes a distinct modular sub - unit .
a multicellular structure that is a part of an organ .
anatomical structure that is part of the respiratory system .
the stage of development at which the animal is fully formed ,  including immaturity and maturity .
a life cycle stage that starts with fertilization and ends with the fully formed embryo .
end of the life of an organism .
an section of a respiratory tract .
any part or collection of parts of the central or peripheral nervous system .
a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the vertebrate kidney [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements and articular elements that are part of an individual subdivision of the organism .
the surface  ( external )  layer of ectoderm which begins to proliferate shortly after separation from the neuroectoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the endoderm and the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops from the ectoderm ,  mesoderm and endoderm .
the organs associated with producing offspring in the gender that produces spermatozoa .
the second stage of the kidney .
in mammals ,  the metanephros is the excretory organ of the fetus ,  which develops into the mature kidney and is formed from the rear portion of the nephrogenic cord .
a mesonephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the mesonephros [ go ]  .
an epithelial swelling on the wolffian duct that elongates to invade the adjacent metanephric mesenchyme [ mp ] 
a spherical embryonic mass of blastomeres formed before the blastula and resulting from cleavage of the fertilized ovum .
a glycoprotein membrane surrounding the plasma membrane of an oocyte .
a mass of cells that develop into the body of the embryo and some extraembryonic tissues
the mesectodermal cell layer arising from the trophectoderm that erodes the uterine mucosa and contributes to the formation of the placenta
a flattened ,  almost circular bilaminar plate of cells formed when the inner cell mass  ( aka embryoblast )  forms two epithelial layers ,  each of a distinct lineage ,  separated by an extracellular basement membrane: the external  ( dorsal )  layer is called the epiblast and the internal  ( ventral )  layer is called the hypoblast  ( aka primitive endoderm )  ;  together ,  they compose the bilaminar embryonic disc .
stage succeeding embryo ,  including mature structure
a depression or fissure in the surface of an organ .
nonparenchymatous organ that primarily consists of dense connective tissue organized into a sheet which interconnects two or more organs ,  separates two or more body spaces from one another ,  or surrounds an organ or body part .
portion of neural crest that develops from the dorsal neural tube .
the lung vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the lungs [ go ]  .
an entire span of an organism's life ,  commencing with the zygote stage and ending in the death of the organism .
a spatiotemporal region encompassing some part of the life cycle of an organism .
a stage at which the organism is a single cell produced by means of sexual reproduction .
the first few specialized divisions of an activated animal egg ;  stage consisting of division of cells in the early embryo .
an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
a stage defined by complex and coordinated series of cellular movements that occurs at the end of cleavage during embryonic development of most animals .
staged defined by the formation of a tube from the flat layer of ectodermal cells known as the neural plate .
a stage at which the ectoderm ,  endoderm ,  and mesoderm develop into the internal organs of the organism .
the stage of being a sexually mature adult animal .
the connective tissue located between the respiratory  ( airway and alveolar )  epithelium ,  the capillary endothelium and pleural mesothelium ;  it contains basement membrane composed of collagen ,  elastin ,  proteoglycans ,  and fibronectin
the epithelial layer of the lung .
a tube in the respiratory system .
structure derived from foregut that becomes a lung [ go ]  .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of single layer of cells connected to each other by cell junctions .
a fasciculated bundle of neuron projections  ( go:0043005 )  ,  largely or completely lacking synapses .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the cns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections ,  and including nearby cells that share the same cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
nucleus that receives projections from or contains neurons that send projections through one of the cranial nerves
the group of motor neurons residing in the pons that innervate the muscles of facial expression
prominent oval structure in the medulla oblongata ,  present in pairs ,  the lower portion of the brainstem .
the terminal part of the large intestine ,  continuous proximally with the rectum and distally terminates with the anus .
segment of the alimentary canal extending from the stomach to the anus and ,  in humans and other mammals ,  consists of two segments ,  the small intestine and the large intestine .
anatomical conduit that connects two adjacent body spaces  ( or a body space with the space surrounding the organism )  [ fma , modified ]  .
common chamber into which the intestines and excretory system opens .
endoderm - lined chamber that develops as pouch - like dilation of the caudal end of the hindgut and receives the allantois ventrally and two mesonephric ducts laterally ;  caudally it ends blindly at the cloacal membrane formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm [ mp ]  .
the ventral part of the cloaca remaining after septation of the rectum ,  which further develops into part of the bladder ,  part of the prostatic part of the male urethra and the urethra and vestibule in females
the proximal portion of the digestive tract ,  containing the oral cavity and bounded by the oral opening .
the orifice that connects the mouth to the exterior of the body .
anatomical cavity at the start of the digestive tract that that is enclosed by the mouth .
a section dividing a colon along a proximal - distal axis .
the pair of anatomical structures comprised of a left lung and right lung .
organ that functions in gaseous exchange between an organism and its environment .
amniotic fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of watery liquid surrounding and cushioning a growing fetus within the amnion .
a portion of organism substance that is the product of an excretion process that will be eliminated from the body .
a fluid that is composed of blood plasma and erythrocytes .
circulating fluid that is part of the hemolymphoid system .
the narrow part of the shaft of the radius just below the head .
a ridge on the cerebral cortex .
dorsal part  ( roof region )  of the telencephalon [ go ]  .
ventral part  ( base region )  of the telencephalon .
the bone forming the forehead and roof of the eye orbit
in humans: bone forming side and roof of cranium .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements or supporting an organ .
a neural arch that is part of a vertebral bone 2 .
the atlanto - occipital joint  ( articulation between the atlas and the occipital bone )  consists of a pair of condyloid joints .
an adductor muscle that attaches to the hip and femur .
a layer of membrane around a tendon .
the thin innermost layer of the extraembryonic membranes that contains the amniotic fluid ;  the membrane forms a closed sac in which the embryo and later ,  the fetus ,  is suspended and protected
organism at the blastula stage  -  an early stage of embryonic development in animals .
the external portion of an animal body derived from ectoderm and mesoderm layers that encloses the body cavity .
the upper ventral region of the torso of an organism .
a skeletal muscle whose contraction extends or stretches a body part .
cartilage pertaining to the tibia .
the space between the arachnoid and pia mater .
a substance produced by the cervix and endocervical glands [ bto ]  .
mucosa that is part of a colon .
a mucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an embryo that is at the late embryonic stage ;  this stage covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the branched tubular glands found in the mucosa of the fundus and body of the stomach which contain parietal cells that secrete hydrochloric acid and zymogenic cells that produce pepsin .
pancreatic juice is slightly alkaline and contains numerous enzymes and inactive enzyme precursors including alpha - amylase ,  chymotrypsinogen ,  lipase ,  procarboxypeptidase ,  proelastase ,  prophospholipase a2 ,  ribonuclease ,  and trypsinogen .
the wall of the digestive tract .
a mucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
bone marrow in which the fat cells predominate in the meshes of the reticular network .
a gland that is part of the intestinal mucosa .
a lining of mostly endodermal origin ,  covered in epithelium ,  which is involved in absorption and secretion .
a dielectric  ( electrically insulating )  material consisting of protein and fat that forms a layer ,  the myelin sheath ,  usually around only the axon of a neuron .
the insulating envelope that surrounds nerve fibers or axons .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the orbit and its contents ,  the nasal cavity and the skin of the nose and forehead .
a set of midline structures surrounding the brainstem of the mammalian brain ,  originally described anatomically ,  e .g . ,  hippocampal formation ,  amygdala ,  hypothalamus ,  cingulate cortex .
a fibrous membrane ,  which ,  in the neck ,  represents the supraspinal ligaments of the upper vertebrae .
functional part of an organ in the body .
a mucosa that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mammalian blastocyst is a hollow ball of cells containing two cell types ,  the inner cell mass and the trophectoderm [ go ]  .
the inner portion of the kidney consisting of the renal pyramids
a skeletal muscle whose contraction bends a joint .
the corpus striatum  ( striated body )  is a compound structure consisting of the caudate nucleus and the lentiform nucleus ,  which consists of the putamen and the globus pallidus [ wp ]  .
the motor and sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the auricle ,  the external acoustic meatus ,  tympanic membrane ,  temporal region ,  the cheek ,  the skin overlying the mandible ,  the anterior portion of the tongue ,  the floor of the mouth ,  lower teeth and gingiva and transmits motor information from the muscles of mastication ,  the mylohyoid muscle and digastric muscle and the muscles tensor tympani and tensor veli palatini .
the part of the hindlimb between pelvis and the knee ,  corresponding to the femur .
the sensory nerve subdivision of the trigeminal nerve that transmits sensory information from the palate ,  upper teeth and gingiva ,  the skin between the palpebral fissure and the mouth ,  and from the nasal cavity and maxillary sinuses .
the muscular portion of the tongue .
a mucosa that is part of a respiratory airway .
apocrine sweat glands are sweat glands composed of a coiled secretory portion located at the junction of the dermis and subcutaneous fat ,  from which a straight portion inserts and secretes into the infundibular portion of the hair follicle .
the subdivision of the musculoskeletal system that consists of all the muscles of the body [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
a part of the pharynx that consists of a flap of elastic cartilage tissue plus a mucous membrane covering ,  attached to the entrance of the larynx .
tissue that surrounds the lens nucleus
the core of the crystalline lens ,  surrounded by the cortex .
pia mater or arachnoid mater .
the group of nerve cell bodies that conveys auditory sensation from the organ of corti to the hindbrain and resides on the cochlear part of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( eighth cranial nerve )  [ mp ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any portion of cartilage tissue that is part of the sternum
a mucosa that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a jejunum .
the upturned perpendicular extremity of the mandible
the nasal vestibule is the most anterior part of the nasal cavity .
the outer covering of the calvaria .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are serous secreting cells .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland in which the principal secretory cells are mucus secreting cells .
an anatomical wall that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a merocrine ,  unbranched ,  unbranched ,  coiled ,  tubular gland sweat gland .
the prostate epithelium .
a plexus of autonomic nerve fibers within the wall of the digestive tube ,  and made up of the submucosal ,  myenteric ,  and subserosal plexuses ;  it contains visceral afferent fibers ,  sympathetic postganglionic fibers ,  parasympathetic preganglionic and postganglionic fibers ,  and parasympathetic postganglionic cell bodies .
the arachnoid trabeculae are delicate strands of connective tissue that loosely connect the two innermost layers of the meninges  -  -  the arachnoid mater and the pia mater .
a small ,  often microscopic ,  tissue element in the form of a small beam ,  strut or rod ,  generally having a mechanical function ,  and usually but not necessarily composed of dense collagenous tissue .
a vein that drains the left pampiniform plexus and empties into the left renal vein .
a vein that drains the right pampiniform plexus and empties into the inferior vena cava .
gray matter structure located on the midline of the forebrain consisting of the septum pellucidum  ( in some species )  and the septal nuclei  ( heimer ,  1996 )  .
the layer located below the cerebral cortex that includes the forebrain ,  midbrain and hindbrain .
a portion of organism substance that is produced by exocrine glands .
any of several small branches of the internal carotid artery that supply the trigeminal ganglion and the walls of the cavernous and petrosal sinuses .
the region of the opening of the uterine cervix into the uterine cavity .
an anatomical wall that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
material anatomical entity in a gaseous ,  liquid ,  semisolid or solid state ;  produced by anatomical structures or derived from inhaled and ingested substances that have been modified by anatomical structures as they pass through the body .
non - material anatomical entity of three dimensions ,  that is generated by morphogenetic or other physiologic processes ;  is surrounded by one or more anatomical structures ;  contains one or more organism substances or anatomical structures .
anatomical entity that has mass .
anatomical entity that has no mass .
multicellular ,  connected anatomical structure that has multiple organs as parts and whose parts work together to achieve some shared function .
anatomical structure that is an individual member of a species and consists of more than one cell .
multi - tissue structure that is part of a compound organ .
a gonad of a male animal .
the organs and associated structures associated with bearing offspring in a female animal .
anatomical structure which is a subdivision of a whole organism ,  consisting of components of multiple anatomical systems ,  largely surrounded by a contiguous region of integument .
anatomical structure that consists of cell parts and cell substances and together does not constitute a cell or a tissue .
anatomical group that has its parts adjacent to one another .
a multicellular anatomical structure that is associated with an embryo and derived from the zygote from which it develops ,  but which does not contribute to the embryo proper or to structures that are part of the same organism after embryogenesis .
multicellular anatomical structure that consists of many cells of one or a few types ,  arranged in an extracellular matrix such that their long - range organisation is at least partly a repetition of their short - range organisation .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more portions of tissue of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona - fide boundaries from other distinct structural units of different types .
portion of tissue ,  that consists of one or more layers of epithelial cells connected to each other by cell junctions and which is underlain by a basal lamina .
unilaminar epithelium that consists of a single layer of cuboidal cells .
unilaminar epithelium ,  which consists of a single layer of columnar cells .
epithelium which consists of more than one layer of epithelial cells that may or may not be in contact with a basement membrane .
unilaminar epithelium which consists of a single layer of squamous cells .
epithelium that consists of epithelial cells not arranged in one ore more layers .
compound organ that contains one or more macroscopic anatomical spaces .
epithelium which consists of a single layer of epithelial cells .
a thin muscle connecting the junction between the duodenum ,  jejunum ,  and duodenojejunal flexure to connective tissue surrounding the superior mesenteric artery and coeliac artery
mucus is a bodily fluid consisting of a slippery secretion of the lining of the mucous membranes in the body .
interstitial fluid is a bodily fluid consisting of a solution which bathes and surrounds the cells of multicellular animals .
subdivision of trunk that lies between the head and the abdomen .
the subdivision of the vertebrate body between the thorax and pelvis .
anatomical entity that comprises the organism in the early stages of growth and differentiation that are characterized by cleavage ,  the laying down of fundamental tissues ,  and the formation of primitive organs and organ systems .
a layer of cells produced during the process of gastrulation during the early development of the animal embryo ,  which is distinct from other such layers of cells ,  as an early step of cell differentiation .
primary germ layer that is the outer of the embryo's three germ layers and gives rise to epidermis and neural tissue .
primary germ layer that lies remote from the surface of the embryo and gives rise to internal tissues such as gut .
the middle germ layer of the embryo ,  between the endoderm and ectoderm .
motor nerve of the pharynx ,  arises from the upper part of the ganglion nodosum ,  and consists principally of filaments from the cranial portion of the accessory nerve .
anterior part of the embryonic digestive tract that develops into a mouth .
inward fold on the surface of the embryonic ectoderm that develops into an ectodermal terminal part of the digestive tract .
a muscle that acts on the pharynx [ wp ,  vetted ]  .
a bundle of myelinated nerve fibers passing transversely through the lamina terminalis and connecting symmetrical parts of the two cerebral hemispheres ;  it consists of a smaller anterior part  ( pars anterior commissurae anterioris )  and a larger posterior part  ( pars posterior commissurae anterioris )  .
cranial nerve fiber tract which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons running posterior medially towards the optic chiasm ,  at which some of the axons cross the midline and after which the structure is termed the optic tract .
an expanded region of the vertebrate alimentary tract that serves as a food storage compartment and digestive organ .
a membranous fold of the heart that prevents reflux of fluid
the main trunk of the systemic arterial system that carries blood from the heart to all the organs and other structures of the body ,  bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation
a myogenic muscular circulatory organ found in the vertebrate cardiovascular system composed of chambers of cardiac muscle .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce endocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
any of a number of short transversospinal muscles chiefly developed in cervical ,  lumbar ,  and thoracic regions ,  arising from the transverse process of one vertebra and inserted into the root of the spinous process of the next two or three vertebrae above ,  with nerve supply from the dorsal branches of the spinal nerve ,  and whose actions rotate the vertebral column .
the brain is the center of the nervous system in all vertebrate ,  and most invertebrate ,  animals .
the thin layer of gray matter on the surface of the cerebral hemisphere that develops from the telencephalon .
any thin layer or plate .
middle part of an organ ,  surrounded by the cortex .
a decussation of the diencephalon where the fibers of the optic nerve cross
the cervical nerves are the spinal nerves from the cervical vertebrae .
the transparent anterior portion of the fibrous coat of the eye that serves as the chief refractory structure
transparent part of camera - type eye that helps to refract light to be focused on the retina .
the retina is the innermost layer or coating at the back of the eyeball ,  which is sensitive to light and in which the optic nerve terminates .
an organ that detects light .
an organism subdivision that extends from the head to the pectoral girdle ,  encompassing the cervical vertebral column .
a midventral endochondral skeletal element which represents the origin site of the pectoral muscles [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
paired endochondral long bone that extends between the pectoral girdle and the skeletal parts of the forelimb .
the invaginated serous membrane that surrounds the lungs  ( the visceral portion )  and lines the walls of the pleural cavity  ( parietal portion )  .
the portion of the hindlimb that contains both the stylopod and zeugopod .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a bony prominence near the extremity of the femur that normally serves as attachment points for hip and thigh muscles [ mp , modified ] 
endochondral longbone connecting the pelvic girdle with posterior zeugopodium skeleton .
anatomical cluster that consists of two or more adjacent skeletal structures ,  which may be interconnected by various types of tissue [ vsao ]  .
a metapodium region that is part of a pes .
vein that drains the axilla
the part of the central nervous system lying between the medulla oblongata and the midbrain ,  ventral to the cerebellum .
a intromittent organ in certain biologically male organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with reproduction .
reproductive organ that produces and releases eggs  ( ovary )  or sperm  ( testis )  .
the gonad of a female organism which contains germ cells
a tube or collection of tubes in an animal from the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the female muscular organ of gestation in which the developing embryo or fetus is nourished until birth
a fibromuscular tubular tract leading from the uterus to the exterior of the body in female placental mammals and marsupials ,  or to the cloaca in female birds ,  monotremes ,  and some reptiles [ wp ]  .
external genital organs of the female mammal [ wp ]  .
either of a pair of glandular pouches that lie one on either side of the male reproductive tract posterolateral to the urinary bladder and in the human male secrete a sugar -  and protein - containing fluid into the ejaculatory duct .
the ejaculatory ducts  ( ductus ejaculatorii )  are paired structures in male anatomy ,  about 2 cm in length .
a secretory duct that transports sperm from the testis .
the outer epithelial layer of the skin that is superficial to the dermis .
functional system which consists of structures involved in respiration .
an airway through which respiratory air passes in organisms .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs devoted to the ingestion ,  digestion ,  and assimilation of food and the discharge of residual wastes .
the renal system in an anatomical system that maintains fluid balance and contributes to electrolyte balance ,  acid / base balance ,  and disposal of nitrogenous waste products . .
organ system that passes nutrients  ( such as amino acids and electrolytes )  ,  gases ,  hormones ,  blood cells ,  etc .
the body of the ulna at its upper part is prismatic in form ,  and curved so as to be convex behind and lateralward ;  its central part is straight ;  its lower part is rounded ,  smooth ,  and bent a little lateralward .
the head of the radius has a cylindrical form ,  and on its upper surface is a shallow cup or fovea for articulation with the capitulum  ( or capitellum )  of the humerus .
portion of connective tissue composed of adipocytes enmeshed in areolar tissue
a subdivision of the muscular system corresponding to a subdisivision of an organism .
the nervous system is an organ system containing predominantly neuron and glial cells .
the central nervous system is the core nervous system that serves an integrating and coordinating function .
a group of axons linking two or more neuropils and having a common origin ,  termination [ fbbt ]  .
a slender neuron projection bundle [ fbbt ]  ;  a bundle of anatomical fibers ,  as of muscle or nerve  ( american heritage dictionary 4th ed )  .
axon tract that crosses the midline of the central nervous system [ nif ,  modified ]  .
an enclosed ,  cable - like bundle of axons in the peripheral nervous system originating in a nerve root in the central nervous system  ( or a condensed nervous structure )  connecting with peripheral structures .
a nerve that transmits from sensory receptors on the surface of the body to the central nervous system .
a diaphysis that is part of a radius bone [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that overlaps the nervous system and is responsible for receiving and processing sensory information .
the sensory system for the sense of taste .
a filament ,  mostly protein ,  that grows from follicles found in the dermis [ wp ]  .
a sac - like expansion of the ventral wall of the intestine ,  narrowed into a yolk stalk near the body [ hyman's ]  .
anterior subdivision of a digestive tract .
a portion of the respiratory and digestive tracts ;  its distal limit is the superior part of the esophagus and it connects the nasal and oral cavities with the esophagus and larynx ;  it contains the valleculae and the pyriform recesses ;  its upper limits are the nasal cavity and cranial base .
tube that connects the pharynx to the stomach .
saliva - secreting exocrine glands of the oral cavity [ go ] 
middle subdivision of a digestive tract [ cjm ]  .
the caudalmost subdivision of a digestive tract .
primordia are populations of contiguous cells that are morphologically distinct and already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue [ fbbt ,  hartenstein ,  v .  ( 2004 )  ]  .
in the developing vertebrate ,  the neural tube is the embryo's precursor to the central nervous system ,  which comprises the brain and spinal cord .
bottom part of the pharynx that connects to the esophagus .
the terminal portion of the intestinal tube ,  terminating with the anus
biological entity that is either an individual member of a biological species or constitutes the structural organization of an individual member of a biological species .
a duct joining the pancreas to the common bile duct to supply pancreatic juices which aid in digestion provided by the exocrine pancreas .
a pad of fibrocartilage between the articular surfaces of two successive vertebral centra which has nucleus pulposus at its core .
a synovial joint between the prezygapophysis of one vertebra and the postzygapophysis of the vertebra directly above it .
a zone of skin that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to to the throat ,  neck glands ,  tongue ,  face ,  mouth ,  ear ,  scalp and dura mater of the meninges [ mp ] 
it ascends beneath the anterior margin of the trapezius ,  distributing branches to it ,  and to the neighboring muscles and lymph glands in the neck ,  and anastomosing with the superficial branch of the descending branch of the occipital artery .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the lower half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
a point along the course of the gastrointestinal tract where the small intestine  ( ileum )  ends as it opens into the cecal portion of the large intestine ;  occurs usually within the iliac fossa ,  demarcated internally as the ileocecal orifice
a potential space between the visceral and parietal layers of the pericardium .
ossified form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
a extension of a neural arches dorsal to the neural canal [ tao , modified ]  .
the transverse or costal processes of a vertebra ,  two in number ,  project one at either side from the point where the lamina joins the pedicle ,  between the superior and inferior articular processes .
the two short ,  thick processes ,  which project backward ,  one on either side ,  from the upper part of the body to the laminae
paired processes at the cephalic end of the neural arch .
paired processes at the caudal end of the neural arch .
endocardium that is part of the cardiac ventricle .
an epicardial layer that lines a cardiac ventricle
muscular layer of the cardiac ventricle composed of a compact myocardial layer surrounding the trabecular layer .
a zone of skin that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
transudate contained in the pleural cavity .
excretion that is the output of a kidney
secretion produced by a sweat gland .
joint fluid is a transudate of plasma that is actively secreted by synovial cells .
skeletal element within the mouth  ( or in some species ,  upper part of the digestive tract )  that is composed of dentine and is used in procuring or masticating food .
the first vertebral bone in the vertebral column .
the second vertebral bone in the vertebral column .
a vertebra bone that is part of the sacral region of the vertebral column .
any vertebral bone that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
incisors are the first kind of tooth in heterodont mammals .
the pectoralis minor is a thin ,  triangular muscle ,  situated at the upper part of the chest ,  beneath the pectoralis major .
a thin musculomebranous barrier that separates the abdominal and thoracic cavities .
a paired dermal or endochondral bone that is part of the pectoral girdle .
the respiratory muscles that arise from the lower border of one rib and insert into the upper border of the adjoining rib
the latissimus dorsi is the larger ,  flat ,  dorso - lateral muscle on the trunk ,  posterior to the arm ,  and partly covered by the trapezius on its median dorsal region .
traditional gross anatomy divided the liver into four lobes based on surface features .
the right lobe is much larger than the left ;  the proportion between them being as six to one .
the left lobe is smaller and more flattened than the right .
a lobe of tissue that is part of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the right side of a thyroid gland .
a lobe of thyroid gland that is in the left side of a thyroid gland .
the serratus ventralis is a muscle that originates on the surface of the upper eight or nine ribs at the side of the chest and inserts along the entire anterior length of the medial border of the scapula .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all the vertebra and associated skeletal elements and joints in the body [ modified from vsao ]  .
a foramen within a vertebral element through which the spinal cord runs .
the parathyroid gland is an endocrine gland for secretion of parathyroid hormone ,  usually found as a pair ,  embedded in the connective tissue capsule on the posterior surface of the thyroid gland .
muscle tissue composed of cardiac muscle cells ,  forming the muscles of the heart [ zfa , modified ]  .
muscle tissue that consists primarily of skeletal muscle fibers .
muscle tissue which is unstriated ,  composed primarily of smooth muscle fibers surrounded by a reticulum of collagen and elastic fibers .
simple squamous epithelium of mesodermal origin which lines serous membranes .
a major subdivision of an organism that is the entire part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
in anatomy ,  the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  is a blood vessel that drains blood from the small intestine .
either of the pair of major vessels which arise from the renal hilus and return blood from the kidneys ,  suprarenal gland and the ureter to the inferior vena cava .
a renal vein that drains the right kidney
a renal vein that drains the left kidney
vein that carries blood away from the liver [ zfa ]  .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from a single male gonad .
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from its corresponding ovary to inferior vena cava or one of its tributaries .
a vein that drains the adrenal gland .
a nerve of the arm that originates from the brachial plexus and is formed from parts of the medial and lateral cords of the brachial plexus ,  and continues down the arm to enter the forearm with the brachial artery .
the tubular structure that conducts gall bladder contents from the gall bladder to the common bile duct
last portion of the large intestine before it becomes the rectum .
the portion of the colon between the left colic flexure and the sigmoid colon at the pelvic brim ;  the portion of the descending colon lying in the left iliac fossa is sometimes called the iliac colon .
the part of the large intestine that is closest to the rectum and anus .
the body of stomach is the part of the stomach that lies between the fundus above and the pyloric antrum below ;  its boundaries are poorly defined [ go ]  .
the area at the bottom of the stomach on the caudal side of the pyloric canal that contains gastrin - producing g cells ,  which stimulate acid production ,  and the luminal ph - sensitive population of somatostatin - producing d cells
the stomach tissue region surrounding and controlling the distal outlet of the stomach ,  which opens into the duodenum
the layered structure that makes up the stomach ,  typiclly consists of a serous coat ,  a muscular coat ,  a mucous membrane ,  and other tissue layers in between
an anatomical wall that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the peritoneum responsible for connecting the jejunum and ileum  ( parts of the small intestine )  to the back wall of the abdomen .
the triangular region on the periphery of the liver lobules that contain a bile duct and a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel .
the functional unit of the liver ,  consisting of a mass of hepatocytes from adjacent liver lobules aligned around the hepatic arterioles and portal venules just as they anastomose into sinusoids .
a complex network of conduits that begins with the canals of hering  ( intralobar bile duct )  and progressively merges into a system of interlobular ,  septal ,  and major ducts which then coalesce to form the extrahepatic bile ducts ,  which finally deliver bile to the intestine ,  and in some species to the gallbladder .
the part of the biliary tree formed by the union of the cystic duct and the common hepatic duct
predominantly extrahepatic bile duct which is formed by the junction of the right and left hepatic ducts ,  which are predominantly intrahepatic ,  and ,  in turn ,  joins the cystic duct to form the common bile duct [ gaid ]  .
the duct that drains bile from the right half of the liver and joins the left hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the duct that drains bile from the left half of the liver and joins the right hepatic duct to form the common hepatic duct .
the inner layer of peritoneum that is wrapped around organs located inside the intraperitoneal space .
anatomical cavity bounded by visceral and parietal peritoneum
mesenteric artery that supplies the whole length of the small intestine except the superior part of the duodenum .
mesenteric artery that supplies the large intestine from the left colic  ( or splenic )  flexure to the upper part of the rectum ,  which includes the descending colon ,  the sigmoid colon ,  and part of the rectum .
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the kidneys .
renal artery that supplies the right kidney
renal artery that supplies the left kidney
one of a pair of arteries that is a branch of the abdominal aorta that supplies blood to a male gonad .
a testicular artery that supplies a right testicle .
a testicular artery that supplies a left testicle .
an artery that supplies an ovary .
the common iliac arteries are two large arteries ,  about 4cm long in adults but more than a centimetre in diameter ,  that originate from the aortic bifurcation .
an artery that supplies the liver .
an artery that supplies the spleen .
the mucosal layer that lines the stomach .
the fibrous connective tissue layer beneath the stomach mucosa
the outermost layer of the stomach wall ,  consisting of layers of connective tissue continuous with the peritoneum
a strong ring of smooth muscle at the end of the pyloric canal which lets food pass from the stomach to the duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
submucosal tissue in the small intestines .
a serous membrane that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a compound tubular submucosal gland found in that portion of the duodenum which is above the hepatopancreatic sphincter  ( sphincter of oddi )  .
the tiny hair - like projections that protrude from the inside of the small intestine that contain blood vessels that capture digested nutrients that are absorbed through the intestinal wall ;  the villi increase the absorptive surface area of the small intestine by approximately 30 - fold
a blood vessel that drains blood from the large intestine that usually terminates when reaching the splenic vein ,  which goes on to form the portal vein with the superior mesenteric vein  ( smv )  .
a tributary of the superior mesenteric vein that drains the jejunum .
the veins that drain blood from the ileum into the superior mesenteric vein .
the lateral abdominal wall muscle that is deep to the internal oblique .
an ureter that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ureter that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a funnel shaped proximal portion of the ureter that is formed by convergence of the major calices  [ mp ]  .
outer cortical portion of the kidney ,  between the renal capsule and the renal medulla .
tip of renal pyramid projecting into a minor calyx .
the structure containing the glomerular capsule and the glomerulus that serves as the initial blood - filtering component of a nephron
a cup - like sac at the expanded beginning of a tubular component of a nephron that contains the glomerulus
an epithelial tube that is part of the nephron ,  the functional part of the kidney .
the collecting duct is a portion of the nephron through which water flows ,  moving passively down its concentration gradient
an adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
an adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that produces and secretes steroid hormones such as corticosterone ,  estrone and aldosterone
the inner portion of the adrenal gland that consists mainly of chromaffin cells which produce ,  store and secrete neurotransmitters such as epinephrine and norepinephrine
lamina propria that is part_of the small intestine .
mucosal layer that lines the intestine .
a serous membrane that is part of a wall of intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
orifice at the opposite end of an animal's digestive tract from the mouth .
the canals that carry bile in the liver between the intralobular ducts and the biliary ductules ;  interlobular bile ducts are part of the interlobular portal triad .
a ligament that attaches the liver to the anterior body wall .
the area of the white pulp where the affinity maturation of b cells and the generation of memory b cells and plasma cells occur
an adventitia that is part of a ureter .
a lamina propria that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
distensible musculomembranous organ situated in the anterior part of the pelvic cavity in which urine collects before excretion [ mp ]  .
an anatomical wall that lines the insider of a urinary bladder .
the constricted portion of the urinary bladder ,  formed by the meeting of its inferolateral surfaces proximal to the opening of the urethra [ mp ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the urinary bladder
a serous membrane that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the secretory units of the exocrine pancreas ,  where fluid containing digestive enzymes is produced ;  consists of a group of secretory cells surrounding a luminal space that connects to the pancreatic duct .
an endoderm derived structure that produces precursors of digestive enzymes and blood glucose regulating enzymes [ go ]  .
a trabecula that is part of a spleen .
the femoral nerve ,  the largest branch of the lumbar plexus ,  arises from the ventral divisions of the second ,  third ,  and fourth lumbar nerves .
transudate contained in the peritoneal cavity .
the acetabulum is a concave surface of the pelvis .
a ring of bone formed by the sacrum and the first few coccygeal vertebrae as the roof ,  the pubis and ischia as the floor and the ilia and the acetabular part of the ischia as the walls .
the organism subdivision that includes the pelvic girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a fused bone consisting of the ilium ,  ischium and and pubis .
paired endochondral bone that is the dorsal - most of the pelvic bones ,  offering attachment areas for gluteal muscles on its main surface  [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
endochondral bone that is paired ,  forming the posterior part of the pelvis ,  articulating with the pubis and ilium .
a paired endochondral bone making up the anteroventral region of the tripartite pelvic girdle forming part of the ventral edge of the acetabulum .
the epithelial layer of the stomach  .
epithelial layer that lines the intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a multi - organ - part structure that consists of three vessels of the portal lobule including the bile duct ,  a terminal branch of the hepatic artery and portal vein ,  and may also include a lymphatic vessel
the functional units of the liver including the lobules .
wide thin - walled blood vessels in the liver .
the tubules located between the bile canaliculi and interlobular bile ducts near the outer edge of a classic liver lobule
the basic functional unit of the kidney .
innermost region of the mammalian kidney .
the glandular mucous membrane lining of the uterine cavity that is hormonally responsive during the estrous / menstrual cycle and during pregnancy
outer serosa layer of the uterus .
the conic expansion of the corpus spongiosum that forms the head of the penis
the external sac of skin that encloses the testes .
the elongated structure connected to the posterior surface of the testis that transports ,  stores ,  and matures spermatozoa between testis and vas deferens
a fallopian tube that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a fallopian tube that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
layer of simple cuboidal cells covering surface of ovary [ wp ]  .
a capsule that surrounds a female gonad .
the external iliac artery is a large artery in the pelvic region that carries blood to the lower limb .
the internal iliac artery  ( formerly known as the hypogastric artery )  is the main artery of the pelvis .
the umbilical artery is a paired artery  ( with one for each half of the body )  that is found in the abdominal and pelvic regions .
an artery that supplies blood to the upper urinary bladder .
a vein that begins near the upper part of the greater sciatic foramen ,  passes upward behind and slightly medial to the hypogastric artery and ,  at the brim of the pelvis ,  joins with the external iliac to form the common iliac vein .
one the veins that drains the vaginal venous plexus ,  into the hypogastric veins .
a large nerve that supplies nearly the whole of the skin of the leg ,  the muscles of the back of the thigh ,  and those of the leg and foot .
the tibial nerve is a branch of the sciatic nerve .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the pelvis .
a portion of a prostate that forms a lobe .
the pampiniform plexus is a network of many small veins found in the male spermatic cord .
a zone of skin that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis and protects the urinary meatus when the penis is not erect .
a urethra that is part of a male reproductive system .
a urethra that is part of a female reproductive system .
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the male or female urethra that help protect the epithelium from the corrosive urine
the tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis occurs .
the epithelial layer of the vagina .
a collection of caudal vertebrae in the coccygeal region that are fused and part of the bony pelvis .
the upper dilated end of the nasolacrimal duct that is lodged in a deep groove formed by the lacrimal bone and frontal process of the maxilla ;  it connects the lacrimal canaliculi ,  which drain tears from the eye's surface ,  and the nasolacrimal duct ,  which conveys this fluid into the nasal cavity ;  like the nasolacrimal duct ,  the sac is lined by stratified columnar epithelium with mucus - secreting goblet cells ,  and is surrounded by connective tissue .
a tube running from the outer ear to the middle ear .
the anus and surrounding regions .
the profunda femoris artery  ( also known as the deep femoral artery ,  or the deep artery of the thigh )  is a branch of the femoral artery that ,  as its name suggests ,  travels more deeply  ( posteriorly )  than the rest of the femoral artery .
the medial circumflex femoral artery  ( internal circumflex artery ,  medial femoral circumflex artery )  is an artery in the upper thigh that helps supply blood to the neck of the femur .
a clear ,  colorless ,  bodily fluid ,  that occupies the subarachnoid space and the ventricular system around and inside the brain and spinal cord .
in the human body ,  the femoral vein is a blood vessel that accompanies the femoral artery in the femoral sheath .
the joint in the bony pelvis between the sacrum and the ilium of the pelvis ,  which are joined by strong ligaments .
the outer layer of peritoneum that is attached to the abdominal and pelvic walls .
one of the muscles belong to the group consisting of the rectus femoris and the three heads of the vastus  ( lateralis ,  medialis ,  intermedius )  .
the rectus femoris muscle is one of the four quadriceps muscles of the human body .
the vastus lateralis  ( vastus externus )  is the largest part of the quadriceps femoris .
the vastus medialis ,  often called the 'teardrop' muscle ,  is a medially located muscle of the quadriceps .
a muscle that is part of the region of the hindlimb between the pelvis and ankle .
the part of the cerebral cortex that receives projections from the motor thalamus and which projects to motor neurons in the brainstem and spinal cord .
a muscle that originates in the upper two - thirds of the lateral surface of the tibia and inserts into the medial cuneiform and first metatarsal bones of the foot .
the most superficial muscle of the triceps surae group ,  in the posterior portion of the lower hindleg .
a deep muscle of the triceps surae group ,  in the superficial posterior compartment of the leg .
artery that supplies the axilla
a zone of skin that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organism subdivision that includes the pectoral girdle skeleton and associated soft tissue .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a face  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the major preaxial endochondral bone in the anterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
the major postaxial endochondral bone in the anterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
endochondral proximal carpal bone articulating with the radius .
endochondral carpal bone articulating with the ulnare and the radiale .
anatomical system that is a multi - element ,  multi - tissue anatomical cluster that consists of the skeleton and the articular system .
a bone that is part of the carpal skeleton .
a phalanx that is part of a forelimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the head of a long bone that articulates with a neighboring skeletal element and is separated from the shaft by the epiphyseal plate until bone growth stops .
zone of long bone that is between the epiphysis and diaphysis .
the outer layers of solid ,  hard bone that covers spongy bone ;  consists of parallel osteons containing mineral deposits and interstitial lamellae
the collection of all skeletal elements in a free forelimb region .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb region .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a manus ,  which is the distal section of the anterior forelimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the neck by the plane of the superior thoracic aperture and from the abdomen internally by the inferior surface of the diaphragm and externally by the costal margin and associated with the thoracic vertebral column and ribcage and from the back of the thorax by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage ,  the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column and the posterior axillary lines ;  together with the abdomen and the perineum ,  it constitutes the trunk proper [ fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that is the collection of all skeletal elements in a pes ,  which is the distal section of the posterior hindlimb skeleton consisting of the mesopodium ,  the metapodium and the acropodium  ( e .g .
the major postaxial endochondral bone in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a bone that is part of the tarsal skeleton .
the metatarsus or metatarsal bones are a group of five long bones in the pes located between the tarsal bones of the hind -  and mid - pes and the phalanges of the toes .
a phalanx that is part of a hindlimb autopod [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the postaxial bone of the proximal tarsals series [ phenoscape ]  .
the oval - shaped tarsal bone found between the talus and the 3 cuneiform bones
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 1 .
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 2 .
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 3 .
a tarsal bone that is formed from distal tarsals 4 and 5 .
a subdivision of the head that has as parts the layers deep to the surface of the anterior surface ,  including the mouth ,  eyes ,  and nose  ( when present )  .
a zone of skin that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the forelimb extending from the shoulder to the autopod [ cjm ]  .
the elbow is the region surrounding the elbow - joint - the ginglymus or hinge joint in the middle of the arm .
1st  ( preaxial )  digit of the manus [ wikipedia ]  .
the hip region is located lateral to the gluteal region  ( i .e .
a segment of the hindlimb that corresponds to the joint connecting a hindlimb stylopod and zeugopod .
a digit that is part of a pes  ( foot )  .
a subdivision of the pectoral complex consisting of the structures in the region of the shoulder joint  ( which connects the humerus ,  scapula and clavicle )  .
the joint between adjacent vertebral bodies .
the sternoclavicular articulation is a double arthrodial joint composed of two portions separated by an articular disc .
the glenohumeral joint ,  commonly known as the shoulder joint ,  is a multiaxial synovial ball and socket joint and involves articulation between the glenoid fossa of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  and the head of the humerus  ( upper arm bone )  .
the loose fold of skin that covers the penis
the vaginal plexuses are placed at the sides of the vagina ;  they communicate with the uterine ,  vesical ,  and hemorrhoidal plexuses ,  and are drained by the vaginal veins ,  one on either side ,  into the hypogastric veins .
a vessel that contains or conveys lymph ,  that originates as an interfibrillar or intercellular cleft or space in a tissue or organ ,  and that if small has no distinct walls or walls composed only of endothelial cells and if large resembles a vein in structure [ bto ]  .
skeletal element that is composed of bone tissue .
a muscle of shoulder which attaches to the scapula ,  clavicle and humerus .
a sesamoid element that is composed of bone tissue .
a carpal bone that proximally_connected_to a forelimb zeugopod skeleton .
a distal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
any muscle organ that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a shoulder region .
an articular capsule  ( or joint capsule )  is an envelope surrounding a synovial joint .
the knee joint joins the thigh with the leg and consists of two articulations: one between the femur and tibia ,  and one between the femur and patella .
a synovial joint that connects the femur to the acetbulum of the innominate bone .
a skeletal joint that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the hindlimb autopod and zeugopod skeletons .
a skeletal joint that is part of a manus  ( hand )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the forelimb zeugopod and stylopod skeletons [ obol ]  .
a joint connecting the forelimb zeugopod skeleton with the carpal skeleton .
a nerve that supplies the upper limb ,  including the triceps brachii muscle of the arm ,  as well as all 12 muscles in the posterior osteofascial compartment of the forearm ,  as well as the associated joints and overlying skin .
the axillary nerve is a nerve of the human body ,  that comes off the posterior cord of the brachial plexus at the level of the axilla  ( armpit )  and carries nerve fibers from c5 and c6 .
muscles of the upper chest .
the ascending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system that lies between the heart and the arch of aorta [ go ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the interosseous muscles of the manus  ( hand )  .
the dorsal interossei of the hand are muscles that occupy the space between the metacarpals .
a muscle in the forelimb stylopod which in humans has several functions ,  the most important being to rotate the forearm and to flex the elbow .
the convex portion of the aorta between the ascending and descending parts of the aorta ;  branches from it include the brachiocephalic trunk ,  the left common carotid artery ,  and the left subclavian artery ;  the brachiocephalic trunk further splits to form the right subclavian artery and the right common carotid artery
the triceps brachii muscle  ( latin for 'three - headed' muscle of the arm ,  it is called a three headed muscle because there are three bundles of muscle ,  each of different origin ,  joining together at the elbow )  is the large muscle on the back of the human upper limb .
a zone of skin that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two - pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries [ go ]  .
the part of the aorta that extends from the origin at the heart to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest
abdominal part of aorta: the distal part of the descending aorta ,  which is the continuation of the thoracic part and gives rise to the inferior phrenic ,  lumbar ,  median sacral ,  superior and inferior mesenteric ,  middle suprarenal ,  renal ,  and testicular or ovarian arteries ,  and celiac trunk [ bto ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a joint that connects the radius and the ulna .
a bilaterally paired branched artery that originates from the aortic arches and divides into and includes as parts the internal and external carotid arteries [ cjm ]  .
the rightmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from in the neck from the brachiocephalic trunk .
a terminal branch of the left or right common carotid artery which supplies oxygenated blood to the brain and eyes [ mp ] 
one of two laterally paired arteries that supplies the pectoral appendages ,  usually branching from the dorsal aorta
the subclavian artery that supplies the right pectoral appendage
the first branch of the left and right subclavian arteries that merge to form the single midline basilar artery ;  branches of the vertebral arteries supply the musculature of the neck
the leftmost of the two common carotid arteries ,  originating from the aortic arch in the thorax .
the lymph nodes which drain the legs ;  contained in the popliteal fossa
the popliteal vein course runs alongside the popliteal artery but carries the blood from the knee joint and muscles in the thigh and calf back to the heart .
the dorsal metatarsal veins are veins which drain the metatarsus of the foot .
a zone of skin that is part of a hip region .
a tube extending from the mouth to the anus .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the urinary bladder and the urethra .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the nose and ends distally with the cricoid cartilage ,  before continuing to the trachea .
the segment of the respiratory tract that starts proximally with the trachea and includes all distal structures including the lungs [ wp , modified ] 
a group of muscles  ( or in some classifications ,  muscle bellies )  that are located under the jaw and attach to the base of the cranium and typically attaches to the hyoid apparatus via a common tendon .
the mylohyoid is a pharyngeal arch i muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors and is innervated by the nerve to mylohyoid and attaches to the midline raphe linking right and left mylohyoid and the mandible .
the geniohyoid is a muscle that attaches to the mandible and the hyoid apparatus and is innervated by the first cervical nerve  ( c1 )  .
intrinsic muscle of the larynx ,  innervated by the external division of the laryngeal nerve ,  a branch of the vagus nerve .
a fleshy subdivision of one side of the face bounded by an eye ,  ear and the nose .
the muscles associated with the larynx .
either of a pair of lingual muscles with origin in the mandible ,  with insertion to the lingual fascia below the mucous membrane and epiglottis ,  with nerve supply from the hypoglossal nerve ,  and whose action depresses and protrudes the tongue .
a muscle that attaches to the hyopid bone and to the tongue and is innervated by cranial nerve xii
the styloglossus ,  the shortest and smallest of the three styloid muscles ,  arises from the anterior and lateral surfaces of the styloid process ,  near its apex ,  and from the stylomandibular ligament .
the palatoglossus ,  glossopalatinus ,  or palatoglossal muscle is a small fleshy fasciculus ,  narrower in the middle than at either end ,  forming ,  with the mucous membrane covering its surface ,  the glossopalatine arch .
a muscle organ that attaches the tongue to some other structure .
the intrinsic tongue muscles are an integral part of the tongue and completely contained within the tongue that are innervated by cranial nerve xii .
a muscle innervated by a facial nerve .
a circumorbital muscle in the face that closes the eyelid [ hp ]  .
the levator labii superioris  ( or quadratus labii superioris )  is a broad sheet ,  the origin of which extends from the side of the nose to the zygomatic bone .
a muscle of facial expression ,  innervated by the facial nerve ,  attached to the skin of the lower lip ,  orbicularis oris muscle ,  and mandible ,  and superficial and lateral to the mentalis muscle .
the buccinator is a muscle that is attached to the mandible ,  skin ,  pterygomandibular raphe and maxilla ,  and is innervated by cranial nerve vii and participates in oropharyngeal behavior .
the subclavian artery that supplies the left pectoral appendage
a vein that carries deoxygenated blood from the upper half of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
one of two jugular veins that collect the blood from the brain ,  the superficial parts of the face ,  and the neck .
a vein that drains blood from the thymus .
the bronchial veins are small vessels that return blood from the larger bronchi and structures at the roots of the lungs .
a congregation of multiple veins .
pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors ,  is innervated by masseteric nerve branches of the trigeminal nerve  ( cn v )  ,  and attaches to mandible and zygomatic arch .
pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that is innervated by the deep temporal branches of the trigeminal nerve and attaches to the wall of the braincase  ( including the cranial vault )  and mandible .
the muscle that stabilizes the stapes bone .
the larger of the two muscles of the tympanic cavity ,  is contained in the bony canal above the osseous portion of the auditory tube .
skeletal muscle derived from cranial mesoderm and controls eye movements .
the medial rectus muscle is a muscle in the orbit .
the lateral rectus muscle is a muscle in the orbit .
the levator palpebrae superioris  ( or levator muscle of upper eyelid )  is the muscle in the orbit that elevates the superior  ( upper )  eyelid .
the ciliary muscle is a ring of smooth muscle in the middle layer of the eye that controls the eye's accommodation for viewing objects at varying distances and regulates the flow of aqueous humour through schlemm's canal .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the iris .
a smooth muscle of the eye ,  running radially in the iris that functions as a dilator .
the lingual artery arises from the external carotid between the superior thyroid and facial artery [ wp ]  .
a branch of the lingual artery that supplies the sublingual gland .
a branch of the external carotid artery that supplies structures of the face .
the occipital artery arises opposite the facial artery ,  its path is below the posterior belly of digastric to the occipital region .
an artery that supplies deep structures of the face .
the mental branch of inferior alveolar artery escapes with the nerve at the mental foramen ,  supplies the chin ,  and anastomoses with the submental and inferior labial arteries .
the buccal artery  ( buccinator artery )  is small and runs obliquely forward ,  between the pterygoideus internus and the insertion of the temporalis ,  to the outer surface of the buccinator ,  to which it is distributed ,  anastomosing with branches of the external maxillary and with the infraorbital .
the ophthalmic artery is a branch of the internal carotid artery which supplies branches to supply the eye and other structures in the orbit .
the central retinal artery  ( retinal artery )  branches off the ophthalmic artery ,  running inferior to the optic nerve within its dural sheath to the eyeball .
an artery that supplies the myocardium .
the lacrimal artery arises close to the optic foramen ,  and is one of the largest branches derived from the ophthalmic artery: not infrequently it is given off before the artery enters the orbit .
the dorsal nasal artery  ( nasal artery )  is an artery of the head .
one of a pair of right - sided and left - sided blood vessels in the circle of willis .
organ consisting of a tissue made up of various elongated cells that are specialized to contract and thus to produce movement and mechanical work [ go ]  .
a major lymphatic vessel that drains lymph from the lower body ,  left appendage ,  and left thorax into the junction of the left jugular and subclavian veins .
a major artery that supplues the hindbrain and runs along the ventral keel of the hindbrain .
the superior cerebellar artery  ( sca )  arises near the termination of the basilar artery .
an epithelial tube or tree of tibes that transports blood away from the heart [ modified from aeo definition ]  .
any of the tubular branching vessels that carry blood from the capillaries toward the heart .
a portal vein that transports nutrients from the digestive tract to the liver [ kardong ]  .
the first major branch of the abdominal aorta .
one of the dural venous sinuses and drains the superior sagittal sinus the occipital sinus and the straight sinus ,  and empties into the sigmoid sinus which in turn reaches the jugular bulb .
cranial nerve which connects the midbrain to the extra - ocular and intra - ocular muscles .
a cranial nerve that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that has three branches  -  the ophthalmic  ( supplying the skin of the nose and upper jaw )  ,  the maxillary and the mandibular  ( supplying the lower jaw )  .
cranial nerve that runs to the eye muscles .
cranial nerve that branches into the supraorbital  ( supplying the skin of the eye region and the lateral line organs here )  ,  the palatine  ( to the roof of the buccal cavity )  ,  and the hyomandibular  ( dividing into the jugular and mental branches )  .
cranial nerve that transmits sound and equilibrium  ( balance )  information from the inner ear to the brain .
cranial nerve that branches into the ramus communicans  ( to the skin )  ,  the pretrematic  ( to the walls of the pharynx and mouth ,  viscero - sensory fibers )  ,  and the larval post - trematic branch  ( lost in the adult )  .
cranial nerve that innervates the muscles of the tongue .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the right lung .
the pulmonary artery that supplies the left lung .
the anterior facial vein  ( facial vein )  commences at the side of the root of the nose ,  and is a direct continuation of the angular vein where it also receives a small nasal branch .
the cerebral veins are divisible into external and internal groups according to the outer surfaces or the inner parts of the hemispheres they drain into .
the triceps surae is a pair of muscles located at the calf  -  the gastrocnemius and the soleus .
the tibialis posterior is the most central of all the leg muscles ,  and is located in the posterior compartment of the leg .
a vein that drains the cerebellum .
a plexiform vein accompanying the masseteric artery that empty into the pterygoid venous plexus .
the cranial ganglion that is associated with and extends fibers into the trigeminal nerve .
the bone at the lower ,  posterior part of the skull
an unpaired bone situated at the base of the skull in front of the temporal bone and basilar part of the occipital bone .
the large ,  irregular bone located at the base and side of the skull ;  consists of three parts at birth: squamous ,  tympanic ,  and petrous
a bone in the skull that separates the nasal cavity from the brain .
the irregularly thin plate that forms part of the medial wall of the orbit behind the frontal process of the maxilla
one of two small oblong bones ,  varying in size and form in different individuals ;  they are placed side by side at the middle and upper part of the face ,  and form ,  by their junction ,  'the bridge' of the nose [ wp ]  .
a paired dermal bone situated in the mid - palate [ palaeos ]  .
the quadrilateral bone that forms the prominence of the cheek
a dentary bone that is the only bone in one of the lateral halves of the lower jaw skeleton .
a horseshoe shaped bone situated in the anterior midline of the neck between the chin and the thyroid cartilage .
one of 3 small bones contained within the middle ear space and serve to transmit sounds from the air to the fluid - filled labyrinth .
the stapes or stirrup is the stirrup - shaped small bone or ossicle in the middle ear which is attached to the incus laterally and to the fenestra ovalis ,  the 'oval window' medially .
the incus or anvil is the anvil - shaped small bone or ossicle in the middle ear .
the malleus or hammer is a hammer - shaped small bone or ossicle of the middle ear which connects with the incus and is attached to the inner surface of the eardrum .
sense organ in vertebrates that is specialized for the detection of sound ,  and the maintenance of balance .
part of the ear external to the tympanum  ( eardrum )  .
the petrous portion of the temporal bone or pyramid is pyramidal and is wedged in at the base of the skull between the sphenoid and occipital bones .
a bone which is fused with the temporal bone in many mammals and forms part of the cheek region articulating with quadrate and pterygoid in other vertebrates .
subdivision of skeleton that is an anterolateral part of the cranium and structurally supports the eye .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the facial nerve  ( seventh cranial nerve ) 
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the ninth cranial nerve .
any of the hairs that grow at the edge of the upper or lower eyelid .
subdivision of skeletal system that surrounds and protects the brain .
a horn - like keratin structure covering the dorsal aspect of the terminal phalanges of fingers and toes [ wp ]  .
the nasal septum separates the left and right airways in the nose ,  dividing the two nostrils .
an anatomical cavity that is part of the olfactory apparatus .
subdivision of skeleton which includes upper and lower jaw skeletons .
subdivision of head that consists of the upper jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
subdivision of head that consists of the lower jaw skeletal elements plus associated soft tissue  ( skin ,  lips ,  muscle )  [ cjm ]  .
a fold of skin that covers and protects part of the eyeball .
the groups of nerve cell bodies associated with the twelve cranial nerves
nuclear complex containing subnuclei that give rise to the axons of the occulomotor nerve ,  both motor and parasympathetic fibers ,  situated at the midline at the level of the superior colliculus in the midbrain tegmentum  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 533 - 534 )  .
the part of the palate formed from the fusion of the two palatine shelves ,  extensions of the maxillary prominences .
any of the nuclei of the cochlear nuclear complex .
a muscular organ in the floor of the mouth .
one of the paired paranasal sinuses ,  located in the body of the sphenoid bone and communicating with the highest meatus of the nasal cavity on the same side [ mesh ]  .
the cartilaginous joints of the skull ;  these include sphenoethmoidal synchondrosis ,  sphenooccipital synchondrosis ,  sphenopetrosal synchondrosis ,  petrooccipital synchondrosis ,  anterior intraoccipital synchondrosis and posterior intraoccipital synchondrosis .
a specialized receptor organ that is a collection of cells spanning the gustatory epithelium .
the section of the pharynx that lies above the soft palate
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pharynx .
the lymph tissue in the roof and posterior wall of the nasopharynx
the muscular ,  non - bony arch - shaped posterior portion of the palate extending from the posterior edge of the hard palate .
conic projection from the posterior edge of the middle of the soft palate ,  composed of connective tissue containing a number of racemose glands ,  and some muscular fibers .
the circular lymphoid tissue formed by the lingual ,  pharyngeal ,  and facial tonsils
either of the paired compound tubuloalveolar  ( aka tubuloacinar )  major salivary glands composed of both serous and mucous secretory cells and situated beneath the mandible .
a continuation of the pharynx that is involved in breathing ,  sound production ,  and protecting the trachea against food aspiration .
the largest of the laryngeal cartilages
the cartilaginous structures that support the larynx .
the paired triangular laryngeal cartilages located postlaterally at the level of the thyroid cartilage
the most superior of the laryngeal cartilages ,  which is found at the root of the tongue and folds back over the entrance to the larynx during swallowing .
a ligament that is part of a larynx and connexts the cartilages of the larynx
portion of connective tissue with various types of white blood cells enmeshed in it ,  most numerous being the lymphocytes [ wp ]  .
a lymphoid follicle that contains a germinal center .
a parenchyma that is part of a thyroid follicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense and irregular connective tissue capsule surrounding a parathyroid gland .
a parenchyma that is part of a parathyroid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a network of orbital structures of the eye that secrete and drain tears from the surface of the eyeball into the nasal cavity ;  these parts include the lacrimal glands ,  lacrimal lake ,  lacrimal ducts ,  lacrimal canals ,  lacrimal sacs ,  nasolacrimal ducts ,  and lacrimal puncta .
collagen - rich odontogenic tissue characteristic of teeth and tooth - like skeletal elements  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  ;  mature dentine is mineralized and develops from predentine tissue ;  often  ( but not always )  tubular and acellular .
a dentine - like hypermineralized substance that covers the tooth tip .
odontoid tissue that is deposited by cementoblasts onto dentine tissue and functions to attach teeth ,  odontodes and other odontogenic derivatives to bone tissue and the integument .
the part in the center of a tooth made up of living soft tissue and cells called odontoblasts [ wp ]  .
the middle ear is the air - filled cavity within the skull of vertebrates that lies between the outer ear and the inner ear .
the part of the ear that projects from the head ,  connecting to the external acoustic meatus .
the tissues that invest or help to invest and support the teeth ,  including the periodontal ligament ,  gingivae ,  cementum ,  and alveolar and supporting bone [ bto ]  .
cranial nerve that branches into the lateral  ( to body sense organs )  and the intestino - accessorial  ( to the skin ,  muscles of shoulder ,  hyoid ,  larynx ,  gut ,  lungs ,  and heart )  .
the frontal sinus occupies the dorsal part of the skull medial to the orbit .
a condensation of odontoblasts that forms the part of a tooth germ that gives rise to dentin and pulp in the mature tooth .
one of the paired paranasal sinuses ,  located in the body of the maxilla ,  communicating with the middle meatus of the nasal cavity .
epithelial tube that transports milk [ go ]  .
the space in the eye ,  filled with aqueous humor ,  and bounded anteriorly by the cornea and a small portion of the sclera and posteriorly by a small portion of the ciliary body ,  the iris ,  and part of the crystalline lens
the pigmented middle of the three concentric layers that make up an eye ,  consisting of the iris ,  ciliary body and choroid [ wp , edited ]  .
the adjustable membrane ,  composed of the stroma and pigmented epithelium ,  located just in front of the crystalline lens within the eye
the central circular aperture of the iris through which light rays enter the eye
the smooth stratified squamous epithelium that covers the outer surface of the cornea
opaque fibrous outer layer of the eyeball [ zfa , kardong , wp ]  .
a skeletal muscle organ that is part of the trunk region .
the thickened portion of the vascular tunic ,  which lies between the choroid and the iris ,  composed of ciliary muscle and ciliary processes
vascular layer containing connective tissue ,  of the eye lying between the retina and the sclera .
the lamellated connective tissue of the cornea between the bowman and descemet membranes
a double layer covering the ciliary body that produces aqueous humor .
the delicate vascular connective tissue that lies between the anterior surface of the iris and the pars iridica retinae .
the any of the paired peripheral nerves formed by the union of the dorsal and ventral spinal roots from each spinal cord segment [ mp , modified ] 
any of the layers that make up the retina [ mp ]  .
a monolayer of pigmented epithelium covering the neural retina ;  develops from the outer of the two layers of the optic cup [ zfa ]  .
the optic disc or optic nerve head is the location where ganglion cell axons exit the eye to form the optic nerve .
cranial nerves are nerves that emerge directly from the brain ,  in contrast to spinal nerves ,  which emerge from segments of the spinal cord .
a depression in the inner retinal surface within the macula lutea ,  the photoreceptor layer of which is entirely cones and which is specialized for maximum visual acuity
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell receptor segments reside .
the row of jucntional complexes between the plasma membranes of rod segments and the muller glia cells ;  this barrier separates the layer of inner and outer segments of the rods and cones from the outer nuclear layer and forms a blood - retina barrier [ mp ]  .
the layer within the retina where the photoreceptor cell bodies reside .
the layer within the retina where the bipolar cells synapse with the photoreceptor cells [ zfa ]  .
cytoarchitectural layer of retina containing closely packed cell bodies ,  the majority of which are bipolar cells  ( adapted from wikipedia )  .
cytoarchitectural layer of retina that contains somata of retinal ganglion cells ,  bounded by the stratum opticum and the inner plexiform layer
layer of the retina formed by expansion of the fibers of the optic nerve
the row of fused muller cell processes and astrocytes that separates the retinal nerve fiber layer from the vitreous [ mp ]  .
cytoarchitectural layer of the retina that is made up of a dense reticulum of fibrils formed by interlaced dendrites of retinal ganglion cells and cells of the inner nuclear layer  ( adapted from wikipedia ) 
a thick watery refractive medium that fills the space between the lens and the cornea [ wp ]  .
a transparent ,  semigelatinous substance that fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina
gelatinous mucoid tissue that is composed of vitreous humor and fills the cavity behind the crystalline lens of the eye and in front of the retina [ mp , modified ] 
the chamber in the eyeball enclosing the vitreous humor ,  bounded anteriorly by the lens and ciliary body and posteriorly by the posterior wall of the eyeball [ bto , modified ]  .
the clusters of neurons in the somatic peripheral nervous system which contain the cell bodies of sensory nerve axons ,  interneurons and non - neuronal supporting cells .
any of the parts of the eye that lie in front of ,  or ventral to ,  the lens  ( inclusive ) 
any of the parts of the eye that lie in back of ,  or dorsal to ,  the lens  ( but not inclusive ) 
a layer of epithelial cells that is part of the eye .
the elastic ,  clear ,  membrane - like structure ,  that is outer most layer of the lens
ganglion that has dendrites that form a junction between autonomic nerves originating from the central nervous system and autonomic nerves innervating their target organs in the periphery .
a ganglion of the sympathetic nervous system .
ganglion containing neurons that receive innervation from parasympathetic neurons in the central nervous system and subserves parasympathetic functions through innervation of smooth muscle ,  cardiac muscle and glands .
anatomical junction where subdivisions of two or more neural trees interconnect with one another to form a network through which nerve fibers of the constituent nerve trees become regrouped ;  together with other nerve plexuses ,  nerves and ganglia ,  it constitutes the peripheral nervous system .
the mucous membrane that lines the inner surface of the eyelids and the front of the eyeball
a thin transparent mucous membrane that covers the posterior surface of the eyelids and is continuous with the bulbar conjunctiva at the conjunctival fornicies .
an intermingling of fiber fascicles from adjacent spinal nerves to form a network .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine where it proceeds through the neck then the axilla and into the arm where it innervates skin and muscle .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the pelvic appendage where it innervates skin and muscle .
a nerve plexus that is part of an autonomic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lacrimal glands are paired almond - shaped glands ,  located in or near the orbital region ,  that secrete the aqueous layer of the tear film .
a modified lobulated sebaceous gland at the rim of an eyelid ,  responsible for the supply of meibum .
orifice separating upper and lower eyelids .
any of the coil glands of the skin that secrete sweat
a holocrine gland that secretes sebum into the hair follicles ,  or in hairless areas into ducts .
one of the cartilage structures in the nose that provide form and support [ wp ]  .
the mucous lining of the larynx ,  which is composed of squamous epithelium in the upper larynx and ciliated columnar epithelium in the lower larynx .
the paired air - filled cavities surrounded by the bones of the face that are lined by mucous membranes and are continuous with the nasal cavity
the mucous membrane that lines the nasal cavity [ mp ]  .
aqueous substance secreted by the lacrimal gland .
the fibrous investing tissue ,  covered by keratinized epithelium ,  that immediately surrounds a tooth and is contiguous with its periodontal ligament and with the mucosal tissues of the mouth [ glossary of periodontal terms 2001 ]  .
one of the three largest glands of the oral cavity that secrete most of the saliva ,  including the parotid ,  submandibular ,  and sublingual glands .
the parotid gland is the largest of the salivary glands .
the small mucin - producing salivary glands in the floor of the mouth beneath the tongue ,  anterior to the submandibular gland
one of the two fleshy folds which surround the opening of the mouth .
lip that covers the upper portion of the mouth .
lip that covers the lower portion of the mouth .
a fluid produced in the oral cavity by salivary glands ,  typically used in predigestion ,  but also in other functions .
the duct of a salivary gland .
a duct of a sublingual gland .
a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
one of three half - circular ,  interconnected tubes located inside each ear [ wp ]  .
the spiral - shaped bony canal in the inner ear containing the hair cells that transduce sound .
complex labyrinthine structure that comprises sensory endorgans specialized for vestibular ,  auditory ,  and acoustico - vestibular sensation .
the soft lower part of the external ear ,  projecting below the antitragus .
cartilage of the pinna and much of the external ear canal .
organ with organ cavity which consists of the vestibular labyrinth and the cochlear labyrinth .
a collection of channels that connects the conjunctival sac with the nasal cavity ,  encompassing the lacrimal ducts ,  the lacrimal sac and the naso - lacrimal duct .
outermost layer of an organ [ wp ]  .
an endolymph filled cavity inside the cochlea ,  located in between the scala tympani and the scala vestibuli ,  separated by the basilar membrane and reissner's membrane  ( the vestibular membrane )  respectively .
the part of the membranous labyrinth that includes the utricle and saccule lodged within the vestibule and the semicircular ducts lodged eccentrically in the corresponding canals .
fatty lubricant matter secreted by sebaceous glands ,  and made of made of triglyceride oils ,  wax ,  squalene ,  and metabolytes of fat - producing cells [ bto , wp ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a external ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of two bilateral ,  largely symmetrical organ subdivisions within the telencephalon which contain the cerebral cortex and cerebral white matter .
anterior portion of the neocortex ,  lying anterior to the central sulcus in humans .
lower lateral part of the cerebral hemisphere .
upper central part of the cerebral hemisphere .
subcortical nucleus of telecephalic origin consisting of an elongated gray mass lying lateral to and bordering the lateral ventricle .
subcortical nucleus of telencephalic  ,  which together with the caudate nucleus ,  forms the striatum .
subcortical nucleus ,  functionally part of the basal ganglia ,  which consists of two segments the external  ( or lateral )  and internal  ( or medial )  separated by the medial medullary lamina in primates .
a nerve that arises from the caudal cervical nerves and is primarily the motor nerve of the diaphragm but also sends sensory fibers to the pericardium .
part of the hippocampal formation forming a 'v' or 'u' shaped structure with the opening bounded by hippocampal area ca3 .
a network formed by blood vessels and the tela choroidea which secretes csf into the ventricular spaces .
white matter regional part of brain which is flanked by nuclear masses ,  consisting of both afferent and efferent fibers projecting between the cerebral cortex and the brainstem and spinal cord .
the most anterior region the brain including both the telencephalon and diencephalon .
the midbrain is the middle division of the three primary divisions of the developing chordate brain or the corresponding part of the adult brain  ( in vertebrates ,  includes a ventral part containing the cerebral peduncles and a dorsal tectum containing the corpora quadrigemina and that surrounds the aqueduct of sylvius connecting the third and fourth ventricles )  [ go ]  .
a segment of the developing hindbrain [ zfa ]  .
part of the forebrain consisting of paired olfactory bulbs and cerebral hemispheres .
the division of the forebrain that develops from the foremost primary cerebral vesicle .
rostral segment of the hindbrain that has as its parts the pons  ( where present )  and the cerebellum [ wp , modified ]  .
organ component of neuraxis that has as its parts the medullary reticular formation ,  inferior olivary complex and cochlear nuclear complex ,  among other structures [ fma ]  .
subcortical brain region consisting of paired gray matter bodies in the dorsal diencephalon and forming part of the lateral wall of the third ventricle of the brain .
a specialized brain region of the ventral diencephalon arising near the end of the segmentation period ;  the embryonic hypothalamic region will give rise to the posterior pituitary gland as well as a number of brain nuclei .
most dorsal part of the thalamus ,  comprising the pineal gland and habenular nuclei in most vertebrates .
the epithelial lining of the trachea which contains numerous ciliated cells
an epithelium that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a midline ,  cone like structure located in the dorso - caudal roof of the 3rd ventricle ,  attached by peduncles to the habenular and posterior commissures .
diencephalic white matter  ( tract )  which is comprised of retinal ganglion cell axons after which they have passed through the optic chiasm [ zfa ]  .
a specialized accessory gland of the skin of mammals that secretes milk .
organ component of the mammary gland which consists of an aggregate of mammary alveoli that communicate with a lobular lactiferous duct .
an emulsion of fat globules within a fluid that is secreted by the mammary gland during lactation .
an endothelium that is part of a capillary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venule  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vein  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
ventral part of the midbrain ,  separated from the hindbrain by the isthmus [ isbn:0471888893 ]  .
a multi - tissue structure that is part of a spinal cord .
a stratified squamous epithelium consisting of a basal layer ;  it is keratinized or parakeratinized [ bto ]  .
an area of cerebral cortex defined on the basis of cytoarchitecture that have six layers .
an epithelium that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a part of the brain consisting of a three layered cortex located in the forebrain bordering the medial surface of the lateral ventricle .
the hyaline cartilaginous structures that support the bronchi ,  present as irregular rings in the larger bronchi  ( and not as regular as in the trachea )  ,  and as small plates and islands in the smaller bronchi ;  as the branching continues through the bronchial tree ,  the amount of hyaline cartilage in the walls decreases until it is absent in the smallest bronchioles [ mp ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines a terminal bronchiole .
the parenchymatous tissue of the spleen that surrounds splenic blood vessels ,  consists of compact masses of lymphatic cells and is where foreign material removed from the blood is used to initiate an immune reaction that results in the production of antibodies
diffuse system of small concentrations of lymphoid tissue found in various sites of the body such as the gastrointestinal tract ,  thyroid ,  breast ,  lung ,  salivary glands ,  eye ,  and skin [ wp ]  .
mucosa - associated lymphoid tissue in digestive tract .
a diffuse collection of lymphpoid cells that participate in airway immune responses
organism substance that is composed of sperm cells suspended in seminal fluid .
the liquid component of blood ,  in which erythrocytes are suspended .
vital aqueous secretion of the liver that is formed by hepatocytes and modified down stream by absorptive and secretory properties of the bile duct epithelium .
a submucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer that lines the luminal space of the esophagus
the portion of blood plasma that excludes clotting factors .
one of the minute vessels that collect deoxygenated blood from the capillary plexuses returns it to the veins
the smallest division of the artery located between the muscular arteries and the capillaries [ go ]  .
a vessel through which blood circulates in the body .
any of the smallest blood vessels connecting arterioles with venules .
a monolayer of specialized ,  flattened ,  mitochondria - rich cells that lines the posterior surface of the cornea and faces the anterior chamber of the eye [ wp ]  .
a layer of epithelium that lines the heart ,  blood vessels  ( endothelium ,  vascular )  ,  lymph vessels  ( endothelium ,  lymphatic )  ,  and the serous cavities of the body [ mesh ]  .
organ of metabolic interchange between fetus and mother ,  partly of embryonic origin and partly of maternal origin [ go ]  .
portion of semisolid bodily waste discharged through the anus [ mw , modified ] 
cartilage tissue primarily composed of type ii collagen  ( thin fibrils )  and a glassy appearance .
cartilage tissue intermediate between hyaline cartilage and dense connective tissue ;  contains of abundant collagen fibers ;  chondrocytes often arranged in columns .
cartilage tissue that is flexible and contains abundant elastic fibers .
on of the muscles that make up the buttocks: the gluteus maximus muscle ,  gluteus medius muscle and gluteus minimus muscle .
any joint that connects a rib to another structure  ( or another rib )  .
the enteric nervous system is composed of two ganglionated neural plexuses in the gut wall which form one of the three major divisions of the autonomic nervous system .
peripheral portion of the lymph node ,  underneath the capsule [ wp ]  .
the mdeullary portion of the lymph node ,  which contains large blood vessels ,  sinuses and medullary cords that contain antibody - secreting plasma cells .
a plexus of nerves situated at the base of the heart that innervate the heart .
the thoracodorsal artery is a branch of the subscapular artery .
an artery that carries deoxygenated blood from heart to the lungs .
the tough fibrous layer surrounding the kidney which is covered in a thick layer of perirenal adipose tissue that functions to provide some protection from trauma and damage
pulmonary veins are blood vessels that transport blood from the lungs to the heart [ go ]  .
a vein that conducts blood from the digestive organs ,  spleen ,  pancreas ,  and gallbladder to the liver [ bto ]  .
a cranial nerve that originates from neurons in the medulla and in the cervical spinal cord .
a nervous system structure composed primarily of nerve cell bodies  ( somas )  .
the deepest layer of the epidermis ,  which is composed of dividing stem cells and anchoring cells
the layer of polyhedral cells in the epidermis found between the stratum granulosum and stratum basale ;  shrinkage and adhesion of these cells gives a spiny or prickly appearance
the outer layer of the epidermis ,  consisting of several layers of flat keratinized non - nucleated cells
the most posterior of the three principal regions of the brain .
the simple columnar epithelial lining of the gall bladder .
projection of skin containing the outlets for 15 - 20 lactiferous ducts arranged cylindrically around the tip .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of breast which consists of skin ,  connective tissue and smooth muscle bundle and modified sebaceous glands and which surrounds the nipple .
a tiny smooth muscle that connects the hair follicle with the dermis .
muscle tissue that contains fibers that are divided by transverse bands into striations .
part of the metencephalon that lies in the posterior cranial fossa behind the brain stem .
predominantly gray matter midbrain structure lying dorsal to the crus cerebri and ventral to the midbrain tegmentum .
a systemic artery that supplies the lung with with oxygenated blood .
an endothelium that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a two - lobed endocrine gland found in all vertebrates ,  located in front of and on either side of the trachea in humans ,  and producing various hormones ,  such as triiodothyronine and calcitonin [ bto ]  .
the pontine raphe nucleus is one of the raphe nuclei .
respiration organ that develops as an outpocketing of the esophagus .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure contains fluid that is actively transported around the organism [ zfa ]  .
anatomical structure that is part of an embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thick capsule of dense irregular connective tissue that surrounds each adrenal gland and contains scattered elastic fibers ;  the capsule contains a rich plexus of blood vessels  ( mainly small arteries )  and numerous nerve fibers ;  some blood vessels and nerves enter the substance of the gland in the trabeculae that extend inward from the capsule and then leave the trabeculae to enter the cortex .
each renal artery gives off some small inferior suprarenal branches to the suprarenal gland ,  the ureter ,  and the surrounding cellular tissue and muscles .
an artery that supplies the diaphragm
a parasympathetic ganglion located in the posterior orbit that contains preganglionic nerves and postganglionic neurons of the oculomotor nerve ,  connects to the edinger - westphal nucleus via the oculomotor nerve and the eye muscles via the short ciliary nerve .
the ganglion associated with the lingual nerve that provides postsynaptic fibers to the submandibular and sublingual glands
the femoral artery is a large artery in the muscles of the thigh .
the endocardial cushion is a specialized region of mesenchymal cells that will give rise to the heart septa and valves [ go ]  .
the sinus venosus is a large cardiac chamber at the inflow tract that receives venous blood from systemic circulation .
one of two paired cardinal veins that return blood from the body of the embryo [ kardong ] 
the dermis is a layer of skin between the epidermis  ( with which it makes up the skin )  and subcutaneous tissues ,  and is composed of two layers ,  the papillary and reticular dermis [ wp ]  .
a fibrous remnant of the allantoic stalk ,  a narrow fetal canal connecting the apex of the urinary bladder with the umbilicus located in the space of retzius ,  between the transversalis fascia anteriorly and the peritoneum posteriorly .
the layer of flattened cells containing basophilic granules of keratohyalin and lying just above the stratum spinosum  ( spiny layer )  of the epidermis
lowermost layer of the integumentary system in vertebrates .
a tube - like opening in the epidermis where the hair shaft develops and into which the sebaceous glands open [ go ]  .
the main part of the hair which is composed of trichocytes and is divided into the cortex and medulla .
an organ that is located within the body cavity  ( or in its extension ,  in the scrotum )  ;  it consists of organ parts that are embryologically derived from endoderm ,  splanchnic mesoderm or intermediate mesoderm ;  together with other organs ,  the viscus constitutes the respiratory ,  gastrointestinal ,  urinary ,  reproductive and immune systems ,  or is the central organ of the cardiovascular system .
smooth and glossy outer protective cell layer of hair shaft
a cortex that is part of a hair  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac atrium that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the right side of the heart .
cardiac chamber in which blood enters the heart .
cardiac chamber through which blood leaves the heart .
a cardiac ventricle that is in the left side of the heart .
a cardiac septum that divides the left and right atria of the heart .
the part of the heart connecting the atrium to the cardiac ventricle [ zfa ]  .
companion vein of the thoracodorsal artery ,  draining the apical part of the latissimus dorsi and merging with the circumflex scapular vein to form a subscapular vein
the postcranial subdivision of skeleton structural components forming the long axis of the vertebrate body ;  in danio ,  consisting of the notochord ,  vertebrae ,  ribs ,  supraneurals ,  intermuscular bones ,  and unpaired median fins ;  in human consists of the bones of the vertebral column ,  the thoracic cage and the pelvis [ zfa + fma ]  .
subdivision of skeleton which which consists of all the skeletal elements in in the pectoral and pelvic appendage complexes [ cjm ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the outer of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity ;  consists of two layers including the periosteal layer and the meningeal layer .
a dura mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cardiac septum which separates the right ventricle from the left ventricle .
anatomical organ component composed of a double layer of serous membrane that suspends a viscus from the body wall or connects adjacent viscera and in doing so conveys blood vessels ,  lymphatics and nerves to and from the viscera .
the organ covering the body that consists of the dermis and epidermis .
the thin membranous structure between the two heart atria or the thick muscular structure between the two heart ventricles .
organism subdivision which is the part of the body posterior to the cervical region  ( or head ,  when cervical region not present )  and anterior to the caudal region .
a paired appendage that is evolved from a paired fin .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pectoral girdle .
a  ( free )  limb that is connected to a pelvic girdle region .
the sensory system subserving the sense of vision .
sensory system responsible for the perception of spatial orientation and auditory stimuli .
the organ that functions to filter blood and to store red corpuscles and platelets
an exocrine gland which secretes bile and functions in metabolism of protein and carbohydrate and fat ,  synthesizes substances involved in the clotting of the blood ,  synthesizes vitamin a ,  detoxifies poisonous substances ,  stores glycogen ,  and breaks down worn - out erythrocytes [ go ]  .
subdivision of digestive tract that connects the stomach to the large intestine and is where much of the digestion and absorption of food takes place  ( with the exception of ruminants )  .
pair of nostrils .
an organ that aids digestion and stores bile produced by the liver [ wp ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an artery  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a paired organ of the urinary tract which has the production of urine as its primary function .
the first part of the small intestine .
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the duodenum to the ileum
the portion of the small intestine that extends from the jejunum to the colon
an ovary that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ovary that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
in mammals ,  the pronephros is the first of the three embryonic kidneys to be established and exists only transiently .
the fibrous connective tissue surrounding the thymus .
the outer part of a thymus lobule that surrounds the medulla and is composed of closely packed lymphocytes
medullary portion of thymus .the reticulum is coarser than in the cortex ,  the lymphoid cells are relatively fewer in number ,  and there are found peculiar nest - like bodies ,  the concentric corpuscles of hassall .
a lobule that is part of a thymus .
a a collection of brainstem nuclei that functions in multiple aspects of hearing and is an important component of the ascending and descending auditory pathways of the auditory system .
the superficial gray matter of the cerebellum .
the gray matter nuclei located in the center of the cerebellum ,  embedded in the white matter ,  which receive inhibitory  ( gabaergic )  inputs from purkinje cells in the cerebellar cortex and excitatory  ( glutamatergic )  inputs from mossy fiber pathways ;  all output fibers of the cerebellum originate from the these nuclei [ mp ] 
the largest and most lateral of the deep cerebellum nuclei ;  it receives axons of purkinje cells in the lateral cerebellar hemisphere  ( neocerebellum )  and receives its afferents from the premotor cortex and the supplementary motor cortex through the pontocerebellar system ,  and its efferents project through the superior cerebellar peduncle and is a major source of its fibers
a cardial valve in the atrioventricular region that separates the atrium from the ventricle and prevent backflow from the ventricles into the atria during systole .
an atrioventricular valve that is part of the outflow part of the right atrium .
an atrioventricular valve that is part of the outflow part of the left atrium .
cardiac valve which has as its parts the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior cusps ,  attached to the fibrous ring of aortic valve .
the semilunar valve of the heart that lies between the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery .
the locus ceruleus is a dense cluster of neurons within the dorsorostral pons .
nucleus containing parasympathetic neurons giving rise to the parasympathetic division of the facial nerve ,  innervating the salivary glands  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 703 )  .
a composite structure of the brain stem ,  which in neuronames is subdivided into the superior cerebellar peduncle of pons ,  the decussation of superior cerebellar peduncle and the superior cerebellar peduncle of midbrain  ( mm )  .
regional part of medullary white matter  ( according to neuronames )  primarily found at the level of the pons ,  consisting of a very large bundle of fibers originating in the pontine nuclei projecting to the cerebellum  ( mm )  .
the endocardium is an anatomical structure comprised of an endothelium and an extracellular matrix that forms the innermost layer of tissue of the heart ,  and lines the heart chambers [ go ]  .
endocardium that is part of the atrium .
lung which consists of the right upper lobe ,  middle lobe and right lower lobe .
lung which consists of the left upper lobe and left lower lobe .
the white substance of the spinal cord lying on either side between the ventral median fissure and the ventral roots of the spinal nerves .
the upper conducting airways of the lung ;  these airways arise from the terminus of the trachea
the conducting airway of the lungs found terminal to the bronchi ;  these structures contain neither cartilage nor mucous - secreting glands ;  the epithelium of the bronchioles becomes thinner with each branching
the last conducting structure of non - respiratory bronchioles ;  after this point ,  the airways have alveoli in their walls
a portion of adipose tissue that is part of the hypodermis ,  beneath the dermis .
part of the hippocampal formation that is bounded by the entorhinal cortex and area ca1 .
anatomical cluster consisting of the hematopoietic system and the lymphoid system ,  or its analogs .
capsule surrounding lymph node composed of connective tissue with some plain muscle fibers .
membranous process coming from capsule of lymph node [ wp ]  .
the glandular ,  anterior lobe of the pituitary gland .
the posterior part of the pituitary gland that secretes hormones involved in blood pressure regulation such as oxytocin and antidiuretic hormon .
the dermis ,  epidermis and hypodermis .
vasculature that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a trachea .
vasculature that is part of the eye region .
anatomical system that consists of the muscular and skeletal systems .
a cartilaginous extension to the distal part of the sternum .
one of the bony segments of the sternum [ tfd ]  .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the vertebral column and the limbs as well as articulating ossicles ,  are connected by skeletal ligaments or membranes .
nonsynovial joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by hyaline cartilage .
cartilaginous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by fibrocartilage .
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by an articular capsule which encloses a synovial membrane and a synovial cavity .
anatomical structure that is a membranous gap between bones of the skull [ tao ]  .
the part of the coelemic cavity lumen that is enclosed by the walls of the thorax .
an intersegmental rod - shaped bone that forms in the peritoneal membrane and attach to the vertebral parapophyses .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the tubercle of a rib is an eminence on the posterior surface ,  at the junction of the neck and body of the rib ,  and nearer the lower than the upper border .
the nonvascular ,  resilient ,  flexible hyaline connective tissue that connects the end of a true rib to the sternum or the end of a false rib with the with the lower border of the costal cartilage above it
a rib that is ventrally connected to the sternum .
a rib that is not directly ventrally connected to the sternum .
a rib that is not connected to sternum or sternal cartilage .
part of the central nervous system located in the vertebral canal continuous with and caudal to the brain ;  demarcated from brain by plane of foramen magnum .
endoskeletal elements that encase the brain ,  nose ,  inner ear [ cjm ]  .
the jelly - like substance in the middle of the spinal disc which is a remnant of the notochord
one of the bones of the upper jaw situated between and in front of the maxillae [ vhog ]  .
a paired regions of the cerebellum that lie outside and lateral to the central vermis [ mp ]  .
the ventral grey column of the spinal cord [ mp ]  .
the white substance of the spinal cord lying on either side between the posterior median sulcus and the dorsal root .
the lentiform nucleus or lenticular nucleus comprises the putamen and the globus pallidus within the basal ganglia .
a bulbous anterior projection of the olfactory lobe that is the place of termination of the olfactory nerves and is especially well developed in lower vertebrates  ( as fishes )  [ bto ]  .
white matter tract that contains projections from the olfactory bulb to other parts of the brain
an organ that houses olfactory neurons and is responsible for the sense of smell .
an artery that is part of the optic stalk of the eye and extends from the optic disc through the vitreous humor to the lens .
a composite substructure of the brainstem that consists of the midbrain reticular formation ,  the pontine reticular formation and the medullary reticular formation  (  carpenter - 1983  )  .
at the hinder part of the medial wall of the vestibule is the orifice of the vestibular aqueduct ,  which extends to the posterior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone .
a brain ventricle that is part of a telencephalon .
part of the ventricular system of the brain ,  forming a single large cavity in the midline of the diencephalon ;  it is continuous with the lateral ventricles through the interventricular foramen and the fourth ventricle through the cerebral aqueduct .
part of choroid plexus contained in the third ventricle
part of ventricular system of brain consisting of a narrow channel in the midbrain connecting the third and fourth ventricles .
choroid plexus of the fourth ventricle
spinal cord structure that is part of the ventricular system and is filled with cerebral - spinal fluid and runs the length of the spinal cord .
a bars of hyaline cartilage located between the distal part of a rib and a costal cartilage ,  connecting the ribs to the sternum  .
organ system subdivision that consists of the organs and ducts that are involved in the production and transportation of bile .
the mesentery that originates from the dorsal side of the peritoneal cavity [ zfa ]  .
stalk - like part of the brain that includes amongst its parts the medulla oblongata of the hindbrain and the tegmentum of the midbrain [ zfa , mp , generalized ]  .
one of the layers of the neocortex .
the atrial part of middle layer of the heart ,  comprised of involuntary muscle
one of the three layers of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation .
the layers of the laminar structure of the hippocampus .
part of choroid plexus contained in the lateral ventricle
a neural nucleus that is part of the brain .
the ridge - shaped grey matter of the spinal cord that extends longitudunally through the center of each half of the spinal cord ,  and are largely or entirely composed of nerve cell bodies and their dendrites and some supportive tissue .
neural tissue consisting of myelinated axons connecting grey matter areas of the central nervous system .
regional part of cerebellum consisting of the myelinated axons lying deep to the granule cell layer ,  excluding the deep cerebellar nuclei and the cerebellar peduncles .
the regions of the spinal cord that are largely or entirely composed of myelinated nerve cell axons and contain few or no neural cell bodies or dendrites .
the inner layer of the glomerulus ,  within the basement membrane surrounding the glomerular capillaries .
the cavity within the body of all animals higher than the coelenterates and certain primitive worms ,  formed by the splitting of the embryonic mesoderm into two layers .
any muscle organ that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the urethra is a renal system organ that carries urine from the bladder to outside the body .
a lamina propria that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a flexible rod - shaped body found in embryos of all chordates .
somites are spheres of epithelial cells that form sequentially along the anterior - posterior axis of the embryo through mesenchymal to epithelial transition of the presomitic mesoderm .
anatomical system that consists of the glands and parts of glands that produce exocrine secretions and help to integrate and control bodily metabolic activity .
the connecting cord from the developing embryo to the placenta .
an arterial trunk which is continuous with the heart and branches into the pulmonary arteries .
the duct of the submadibular gland that opens at the sublingual papilla near the frenulum of the tongue
white matter structure containing massive numbers of commissural fibers connecting cortical areas in the two cerebral hemispheres .it is subdivided into a genu ,  a rostrum ,  a body ,  and a splenium .
the layer of connective tissue comprised of the endometrial lining of the uterus which fluctuates in thickness throughout the menstrual cycle .
a lamina propria that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a specialized region of ectoderm found between the neural ectoderm  ( neural plate )  and non - neural ectoderm and composed of highly migratory pluripotent cells that delaminate in early embryonic development from the dorsal neural tube and give rise to an astounding variety of differentiated cell types [ mp ]  .
set of all muscles in abdomen .
the part of the aorta that extends from the arch of the aorta to the diaphragm ,  and from which arises numerous branches that supply oxygenated blood to the chest cage and the organs within the chest .
embryonic ectoderm that gives rise to nervous tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a region of the serous membrane that forms the innermost layer of the pericardium and the outer surface of the heart .
the middle layer of the heart ,  comprised mainly of striated cardiac muscle fibers
the cardiac conduction system consists of specialized cardiomyocytes that regulate the frequency of heart beat [ go ] 
an area of conducting tissue between the atria and the ventricles of the heart that conducts the normal electrical impulse from the atria to the ventricles .
the lower segment of the trunk ,  inferioposterior to the abdomen proper ,  in the transition area between the trunk and the lower limbs .
subdivision of trunk proper ,  which is demarcated from the pelvis by the inferior surface of the pelvic diaphragm and from the lower limbs by the perineofemoral lines ;  together with the thorax ,  abdomen ,  and pelvis ,  it constitutes the trunk [ fma ]  .
serous membrane which is divided into parietal and visceral serous pericardium .
a serous membrane that lines the peritoneal cavity [ vhog , modified ]  .
membrane organ which is attached to the pericardial sac proper and the central tendon of diaphragm and is continuous with the pretracheal fascia .
membrane organ that surrounds the brain and the spinal cord .
the innermost layer of the leptomeninges ,  consisting of a delicate membrane closely covering the surface of the brain and spinal cord , and lying under the arachnoid membrane .
a think avascular meningeal layer ,  between the pia mater and the dural mater .
thick ,  fibrous meningeal covering surrounding the brain and spinal cord .
a thin membrane that separates the external ear from the middle ear ,  consisting of two epithelia  ( one part of the the external accoustic meatus epithelium ,  the other part of the tympanic cavity epithelium )  with a fibrous layer between them .
a gland that secretes products  ( excluding hormones and other chemical messengers )  into ducts  ( duct glands )  which lead directly into the external environment [ wp ]  .
the prostate gland is a partly muscular ,  partly glandular body that is situated near the base of the mammalian male urethra and secretes an alkaline viscid fluid which is a major constituent of the ejaculatory fluid .
endocrine glands are glands of the endocrine system that secrete their products directly into the circulatory system rather than through a duct .
either of a pair of complex endocrine organs near the anterior medial border of the kidney consisting of a mesodermal cortex that produces glucocorticoid ,  mineralocorticoid ,  and androgenic hormones and an ectodermal medulla that produces epinephrine and norepinephrine [ bto ]  .
anatomical structure of largely lymphoid tissue that functions in cell - mediated immunity by being the site where t cells develop .
the soft tissue that fills the cavities of bones
either of the two small almond - shaped masses of lymph tissue found on either side of the oropharynx
a bone that is part of the metacarpal skeleton .
a cartilaginous ring that provides support for the arytenoid cartilages and forms the caudal part of the larynx .
any skeletal muscle that is part of the head region .
any muscle that is part of the cervical  ( neck )  region .
muscle  ( organ )  which is a part of the abdomen .
any muscle organ that is part of a perineum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a large superficial muscle that extends longitudinally from the occipital bone to the lower thoracic vertebrae and laterally to the spine of the scapula  ( shoulder blade )  .
the pectoralis major is a thick ,  fan - shaped muscle ,  situated at the upper front of the chest wall .
the rectus abdominis muscle is a paired muscle running vertically on each side of the anterior wall of the abdomen .
tissue with cells that deposit non - polarized extracellular matrix including connective tissue fibers and ground substance .
muscle tissue is a contractile tissue made up of actin and myosin fibers [ go ]  .
the middle limb segment of the pectoral free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
distal portion of the hind limb ,  including tarsal region ,  metatarsal region and digits .
a digit that is part of a manus  ( hand )  .
anatomical system that is involved in the production of hematopoietic cells .
lymph is the fluid that is formed when interstitial fluid enters the conduits of the lymphatic system through lymph capillaries [ wp ]  .
the paired channels leading from the lacrimal sacs to the inferior meatus of the nose ,  through which tears are conducted through the nasal cavity
organ with organ cavity which connects the cavity of the middle ear to the cavity of the pharynx .
any of the ducts that form the biliary tree ,  carrying bile from the liver to the small intestine .
a proximal tarsal bone resulting from fusion of intermedium and fibulare .
the triangular flat bone of the nasal septum
the bone which normally forms the lateral upper jaw in osteichthyans ,  including tetrapods .
distal segment of the fore limb ,  including carpal region ,  metacarpal region and digits .
the outer serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the inner serous membrane of the pulmonary pleural .
the fluid - filled cavity that lies between the visceral and parietal pleurae .
anatomical system that protects the body from foreign substances ,  cells ,  and tissues by producing the immune response and that includes especially the thymus ,  spleen ,  lymphoid tissue ,  lymphocytes including the b cells and t cells ,  and antibodies .
a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels .
the combination of pericardial sac  ( a double - walled sac containing the heart and the roots of the great vessels )  plus fibrous pericardium .
parietal serous membrane which is part of the pericardium and forms the outer layer of the pericardial sac .
transudate contained in the pericardial cavity .
the autonomic nervous system is composed of neurons that are not under conscious control ,  and is comprised of two antagonistic components ,  the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems .
the small ,  erectile body located at the anterior end of the vulva
the ossified form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
a vertebra that is located in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
large vertebra of the movable part of the vertebral column ,  characterized by the absence of the foramen transversarium within the transverse process ,  and by the absence of facets on the sides of the body .
an external caudal extension of the body .
connected anatomical system that forms a barrier between an animal and its environment .
the abdominal segment of the torso .
skeletal tissue that is avascular ,  rich in glycosaminoglycans  ( gags )  and typically includes chondrocytes within isolated lacunae .
a gland that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an individual member of a collection of basal ganglia .
hippocampus  ( proper )  plus dentate gyrus and subiculum [ definition derived from nif comments and ontology alignment ]  .
part of the ventricular system of the brain ,  forming a single large irregularly shaped cavity located on the midline of the rhombencephalon ,  between the medulla ,  pons and the isthmus ventrally and the cerebellum dorsally .
the part of the digestive system that contains the liver and the biliary system
an epithelium that is part of the mouth and lines the oral cavity ,  typically stratified squamous ,  and may be para -  ,  ortho -  or non -  keratinized .
visceral serous membrane which is continuous with the parietal serous pericardium and is attached to the myocardium [ fma ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
cervical lymph nodes are lymph nodes found in the neck .
a region of the forebrain consisting of the caudate nucleus ,  putamen and fundus striati .
white matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
a blood vessel that is part of a choroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the postaxial bone of the proximal carpal region .
a large sesamoid bone found in the distal femur / proximal tibial region of the hindlimb of tetrapods .
the mucous secreting gland associated with the mucuous membrane lining the uterus .
the evaginations of the mucous membrane of the nasal cavity into the ethmoidal bony labyrinth ,  forming multiple small paranasal sinuses
an artery that supplies the anterior chest wall and the breasts .
the small branching sprouts of the dorsal aorta that grow across the medial surface of the somite ,  turn right angles to grow over that surface and then fuse with other sprouts and form the vertebral arteries adjacent to the neural tube ;  the intersomitic arteries supply the body wall and persist in the adult as the posterior intercostal ,  subcostal and the lumbar arteries
arteries that supply the spinal cord .
a blood vessel that drains from from an lower eyelid .
a tributary of the iliac vein that drains the urinary bladder .
any skeletal muscle organ that is part of a anterior abdominal wall .
any of the posterior thigh muscles .
the lymphatic system in vertebrates is a network of conduits that carry a clear fluid called lymph .
clear to pale yellow watery secretions from the glands lining the small intestine walls .
a mucosa that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
terminal segment of free limb ,  immediately distal to the zeugopod region .
the middle free limb segment ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
the proximal free limb segment .
a commissure that connects the two cerebral hemispheres .
a composite structure of the brain stem ,  which is subdivided into the superior cerebellar peduncle of pons ,  the decussation of superior cerebellar peduncle and the superior cerebellar peduncle of midbrain  ( mm )  [ nif ,  based on nn ]  .
the bone that is situated in the orbit on either side of the presphenoid ;  it generally forms a part of the sphenoid in the adult ,  and may be independent in the young
skeletal tissue with a collagen - rich extracellular matrix vascularized ,  mineralized with hydroxyapatite and typically including osteocytes located in lacunae that communicate with one another by cell processes  ( in canaliculi )  .
bone tissue that has a regular parallel alignment of collagen into sheets  ( lamellae )  and is mechanically strong .
bone tissue that has a lattice - like or spongy structure ;  it is highly vascular and contains intercommunicating spaces filled with bone marrow
the medullary cavities of the bones where bone marrow is stored
the minute canals that pass the prostatic secretions to the urethra .
the vocal apparatus of the larynx ,  which includes the vocal cords and the opening between them
the helix is the prominent rim of the pinna .
the dense ,  fibrous connective tissue joint between the tetrapod parietal bones and the frontal bone
a suture that connects the two frontal bones of the skull .
the dense ,  fibrous connective tissue joint between the parietal bones and the occipital bone
the dense ,  fibrous connective tissue joint between the tetrapod parietal bones
long bone is a limb bone that is subcylindrical and has a shaft with periosteum separating the ends of the bones .
region of the scapula where the latter meets with the clavicle: attachment point of the clavicle to the scapula in some taxa .
a rough elevation at the middle of the lateral side of the shaft of the humerus to which the deltoid muscle attaches
the labyrinth is a system of fluid passages in the inner ear ,  including both the cochlea ,  which is part of the auditory system ,  and the vestibular system ,  which provides the sense of balance .
the bony arch in vertebrates that extends along the side or front of the skull beneath the eye socket and is formed by the temporal process of the zygomatic bone and the zygomatic process of the temporal bone
the greater trochanter  ( great trochanter )  of the femur is a large ,  irregular ,  quadrilateral eminence and a part of the skeletal system .
the lesser trochanter  ( small trochanter )  of the femur is a conical eminence ,  which varies in size in different subjects  [ wp , unvetted ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the lymph nodes located in the mesentery ,  of which there are 3 classes: ileocolic ,  juxtaintestinal mesenteric ,  and central superior group .
in humans ,  the anterior fontanelle  ( bregmatic fontanelle ,  frontal fontanelle )  is the largest ,  and is placed at the junction of the sagittal suture ,  coronal suture ,  and frontal suture ;  it is lozenge - shaped ,  and measures about 4 cm in its antero - posterior and 2 .5 cm in its transverse diameter .
replacement bone that forms within cartilage .
bone tissue forms directly within mesenchyme ,  and does not replace other tissues [ tao ]  .
the thick fibrous membrane that closely invests the entire surface of a bone except the articular cartilage at synovial joints
a hyaline cartilage plate in the metaphysis at each end of a long bone .
the base of skull is the most inferior area of the skull ,  composed of the endocranium and lower parts of the skull roof .
connective tissue composed of elastic fibers .
the middle layer of an artery or vein .
the innermost layer of a blood vessel which is a lining of endothelial cells facing the lumen [ kardong ]  .
a lymph node that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node located in the sacral region .
a major subdivision of a mature or developing limb ,  including both skeletal elements  ( or the mesenchyme that gives rise to the skeletal elements )  and associated tissues ,  such as muscle ,  connective tissue ,  integument .
an organ that functions as a secretory or excretory organ
in amniote animal embryology ,  the epiblast is a tissue type derived either from the inner cell mass in mammals or the blastodisc in birds and reptiles .
the rapidly proliferating mass of cells at the caudal extremity of the embryo ;  remnant of the primitive node .
one of a series of paired bulges that develop along the lateral walls of the foregut .
a subdivision of the autopod that has as part a series of phalanges together with associated vasculature ,  musculature ,  integument and nerves .
ectodermal placode that develops in the head into a part of the sensory nervous system .
anatomical space which contains portions of one or more body substances and is bounded by the internal surface of one maximally connected anatomical structure .
the cavity that is enclosed by the central nervous system .
ventral subdivision of the pons which consists of the massive pontine pertuberance on pontine ventral surface .
regional part of superior cerebellar peduncle located in the caudal midbrain ,  at the level of the inferior colliculus ,  consisting of a large bundle of fibers crossing the midline .
part of the corticospinal tract located in the spinal cord ,  formed as 75 to 90% of the corticospinal fibers cross to the opposite side of the brainstem in the pyramidal decussation .
part of cerebral hemisphere located on the medial surface ,  forming a ring around the brain stem
the cochlear nuclei consist of:  ( a )  the dorsal cochlear nucleus ,  corresponding to the tuberculum acusticum on the dorso - lateral surface of the inferior peduncle ;  and  ( b )  the ventral or accessory cochlear nucleus ,  placed between the two divisions of the nerve ,  on the ventral aspect of the inferior peduncle .
anatomical divisons of the brain according to one or more criteria ,  e .g .
collection of nerve cells in the medial forebrain lying generally in front of the anterior commissure  ( maryann martone )  .
nuclear complex containing the vestibular nuclei .
nucleus located beneath the floor of the 4th ventricle in the pontine tegmentum ,  containing motor neurons innervating the lateral rectus muscle of the eye  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 533 ) 
the corticospinal fibers that arise from the pyramidal cells within the cerebral cortex layer v of the precentral motor area ,  the premotor area and the postcentral gyrus ,  then descend into and through the medulla to form the lateral corticospinal tract and the anterior corticospinal tract .
nucleus in the midbrain at the level of the inferior colliculus near the midline ,  containing the motor neurons giving rise to the trochlear nerve ,  innervating the contralateral superior oblique extraocular muscle of the eye  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed ,  1981 ,  pg .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a cervical region .
one of two layers of both white and gray matter of the septum pellucidum .
a region of the brain consisting of ventral and rostral subcortical regions of the telencephalon ,  including among others ,  the basal ganglia ,  septal nuclei ,  amygdala ,  ventral pallidum ,  substantia innominata ,  and basal nucleus of meynert .
a regional part of brain that is part of a cerebellar cortex  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the crossing of the two trochlear nerves at their exit through the velum medullare anterius .
parietal lobe of the left hemisphere of the brain
parietal lobe of the right hemisphere of the brain
a limbic lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a limbic lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a temporal lobe that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
a frontal cortex that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the left side of a brain .
a cerebral hemisphere that is in the right side of a brain .
the ganglion of the vestibular nerve .
the group of neuron cell bodies associated with the eighth cranial nerve during embryogenesis ;  splits in later development to form the cochlear and vestibular ganglia
nucleus forming a longitudinal cell column in the medulla ,  close beneath the floor of the 4th ventricle ,  containing motor neurons that innervate the muscles of the tongue  ( brodal ,  neurological anatomy ,  3rd ed . ,  1981 ,  pg 453 ) 
the central sulcus is a fold in the cerebral cortex of brains in vertebrates .
the deep groove which separates the two hemispheres of the vertebrate brain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a trigeminal nuclear complex .
a sensory epithelium that is part of a gustatory system .
a cellular layer of the dentate gyrus enclosed by the granule cell layer .
the granular layer is the innermost layer of the cerebellar cortex .
dorsal portion of the pons ,  containing cranial nervee nuclei ,  ascending and descending tracts and reticular nuclei .
a wall ,  dividing a cavity or structure into smaller ones [ wp ]  .
the thoracic nerves are the spinal nerves emerging from the thoracic vertebrae .
the horseshoe - shaped tract that connects the two olfactory bulbs .
a nerve fiber that is part of a trigeminal nerve .
the major forebrain commissure that connects the two temporal lobes of the cortex .
a thick plate of cells derived from the neural ectoderm in the head region of the embryo that develops into the olfactory region of the nasal cavity .
an epithelial sac of invaginated ectoderm formed from the otic placode that gives rise to the structures of the inner ear [ mp ] 
the part of the brain that is the morphological boundary between the midbrain and hindbrain and that is the location of an organizing center which patterns the midbrain and hindbrain primordia of the neural plate .
a single row of glia at the dorsal midline of the developing neural tube along the entire anterior - posterior axis .
a temporary epithelium that derives from the outer layer of the ectdoerm and is shed once the inner layer differentiates to form a true epidermis .
the portion of neural plate anterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
the portion of neural plate posterior to the mid - hindbrain junction .
unsegmented field of paraxial mesoderm present posterior to the most recently formed somite pair ,  from which somites will form .
in mammals ,  the pronephric duct is the predecessor of the wolffian duct [ wp ]  .
blood islands are structures in the developing embryo which lead to many different parts of the circulatory system .
a horseshoe - shaped thickening of the endoderm at the cranial  ( rostral )  end of the primitive streak formed by the involution of spemann's organizer cells which ,  together with the notochord ,  induces the formation of the neural plate from the overlying ectodermal cells and contributes mesodermal type cells to the surrounding tissue
the intermediate mesoderm is located between the lateral mesoderm and the paraxial mesoderm .
the second pharyngeal arch will form the hyoid apparatus .
lateral neurogenic placodes positioned dorsal of the epibranchial placodes .
the axial mesoderm includes the prechordal mesoderm and the chordamesoderm .
a cranial placode which ,  once specified ,  invaginates to form an otic cup ,  which eventually separates from the surface ectoderm to form the otic vesicle or otocyst ,  a rounded structure without appar -  ent polarity .
a neurogenic placode that arises at the level of the midbrain - hindbrain boundary and develops into a trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that is part of the anterior neural keel and will form the optic vesicle [ zfa ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is comprised of neural and non - neural epithelial layers which will form the retina and retinal pigmented epithelium of the mature eye [ zfa ]  .
a thickened portion of ectoderm which serves as the precursor to the lens .
paired organ that connects the primitive kidney wolffian body  ( or mesonephros )  to the cloaca and serves as the anlage for certain male reproductive organs .
a region of embryonic ectodermal cells that lie directly above the notochord .
the paraxial mesoderm is the mesoderm located bilaterally adjacent to the notochord and neural tube [ go ] 
focal thickenings of the embryonic ectoderm that form immediately dorsal and caudal of the clefts between the pharyngeal arches and that produce the neuroblasts that migrate and condense to form the distal cranial ganglia .
portion of the middle of the three primary germ layers of the embryo that resides on the periphery of the embryo ,  is continuous with the extra - embryonic mesoderm ,  splits into two layers enclosing the intra - embryonic coelom ,  and gives rise to body wall structures [ mp ]  .
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become muscle cells .
trunk portion of the neural crest .
bilateral groups of cells consisting of three rows: one row of endocardial precursors medially and two rows of myocardical precursors laterally .
extension of the dorsal aorta in the tail .
ventral somitic compartment that is a precursor of the axial skeleton [ xao ]  .
the initial thyroid precursor ,  the thyroid primordium ,  starts as a simple midline thickening and develops to form the thyroid diverticulum .
the narrow ,  proximal portion of the optic vesicle which connects the embryonic eye and forebrain
neural crest cells  ( nccs )  originating in the anterior part of the developing embryo and residing between the mid - diencephalon and the forming hindbrain ;  cranial nccs migrate dorsolaterally to form the craniofacial mesenchyme that differentiates into various craniofacial cartilages and bones ,  cranial neurons ,  glia ,  and connective tissues of the face ;  these cells enter the pharyngeal pouches and arches where they give rise to thymic cells ,  bones of the middle ear and jaw  ( mandible )  ,  and the odontoblasts of the tooth primordia ;  like their counterparts in the trunk ,  cranial nccs also contribute to the developing peripheral nervous system ,  along with the pigmented cell  ( i .e .
gonochoristic organism that can produce female gametes .
gonochoristic organism that can produce male gametes .
anatomical structure that overlaps the outer epithelial layer and is adjacent to the space surrounding the organism .
anatomical structure that has as its parts two or more multi - tissue structures of at least two different types and which through specific morphogenetic processes forms a single distinct structural unit demarcated by bona fide boundaries from other distinct anatomical structures of different types .
portion of tissue composed of mesenchymal cells  ( motile cells that develop from epthelia via an epithelial to mesenchymal transition )  and surrounding extracellular material .
meckel's cartilage is the bilaterally paired ,  rod - like ,  cartilaginous ventral component of the lower jar ,  or ventral mandibular arch .
anatomical cluster that forms the floor and sidewalls of the middle part of the cranium .
anatomical cluster that is located in the anterior region of the cranium and provides structural support for the olfactory organ .
subdivision of skeleton that includes all dermal bones in the cranial skeleton [ zfa , modified ]  .
the third branchial arch contributes to the development of the hyoid bone ,  stylopharyngeus muscle ,  inferior parathyroid gland ,  and thymus .
contributes to development of the cartilage of the larynx ,  laryngeal ,  pharyngeal ,  and soft palate muscles ,  superior parathyroid gland ,  and c - cells of the thymus
the 6th pharyngeal arch .contributes to the development of the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles
the vessels formed within the first pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the second pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the third pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the fourth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the vessels formed within the sixth pair of branchial arches in embryogenesis
the outermost extraembryonic membrane
the trachea is the portion of the airway that attaches to the bronchi as it branches  [ go:dph ]  .
upper portion of the skull that excludes the mandible  ( when present in the organism )  .
anatomical structure that is part of the head consisting entirely of cranium and mandible [ wp ]  .
an organ involved in reproduction
a female organ involved in reproduction
a male organ involved in reproduction
any sense organ that functions in  ( some )  detection of chemical stimulus involved in sensory perception of taste  ( go:0050912 )  .
anterior portion of the palate consisting of bone and mucous membranes [ go ]  .
septum that divides the ovary ,  the basal portion of a carpel or group of fused carpels ,  that encloses the ovule ( s )  [ go ]  .
one of the two embryological structures that give rise to the kidney  ( the other is the ureteric bud )  .
endochondral bones that are often elongate and arranged in rows of articulating elements ,  and form the visible part of the digits .
an epithelium that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cochlear duct of membranous labyrinth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the epithelial layer of the luminal surfaces of the mammary gland
an epithelium that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a footplate .
an epithelium that is part of a otic placode  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs in an organism connected to the sternum and the vertebrae .
the neck of the rib is the flattened portion which extends lateralward from the head ;  it is about 2 .5 cm .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from endoderm and lines the yolk sac .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endoderm that is part of a thyroid primordium .
a mesenchyme that is part of a amnion .
a mesenchyme that is part of a chorion .
a calcareous tooth that is part of the upper jaw region .
a calcareous tooth that is part of the lower jaw region .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the upper part of the mouth .
a subdivision of the skeleton that corresponds to the lower part of the mouth .
an endothelium that is part of a trachea .
the portion of the primitive mesentery that encloses the stomach ;  from its dorsal sheet ,  the greater omentum develops ,  and from its ventral sheet ,  the lesser omentum .
a mesentery that surrounds the heart .
a mesentery that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a midgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a foregut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
racemose mucous glands beneath the mucous membrane of the pharynx .
any gland that is part of the diencephalon .
a gland that is part of a integumental system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mesencephalic roof plate ,  including the caudal and rostral part of the midbrain roof
a roof plate that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a metencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a roof plate that is part of a medulla oblongata  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood island that is part of a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing testis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing camera - type eye .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing ovary  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the portion of the yolk sac that is derived from mesoderm and consists of mesenchyme .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a incisor tooth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the carpal skeleton .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pinna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing mammary gland .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a footplate .
a submucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the rectum .
a submucosa that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a spatially aggregated collection of nerve cell bodies in the pns ,  consisting of one or more subpopulations that share cell type ,  chemical phenotype ,  and connections .
a ganglion that is part of a central nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a oral opening  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a layer of epithelial cells on the surface of the mucosa .
an epithelium that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a midgut .
an epithelium that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a incisor tooth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a nasal septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a submandibular gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a parotid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a sublingual gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pelvic appendage bud .
an unilaminar epithelium that surrounds a pectoral appendage bud .
an ectoderm that is part of a footplate .
a extraembryonic structure that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a chorion .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a right ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a left ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the striated muscles that move the eye and include: superior rectus ,  inferior rectus ,  medial rectus ,  lateral rectus ,  superior oblique ,  inferior oblique ,  retractor bulbi
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pericardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a diaphragm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesothelium that is part of a pleural cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a urinary system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a hindgut  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a rectum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a duodenum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mesentery that is part of a jejunum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a nasal septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a digestive tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any of the mucous ,  serous ,  or mixed glands that empty their secretions onto the surface of the tongue .
mesenchyme that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing mandible  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing nasal septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing submandibular gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing parotid gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing sublingual gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gelatinous substance within the umbilical cord ,  largely made up of mucopolysaccharides  ( hyaluronic acid and chondroitin sulfate )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymph node that is located in a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an adipose tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the encapsulated adipose tissue in the abdomen .
the encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the ovaries or testes .
a nerve that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that innervates an eyelid .
any nerve that innervates the iris .
a nerve that is part of the trunk region of the body  ( not to be confused with a nerve trunk )  .
a nerve that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is located in a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an incisor tooth that is part of a upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an incisor tooth that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the region of the forelimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is connected via a shoulder joint  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a facial skeleton  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb region .
a bone that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ureteral branches of renal artery are small branches which supply the ureter .
an artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the superior labial artery  ( superior labial branch of facial artery )  is larger and more tortuous than the inferior labial artery .
the iinferior labial artery  ( inferior labial branch of facial artery )  arises near the angle of the mouth ;  it passes upward and forward beneath the triangularis and ,  penetrating the orbicularis oris ,  runs in a tortuous course along the edge of the lower lip between this muscle and the mucous membrane .
an artery that supplies blood to the cerebellum .
an artery that is part of a thoracic cavity [ cjm ]  .
one of the arteries supplying a meninix [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the upper lip .
the inferior labial vein is the vein receiving blood from the lower lip .
a vein that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of vein that is part of a trabecular bone tissue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of lymphoid tissue that is part of a thymus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a camera - type eye .
a sebaceous gland that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a holocrine gland of the dermis that secretes sebum into hair follicles .
a lactiferous gland that is part of the abdominal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a venule that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arteriole that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a cornea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trachea .
a blood vessel that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of the arterial system .
a blood vessel that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a capillary that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gray matter that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an lymphatic vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve trunk that is part of a vagus nerve .
a bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a right lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a terminal bronchiole that is part of a left lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the regions of the brain that are largely or entirely composed of myelinated nerve cell axons and contain few or no neural cell bodies or dendrites .
a meninx that is part of a brain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a meninx that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous membrane forming the innermost of the three coverings that surrounds the brain within the cranial cavity that is firmly attached to the glial capsule .
a pia mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pia mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a forebrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a spinal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a forebrain .
a dura mater that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a telencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a dura mater that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdomen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trachea .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a elbow  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a wrist  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a knee  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a shoulder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibrous supportive tissue of the mammary gland .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a dermis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thoracic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an ankle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hand  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a tail  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the ring - shaped cartilaginous structures that support the trachea
a skin gland that is part of a camera - type eye  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a long bone that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the dense connective tissue which contains predominantly elastic fibers and is found in the tunica media of the aorta wall .
the type of heart connective tissue found in the endocardial layer that consists mainly of elastic fibers .
an elastic tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a circulatory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
elastic tissue layer that lines a blood vessel layer .
elastic tissue that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an elastic tissue that is part of a trachea  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the middle layer of the aorta wall ,  containing the smooth muscle layer and elastic fibers .
the innermost layer of the aorta ,  containing the endothelium and an inner elastic membrane .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
2nd digit of the manus .
3rd digit of the manus .
4th digit of the manus .
5th digit of the manus .
1st digit of the hind autopod .
2nd digit of the hind autopod .
3rd digit of the hind autopod .
4th digit of the hind autopod .
5th digit of the hind autopod .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an arterial blood vessel that is part of a kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
a metacarpal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 3 [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
a metatarsal bone that distally_connected_to a proximal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
molars are the rearmost and most complicated kind of tooth in most mammals .
a bone that is part of a mesopodial skeleton .
any joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that attaches to an eyelid .
any muscle organ that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that attaches to a tail vertebra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a molar tooth that is part of a upper jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a molar tooth that is part of a lower jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a collection of teeth arranged in some pattern in the mouth or other part of the body .
a tooth that is typically long and pointed and bearing a single cusp .
the portion of the tooth covered by enamel .
the part of a tooth that is implanted in the gum ;  the root is normally located below the neck of the tooth ,  covered by cementum rather than enamel ,  and attached by the periodontal ligament to the alveolar bone
the ventral area of the mouth .
in humans: muscles arising in the zygomatic arch that close the jaw .
the muscles of the palate are the glossopalatine ,  palatoglossus ,  levator palati ( ni )  ,  musculus uvulae ,  palatopharyngeus ,  and tensor palati ( ni )  .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdomen proper  ( excluding the pelvic cavity )  .
fibrous joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages of the skull are connected by sutural ligaments  ( scant amount of collagenous dense connective tissue )  .
in anatomy ,  in the occipital bone ,  the foramen magnum is one of the several oval or circular apertures in the base of the skull ,  through which the medulla oblongata  ( an extension of the spinal cord )  enters and exits the skull vault .
the sella turcica is a saddle - shaped depression in the sphenoid bone at the base of the human skull .
a collection of sacral vertebrae in the sacral region that are fused and part of the bony pelvis .
the outermost part of the spinal canal .
any joint connecting the acromonion of the scapula and clavicle .
anatomical space in the abdominal cavity behind  ( retro )  the peritoneum .
the atlanto - axial joint is of a complicated nature ,  comprising no fewer than four distinct joints .
the metacarpophalangeal joints  ( mcp )  are of the condyloid kind ,  formed by the reception of the rounded heads of the metacarpal bones into shallow cavities on the proximal ends of the first phalanges ,  with the exception of that of the thumb ,  which presents more of the characters of a ginglymoid joint .
the metatarsophalangeal articulations are the joints between the metatarsal bones of the foot and the proximal bones of the toes  .
the tissues that surround the organs that are present within the abdominal cavity .
a joint of the pes that connects the talus and the calcaneus .
the firm fibrocartilaginous joint in the median plane between the two opposing surfaces of the pubic bones ,  which are united by an interpubic disc of fibrocartilage as well as the superior and arcuate pubic ligaments .
a synovial joint of the jaw that connects the mandible to the temporal bone .
the achilles tendon is a tendon of the posterior leg .
the passage in the lower abdominal wall through which the spermatic cord in the male or the round ligament in the female ,  nerves and vessels pass from the pelvic cavity to the scrotum or labia majora ,  respectively
passages external to the liver for the conveyance of bile .
passages within the liver for the conveyance of bile .
either of two pairs of folds of mucous membrane projecting into the larynx .
one of the anatomic dilations of the ascending aorta ,  which occurs just above the aortic valve .
a circle of arteries that supply blood to the brain .
the left and right brachiocephalic veins in the upper chest are formed by the union of each corresponding internal jugular vein and subclavian vein .
a vein arising from the splenic trabecular vein in the hilum of the spleen that drains into the portal vein .
portion of tissue in the nervous system which consists of neurons and glial cells ,  and may also contain parts of the vasculature .
the major nerves supplying sympathetic innervation to the abdomen ,  including the greater ,  lesser ,  and lowest  ( or smallest )  splanchnic nerves that are formed by preganglionic fibers from the spinal cord which pass through the paravertebral ganglia and then to the celiac ganglia and plexuses and the lumbar splanchnic nerves carry fibers which pass through the lumbar paravertebral ganglia to the mesenteric and hypogastric ganglia .
a branch of the vagus nerve that supplies motor function and sensation to the larynx  ( voice box )  .
the lingual nerve is a branch of the mandibular nerve  ( cn v3 )  ,  itself a branch of the trigeminal nerve ,  which supplies sensory innervation to the tongue .
the vestibular nerve is one of the two branches of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( the cochlear nerve being the other )  .
a large branch of the brachial plexus supplying various parts of the upper arm  ( as flexor muscles )  and forearm  ( as the skin )  .
an arrangement of nerve fibers ,  running from the spine that travels to the head and neck where it innervates skin and muscle .
the twelve spinal nerves on each side of the thorax .
the intercostal nerves are the anterior divisions  ( rami anteriores ;  ventral divisions )  of the thoracic spinal nerves from t1 to t11 .
the central part of the thoracic cavity enclosed by the left and right pleurae .
a mucous membrane that lines the mouth .
a region of the fetal urogenital sinus epithelium destined to become the prostate [ go ]  .
a bone of the metapodial skeleton
the part of the forelimb between pectoral region and the elbow ,  corresponding to the humerus .
the middle limb segment of the pelvic free limb ,  between the autopod and stylopod segments .
a nerve that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle tissue that is part of the urethra .
any muscle organ that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a skin of body that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of an abdominal segment of trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a limb joint that is part of an autopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a neural tube .
epithelium that is part of a developing tooth or dental organ .
an epithelium that is part of an upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a thymus ,  forming a supporting framework [ mp , modified ]  .
a artery that supplies a thyroid gland .
in medicine ,  gonadal vein refers to the blood vessel that carrying blood away from the gonad  ( testis ,  ovary )  toward the heart .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a midbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a telencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a diencephalon .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a hindbrain .
a neural crest that has_potential_to_developmentally_contribute_to a spinal cord .
a neural plate that develops_from a future spinal cord .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing gonad  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme enclosed by a dental organ that gives rise to an odontogenic papilla .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
posterior part of a vertebra that consists of a pair of pedicles and a pair of laminae ,  and supports seven processes: four articular processes ,  two transverse processes one spinous process [ wp ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a phalanx that is part of a foot digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a ganglion .
a mesentery that is part of a uterus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical cavity that has the potential to develop into a coelemic cavity lumen .
the part of the coelom in the embryo between the somatopleuric and splanchnopleuric mesoderm ;  the principal body cavities of the trunk  ( thoracic ,  abdominal ,  and pelvic )  arise from this embryonic part of the coelom
initial section of the oviduct through which the ova pass from the ovary to the uterus
paired ducts of the embryo that run down the lateral sides of the urogenital ridge and terminate at the mullerian eminence in the primitive urogenital sinus .
connective ,  non - functional supportive framework of a biological cell ,  tissue ,  or organ .
a cover or envelope partly or wholly surrounding a structure .
a small endodermal thickening in the foregut adjacent to the transverse septum .
portion of myotome that is ventral to the horizontal septum
one of the skeletal muscles of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue in the trunk .
portion of myotome that is dorsal to the horizontal septum
a logitudinal sheet of continuous connective tissue partition developing at the apex of the chevron - shaped myotome and separating dorsal  ( epaxial )  and ventral  ( hypaxial )  body wall muscle masses ;  each is destined to become ,  respectively ,  the epaxial and hyopaxial musculature .
the part of the retina that contains neurons and photoreceptor cells [ go ]  .
an atrioventricular canal that is in the left side of a atrioventricular region .
an atrioventricular canal that is in the right side of a atrioventricular region .
small blood vessel similar to a capillary but with a fenestrated endothelium .
the epithelial component of the choroid plexus .
hard bony ,  calcareous ,  or chitinous organ found in the mouth or pharynx of an animal and used in procuring or masticating food .
epithelial tubes transport gases ,  liquids and cells from one site to another and form the basic structure of many organs and tissues ,  with tube shape and organization varying from the single - celled excretory organ in caenorhabditis elegans to the branching trees of the mammalian kidney and insect tracheal system .
any endothelium that has the quality of being cylindrical  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mass of closely packed fat cells  ( adipose tissue )  surrounded by fibrous tissue septa [ tmd ]  .
kidney mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the kidney [ go ]  .
a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart
embryonic structure that develops into pancreatic bud .
the embryonic pancreas develops from two separate anlagen in the foregut epithelium ,  one dorsal and two ventral pancreatic buds [ pmid ]  .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the accessory pancreatic duct .
pancreatic bud that gives rise to the major pancreatic duct .
a duct that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that lines the lumen of the digestive tract .
endocardium that is part of the atrioventricular canal [ zfa , vetted ]  .
white matter that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cartilage element of chondrocranium .
a cartilage element that is part of the cranial skeleton .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and are associated with reproduction .
the sensory system for the sense of touch and pain .
the brain ventricles or their associated choroid plexuses
the posterior concave interior of the eye ,  consisting of the retina ,  the choroid ,  the posterior segment of the sclera ,  the optic disk ,  and blood vessels ,  visible by an ophthalmoscope
the anterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the posterior segment of the lamellated connective tissue layer of the cornea
the articulation of the squamous portion of the temporal bones with the parietal bones [ mp ]  .
the part of a molar that is covered by enamel
the structures associated with drainage of the aqueous humor from the eye ,  that include the trabecular meshwork ,  schlemm's canal ,  the uveoscleral network ,  and the aqueous veins
an anastomosing network of delicate tubules located in the hilum of the testicle  ( mediastinum testis )  that carries sperm from the seminiferous tubules to the vasa efferentia [ wp ]  .
slender needle - like pointed projection that runs downward and slightly forward from the base of the inferior surface of the petrous portion of the temporal bone where it joins the tympanic portion ;  it gives attachment to the styloglossus ,  stylohyoid ,  and stylopharyngeus muscles and the stylohyoid and stylomandibular ligaments
the ganglion that supplies nerve fibers to the parotid gland
the slender connective tissue fiber in the extracellular matrix of skin tissue that is composed of microfibrils and amorphous elastin and is characterized by great elasticity
the lymph nodes located outside the thoracic and abdominal cavities ,  such as the submandibular ,  prescapular ,  axillary ,  inguinal and popliteal lymph nodes
the internal feminine genital organs ,  including the ovaries ,  uterine tubes ,  uterus ,  uterine cervix ,  and vagina .
one of a set of deep furrows which divide the lobules of the cerebellum .
a conical pouch formed from the upper and left angle of the right ventricle in the chordate heart ,  from which the pulmonary artery arises [ wp ]  .
the funnel - like expansion of the abdominal extremity of the uterine tube [ mp ] 
the dense region demarcating the thymus medulla from the surrounding cortex that is characterized by numerous blood vessels  ( predominantly arterioles )  with some perivascular connective tissue ,  mature and immature t lymphocytes ,  dendritic cells ,  variable numbers of perivascular b - lymphocytes and plasma cells ;  site of entry of bone marrow stem cells and exit of mature ,  functional t cells
the main curve of the hyoid bone ,  from which the horns extend
a sac - like structure comprising a sebaceous gland .
the embryonic pseudostratified epithelium of the fourth cerebellar ventricle that eventually forms the vermis and ventral neuroepithelium
one of the folds of skin which form the inner lips on both sides of the vaginal opening
the connection between the embryo proper and extraembryonic tissues
a transitional population of migrating mesenchymal cells that derive from somites and that will become dermal cells .
the single layer of epithelial cells that lines the early neural tube and develops into the nervous system and into the neural crest cells
the transient outer neural tube region that contains the first generated post - mitotic neurons that receive synaptic input from thalamic axons and in turn project axons to the developing cortical plate
the region of the developing mammalian cortex that extends between the ventricular zone and the cortical plate  ( cp )  ;  normally ,  the iz is a region of tangential migration of cells ,  and at midgestation ,  the lower part of the iz develops into the subventricular zone
the nodules of small undifferentiated b lymphocytes and follicular dendritic cells located in the spleen white pulp
the nodules of antigen - activated ,  differentiating b cells ,  follicular dendritic cells ,  antigen - presenting t cells and macrophages in the spleen white pulp
the external masculine genital organs ,  including the penis and scrotum
the internal masculine genital organs ,  including the testes ,  epididymides ,  deferent ducts ,  seminal vesicles ,  prostate ,  ejaculatory ducts ,  and bulbourethral glands
one of the fine terminal elements of the bile duct system ,  leaving the portal canal ,  and pursuing a course at the periphery of a lobule of the liver [ bto ]  .
the layer of undifferentiated ,  proliferating cells that line the neural tube lumen that is the immediate transformation of the germinal neuroepithelium
the layer of glia and differentiating neurons that forms as a second layer around the germinal neuroepithium ;  as this develops it comes to lie between the ventricular and marginal layers and includes the basal and alar plates .
the outermost layer of the neural tube that consists of axons from the developing mantle layer and will form the white matter
the region of the mantle layer of the neural tube that lies ventral to the sulcus limitans and contains primarily motor neurons and interneurons .
the unpaired embryonic prominence that is formed by the tissues surrounding the forebrain vesicle and develops into the forehead and bridge of the nose / snout .
the lateral area of the two branches of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it separates the olfactory pit from the developing eye and the ala of the nose / snout develops from it
the central area of the two limbs of a horseshoe - shaped mesenchymal swelling that lie medial to the olfactory placode or pit in the future nasal region of the embryo ;  it joins with the ipsilateral maxillary prominence in the formation of half of the upper jaw ,  and the nasal tip and philtrum of the upper lip develop from it
one of the folds of skin which form the inner lips  ( labia minora )  and outer lips  ( labia majora )  on both sides of the vaginal opening .
one of the folds of skin which form the outer lips on both sides of the vaginal opening
one of the system of communicating cavities in the brain that are continuous with the central canal of the spinal cord ,  that like it are derived from the medullary canal of the embryo ,  that are lined with an epithelial ependyma ,  and that contain a serous fluid
any of the veins that carries deoxygenated blood from a part of the body into the right atrium of the heart .
the subdivision of the face that includes the eye  ( eyeball plus adnexa such as eyelids )  and the orbit of the skull and associated parts of the face such as the eyebrows ,  if present
the middle of the face including the nose and its associated bony structures [ mw ]  .
the toothlike process on the upper surface of the axis ,  which articulates with the atlas above [ gaid ]  .
joint cavity shared by all the joints of the elbow .
the collecting duct system of the kidney consists of a series of tubules and ducts that connect the nephrons to the ureter .
one of the two jaw ridges either on the roof of the mouth between the upper teeth and the hard palate or on the bottom of the mouth behind the lower teeth [ wp ]  .
anatomical line demarcating the boundary between forehead and scalp .
region beneath a nail or claw .
horizontal piece of cartilage located outside the ear canal that divides the upper and lower parts of the ear .
part of the cranium ,  the clivus is a shallow depression behind the dorsum sellc& that slopes obliquely backward .
the outer or sperficial part of the humerus .
an anatomical cavity that is the combination of the cavity between the nares and the choanae [ hp , modified ]  .
any tube ,  opening or passage that connects two distinct anatomical spaces .
a muscle of the tympanic cavity that attaches to an auditory ossicle .
small cavity surrounding the bones of the middle ear .
a blood vessel that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a tympanic cavity  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an internal pocketing of pharyngeal endoderm that contacts a region of ectoderm  ( a pharyngeal cleft )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions with the pharyngeal arches .
a vasculature that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the endoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the mesoderm .
an anatomical structure that develops  ( entirely or partially )  from the ectoderm .
anatomical system that has as its parts the organs concerned with the production and excretion of urine and those concerned with reproduction .
any of the layers of the myocardium .
the layer of the myocardium composed of projections of contractile myocytes .
a myocardium trabecular layer that is part of a cardiac ventricle .
the optic vesicle is the evagination of neurectoderm that precedes formation of the optic cup [ go ]  .
a cortical cell layer of the cerebellum .
the first recognizable structure derived from the heart field
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the primary beating heart tube .
an epithelial tube that will give rise to the mature heart .
the outflow tract septum is a partition in the outflow tract
the outflow tract is the portion of the heart through which blood flows into the arteries
vein of heart that drains the myocardium
a cardiac chamber surrounds an enclosed cavity within the heart
an embryonic group of progenitor cells that forms from an outpouching of the septum transversum near the venous pole of the heart and gives rise to the epicardium
a thick plate of mesodermal tissue that occupies the space between the thoracic cavity and yolk stalk in the early embryo ,  forming a transverse partition partially separating the coelomic cavity into thoracic and abdominal portions .
the internal genitalia are the internal sex organs such as the uterine tube ,  the uterus and the vagina in female mammals ,  and the testis ,  seminal vesicle ,  ejaculatory duct and prostate in male mammals
the external genitalia are the outer sex organs ,  such as the penis or vulva in mammals
organ that is part of the hematopoietic system .
the nonstriated ,  involuntary muscle tissue located in the wall of the aorta
the mammary fat is an adipose structure in the gland that is invaded by the mammary ducts
the solid cord of epithelial cells that emerges from the mammary bud and grows down from the primary mammary mesenchyme and into a second stromal compartment ,  the fat pad precursor ,  beneath the dermis .
the prostate gland stroma is made up of the mesenchymal or fibroblast cells of the prostate gland
a portions of the gut that is derived from endoderm .
the glomerular epithelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the outer surfaces of the glomerulus .
the glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus
the glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the glomerulus
the comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of the nephron
the s - shaped body is the successor of the comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of the nephron
kidney pyramids are the conical arrangements of tubules that constitute the renal medulla in a multi - lobed mammalian kidney ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts .
the cortical collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex
the inner medullary collecting duct is the portion of the collecting duct that lies in the renal inner medulla
nephrogenic mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the nephron
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells .
the nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron
the small branching blood vessels in the kidney glomerulus that receives blood from the kidney afferent arterioles ;  these capillaries are under high pressure for filtering within the glomerulus
a nerve that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a nerve that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a large intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the urothelium of the kidney pelvis
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lymphatic vessel  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a iris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a mammary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arteriole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle found within ,  and composing the majority of the wall of blood vessels .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a spleen  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a small intestine  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of the dorsal region of an animal .
a bone that is part of a hindlimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb digit .
a bone that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bone that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a skin of body  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb zeugopod  ( lower arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a forelimb stylopod  ( upper arm )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod  ( lower leg )   [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pericardium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a cranial suture that is part of a cartilaginous joint  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a lateral ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a third ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a choroid plexus epithelium that is part of a fourth ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is part of the eye region .
anatomical cluster that consists of all the skeletal elements  ( eg . ,  bone ,  cartilage ,  and teeth )  of the body .
the bilaminar epithelium formed from the myotome and dermatome .
a cone - like structure that is formed when myocardial progenitor cells of the heart field fuse at the midline .
dense connective tissue that separates the atria from the ventricles and provides physical support for the heart .
a nerve that is part of a parasympathetic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a glomerular capillary .
a nerve trunk that is part of a sympathetic nervous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lymphatic vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel smooth muscle that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
distal - most phalanx within a digit .
a phalanx located between proximal and distal phalanges .
proximal - most phalanx within a digit .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a foot digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a foot digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a foot digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a pedal digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a hand digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
upper part of skull ,  consisting of parietals ,  frontals ,  post - parietals ,  and in some species the squamosal and a portion of the alisphenoid
a membranous sac that develops from the posterior part of the alimentary canal in the embryos of mammals ,  birds ,  and reptiles ,  and it is important in the formation of the umbilical cord and placenta in mammals [ vhog ]  .
the primitive streak is a structure that forms during the early stages of avian ,  reptilian and mammalian embryonic development [ wp ]  .
any of the four veins in the developing vertebrate embryo which run along each side of the vertebral column
outermost layer of cells in the blastodermic vesicle ,  which will develop into the trophoblast layer and then contact the endometrium and take part in establishing the embryo's means of nutrition
embryonic structures which begin as undifferentiated mesenchyme attaching to the caudal end of the gonads .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb .
the embryonic structure that gives rise to the corneal ectoderm
an inguinal canal that is part of a female organism .
an inguinal canal that is part of a male organism .
multilayered ectodermal region at the distal tip of a limb or fin bud necessary for the proper development of the underlying mesenchyme [ mp , modified ]  .
an outgrowth on the lateral trunk of the embryo that develops into a limb or paired fin .
the first of the series of pharyngeal arches that develop into jaw bones or their homologs ,  and their associated nerves and arteries
one of a series of paired embryological vascular structures formed within a pharyngeal arch ;  in the adult ,  some of these vessels give rise to the great vessels [ mp ] 
blood vessel that is connected to the yolk sac .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer found between the substantia propria and the endothelial layer of the cornea [ mp ]  .
a continuous cartilaginous formation in mesenchyme of the second pharyngeal arch in the embryo .
a transparent homogeneous acellular layer ,  6 to 9 um thick ,  lying between the basal lamina of the outer layer of stratified epithelium and the substantia propria of the cornea ;  it is considered to be a basement membrane .
vascular network that is connected to the yolk sac .
a bone that is part of an appendage  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metaphysis that is in the distal side of a diaphysis .
a metaphysis that is in the proximal side of a diaphysis .
an epiphysis that is on the distal side of the bone .
an epiphysis that is on the proximal side of the bone .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb .
an epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a tibia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of an ulna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a fibula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a distal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of bone tissue that is part of a proximal epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a periosteum that is part of a epiphysis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a humerus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a tibia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a ulna  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a fibula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper extremity of the humerus  ( proximal humerus )  consists of a large rounded head joined to the body by a constricted portion called the neck ,  and two eminences ,  the greater and lesser tubercles .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a femur  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a radius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 1 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 2 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 3 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 4 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a manual digit 5 phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone of digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a phalanx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
one of three main pairs of arteries and their branches ,  which irrigate the cerebrum of the brain .
a vertebra in the trunk or cervical region .
a mesopodium that is part of a manus .
a metapodium region that is part of a manus .
mesopodial segment of the pes ,  including the tarsal skeleton and associated tissues .
an embryo at the neurula stage .
sum of all sensory systems in an organism .
any collection of skeletal muscles that is part of a head  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a body wall  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  ( upper leg  /  thigh )  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a neck  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower leg or upper leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that acts on the pharynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a back  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic girdle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subdivision of the musculature of the body in the pectoral girdle region .
any collection of muscles that is part of a face .
any collection of muscles that is part of an arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the hip skeleton .
the collection of muscles that form attachments to the shoulder skeleton .
the collection of muscles that are part of the larynx .
any collection of muscles that is part of a trunk  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a limb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a perineum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a lower arm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a foot  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a manus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of an atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a interatrial septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a cardiac septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of a myocardium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a diaphragm  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a quadriceps femoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a tibialis anterior  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a deltoid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a biceps brachii  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a digastric  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a mylohyoid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a orbicularis oculi  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a masseter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a temporalis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a levator palpebrae superioris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a trapezius  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a pectoralis major  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a rectus abdominis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle that is attached to a vertebra of the vertebral column .
any muscle organ that is part of a anal part of perineum .
a portion of striated muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a muscle organ  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a musculoskeletal system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the maxilla .
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the mandible .
a projection or outgrowth of tissue from a larger body or organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone tissue .
a testis that is in the left side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a testis that is in the right side of the genitalia  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical system that has as its parts the heart and blood vessels .
a network of blunt ended vessels lacking direct connection to the blood vascular system .
a vascular network consisting of blood vessels .
a kidney that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a kidney that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the layer of secretory cells which lines the epididymis
an eye that is part of a left side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eye that is part of a right side of organism  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a forelimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a digital artery that is part of a hindlimb  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the part of the arterial system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all arteries .
an artery of the systemic circulation ,  which is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart ,  to the body ,  and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart .
the part of the venous system that drains the general body tissues [ kardong ] 
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all venous vessels .
a structure ,  usually a circular muscle ,  that normally maintains constriction of a natural body passage or orifice and which relaxes as required by normal physiological functioning .
the first rib of the rib cage
in humans: the twelfth rib has a single articular facet on the head ,  which is of rather large size .
the third of the seven cervical vertebrae [ ncit , modified ]  .
the fourth of the seven cervical vertebrae [ ncit , modified ]  .
the fifth of the seven cervical vertebrae [ ncit , modified ]  .
the sixth of the seven cervical vertebrae [ ncit , modified ]  .
the first lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the second lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the third lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the fourth lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the fifth lumbar vertebra counting from the top down .
the capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism .
an endothelium that lines the blood vasculature .
the connective tissue that surrounds the spleen
the infraorbital artery is an artery in the head that runs in the maxilla ,  emerging through the infraorbital foramen ,  just under the orbit of the eye .
the polygonal structure of the liver that consists of hepatocytes radiating outward from a hepatic vein
the process projecting downward from either side of the sphenoid bone ,  in vertebrates divided into two plates ,  an inner and an outer  ( sometimes called the lateral and medial )  ;  the posterior nares pass through the space ,  called the pterygoid fossa ,  between the processes
a keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
the body or shaft of the humerus is almost cylindrical in the upper half of its extent ,  prismatic and flattened below ,  and has three borders and three surfaces .
articular part of the mandible bone
a dorsal process on the lower jaw associated with muscle attachment .
an anatomical wall that is part of an aorta ,  enclosing the luminal space .
the outermost layer of the aorta wall ,  containing connective tissue and collagen and elastic fibers
a muscular coat that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the membranous portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
the muscular portion of the wall between the two lower chambers of the heart
one of: the 4th ventricle median or lateral apertures .
the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus that is bounded by the pial surface superficially and the dentate gyrus granule cell layer deep .
the sensory system for the sense of balance .
the raphe nuclei are thin plates of cells in and immediately adjacent to the sagittal plane .
the costocervical trunk arises from the upper and back part of the subclavian artery ,  behind the scalenus anterior on the right side ,  and medial to that muscle on the left side .
an epithelium that is part of an external naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a vena cava  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a outflow tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of an arterial system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a venous system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a depression or hollow in a bone [ wp ]  .
a transient fetal dilation of the distal  ( or cranial )  heart tube located where the arterial trunk joins the ventral roots of the aortic arches
a stage that follows the blastula ,  gastrula and neurula stages .
an appendage that is part of an appendage girdle complex .
paired appendage that consists of the posterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pelvic girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
paired appendage that consists of the anterior appendicular skeleton and associated soft and hard tissues ,  but excludes the pectoral girdle and its associated soft and hard tissues .
the jugular veins are veins that bring deoxygenated blood from the head back to the heart via the superior vena cava .
one of the columns of erectile tissue forming the dorsum and sides of the penis .
a triangular double membrane ,  consisting of glial cells and fibers  ( heimer ,  1996 )  separating the anterior horns of the lateral ventricles of the brain .
the ring of fibrocartilage and fibrous tissue forming the circumference of the intervertebral disc ;  surrounds the nucleus pulposus ,  which is prone to herniation when the annulus fibrosus is compromised .
the embryo and its adnexa  ( appendages or adjunct parts )  or associated membranes  ( i .e .
a subregion of the cerebellar cortex ,  consisting of the most medial zone of the cerebellar cortex ,  stradding the midline .
the medial palpebral ligament  ( tendo oculi )  ,  about 4 mm .
a nerve in the head that carries signals from the cochlea of the inner ear to the brain .
a transverse unitary subdivision of the neural tube that shares a common dorsoventral structure  ( floor ,  basal ,  alar ,  and roof plates )  ,  but each having differential molecular identities and fates ;  they comprise the secondary prosencephalon ,  diencephalon  ( prosomeres )  ,  the midbrain  ( mesomeres )  ,  and the hindbrain  ( rhombomeres )  .
any segmental subdivision of a nervous system .
an organ subunit that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
organism at the gastrula stage .
glomerulus of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or metanephros .
a collecting duct of renal tubule that is part of a metanephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the glomus forms from the splanchnic intermediate mesoderm and is the vascularized filtration unit ,  filtering the blood before it enters the tubules .
the dentary is a dermal bone that forms the antero - lateral part of the lower jaw in fishes and amphibians ,  extending to the whole lower jaw in mammals [ vhog , modified ]  .
skeletal element that consists of the scapula and the coracoid [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
a specialized form of connective tissue in which the extracellular matrix is firm ,  providing the tissue with resilience ,  and / or mineralized and that functions in mechanical and structural support .
dermis - derived entity that is made of skeletal tissue .
a gland that is part of an anal canal  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the primitive cartilagionous skeletal structure of the fetal skull that grows to envelop the rapidly growing embyonic brain .
organ consisting of skeletal tissue .
a bone that is part of a cranium .
a tooth that is on the vomer .
any bone that is part of the lower jaw skeleton .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between the two epiphyses ,  excluding the metaphyses [ fma , modified ]  .
anatomical system that consists of all the joints of the body .
opening / conduit between the nasal cavity and the nasopharynx [ aao ]  the choanae are separated by the vomer [ wp ]  .
the tarsi  ( tarsal plates )  are two comparatively thick ,  elongated plates of dense connective tissue ,  about 2 .5 cm .
an eyelid tarsus that is part of a upper eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an eyelid tarsus that is part of a lower eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a lamina propria that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a lamina propria that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an anatomical wall that is part of a cardiac ventricle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mucous membrane lining the respiratory tract
a mucosa that is part of a gastrointestinal system .
a mucous gland that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucous gland that is part of the skin .
the thymic connective tissue which extends into the parenchyma
a secretion that is part of a endocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a exocrine pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a secretion that is part of a pancreas  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a bodily secretion that is produced by the prostate gland .
any of the tissue layers that comprise a blood vessel .
an epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the pseudostratified ciliated epithelium that lines much of the conducting portion of the airway ,  including part of the nasal cavity and larynx ,  the trachea ,  and bronchi
an epithelium that is part of a penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a oviduct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a salivary gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the renal tubule luminar surfaces
an epithelium that is part of an endometrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a prepuce of penis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the stratified epithelial lining of the seminiferous tubules ,  consisting of the developing spermatozoa and the supporting sertoli cells ,  which are tall ,  columnar type cells that line the tubule
an epithelium that is part of a upper respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower respiratory tract  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a larynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lacrimal gland  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the cellular avascular layer of the kidney luminar surfaces
any epithelium that lines one of the bile ducts .
an epithelium that is part of a extrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a intrahepatic bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a medulla that is part of a thyroid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a esophagus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of an anal region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of skeletal muscle tissue that is part of a lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
smooth muscle tissue in all or part of a hepatic duct .
a portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of a epididymis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of artery that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium of vein that is part of a respiratory system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an endothelium that is part of a lymph node  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the thin layer of flat cells that line the aorta and form a barrier between circulating blood in the lumen and the rest of the vessel wall
an endothelium that is part of the cardiovascular system .
a mesentery that is part of a digestive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a connective tissue that surrounds a skeletal muscle tissue .
a gland that is part of a eye .
a sympathetic nerve trunk that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vasculature that is part of a retina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
anatomical cavity bounded by the orbital region of the cranium and forming the location of some or all of the eye .
a part of the epithalamus present in some animal species .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the future body wall  -  underlies the ectoderm [ wp ]  .
layer of lateral plate mesoderm that forms the circulatory system and future gut wall  -  overlies endoderm [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the inner  ( or splanchnic )  layer adheres to the endoderm ,  and with it forms the splanchnopleure [ wp ]  .
a structure created during embryogenesis when the lateral mesoderm splits into two layers  -  the outer  ( or somatic )  layer becomes applied to the inner surface of the ectoderm ,  and with it forms the somatopleure .
a portion of the urogenital ridge which is the source of much of the urinary system [ wp ]  .
one of of the pair of folds derived from the cloacal folds which give rise to a portion of the external genitalia ;  in male embryos they close over the urethral plate and fuse to form the spongy  ( penile )  urethra and ventral aspect of the penis ,  not including the glans ;  failure of fusion of the urethral folds leads to hypospadias ;  in female embryos they fuse only anterior to the anus and form the labia minora [ mp ]  .
the central region of trunk mesoderm .
the mass of tissue made up of mesenchymal cells in the lung .
the fetal urogenital sinus  ( from which the prostate derives )  is a simple cylinder of stratified basal epithelium ,  surrounded by mesenchyme and positioned between the embryonic bladder and pelvic urethra
a neuron projection bundle that connects the retina or its analog in the eye with the brain .
anatomical cluster that connects two or more adjacent skeletal elements or hardened body parts .
a portion of the gut that is derived from ectoderm .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the beginning of the intestines to the anus [ go  -  gut definition ]  .
the region of the digestive tract extending from the mouth cavity through pharynx esophagus stomach and duodenum .
an epithelium surrounding a gonad .
an epithelium surrounding a testis .
an epithelium surrounding an ovary .
a dilation of the duodenal papilla that is the opening of the juncture of the common bile duct and the main pancreatic duct .
one of the two small elevations on the mucosa of the duodenum ,  the major at the entrance of the conjoined pancreatic and common bile ducts and the minor at the entrance of the accessory pancreatic duct .
muscular valve that controls the flow of digestive juices  ( bile and pancreatic juice )  through the ampulla of vater into the second part of the duodenum .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a anal region .
a sphincter muscle surrounding the urethra .
a proximal - distal subdivision of the digestive tract .
a part of a wall of an organ that forms a layer .
the tissue underlying the tunica mucosa of the pharynx .
a submucosa that is part of a hypopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the submucous layer of the wall of the urinary bladder .
a submucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a ileum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a submucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a epiglottis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vagina  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a seminal vesicle  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ejaculatory duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a hypopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a cystic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a descending colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sigmoid colon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a body of stomach  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pyloric antrum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pylorus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a biliary tree  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common bile duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a common hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left hepatic duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left ureter  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a renal pelvis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a neck of urinary bladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a right uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a left uterine tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a male urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a female urethra  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lacrimal sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a nasal septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a tongue  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a sphenoidal sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a nasopharynx  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a soft palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uvula  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a middle ear  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a frontal sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a maxillary sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that adjacent_to a paranasal sinus .
a mucosa that is part of a upper lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a lower lip  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a gallbladder  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a terminal bronchiole  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a portion of the tympanic cavity epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
a mucosa that is part of a nasolacrimal duct  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a pharyngotympanic tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a ethmoid sinus  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a hard palate  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a vocal cord  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a fallopian tube  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a mucosa that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the mediastinum testis is a network of fibrous connective tissue that extends from the upper to near the lower extremity of the testis ,  and is wider above than below .
an organ part that is part of a long bone  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an external genitalia that is part of a female reproductive system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an organ that is part of a immune system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a hemolymphoid system  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the median dorsal longitudinal groove formed in the embryo by the neural plate after the appearance of the neural folds .
one of the two elevated edges of the neural groove [ go , mp ]  .
a solid rod of neurectoderm derived from the neural keel .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a forebrain and adjacent_to a midbrain .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a hindbrain and adjacent_to a spinal cord .
the portion of the ureteric bud tube that contributes to the morphogenesis of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the portion of the ureteric bud that contributes to the morphogenesis of the ureter .
a hole in a tube [ go ]  .
an ectodermal placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that is the primordium of many structures derived from the ectoderm [ go ] 
a bud - like thickening in the epidermis consisting of elongated keratinocytes ,  which at the distal end are in touch with numerous aggregated specialized dermal fibroblasts ,  the dermal condensate .
an tooth placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the tooth bud [ go ]  .
a sebaceous gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sebaceous gland bud [ go ]  .
an sweat gland placode is a thickening of the ectoderm that will give rise to the sweat gland bud [ go ]  .
muscle structures are contractile cells ,  tissues or organs that are found in multicellular organisms [ go ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a mesonephros  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a metanephric tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
an epithelium is a tissue that covers the internal or external surfaces of an anatomical structure [ go ]  .
any smooth muscle tissue that is part of a metanephros .
a metanephric nephron is the functional unit of the metanephros [ go ]  .
metanephric pyramids are the conical masses that constitute the renal medulla in a metanephros ;  they contain the loops of henle and the medullary collecting ducts [ go ]  .
the metanephric cortical collecting duct is the portion of the metanephric collecting duct that resides in the renal cortex [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the metanephric glomerulus [ go ]  .
the metanephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a metanephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains 'feet' that interdigitate with the 'feet' of other glomerular epithelial cells in the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric glomerular endothelium is an epithelial tissue that covers the internal surfaces of the glomerulus of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the metanephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the metanephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
this process pertains to the initial formation of a structure from unspecified parts [ go ]  .
the metanephric comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the metanephric s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a metanephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the metanephric nephron ,  the functional part of the metanephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the metanephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
the metanephric s - shaped body is the successor of the metanephric comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the metanephros [ go ]  .
a bud is a protrusion that forms from an epithelial sheet by localized folding .
a cord of epithelial cells without a lumen and usually several cells thick .
any anatomical structure that is part of the reproductive system .
an epithelial sheet bent on a linear axis .
the functional tissue of the central nervous system consisting of neurons and glial cells .
a structure consisting of multiple cell components but which is not itself a cell and does not have  ( complete )  cells as a part .
connective tissue between the cellular elements of a structure .
any portion of the ducts that carry bile from the liver to the common bile duct .
an organ or element that is in the abdomen .
an organ or element that is part of the adbominal segment of the organism .
an organ or element that part of the dorsum of the organism .
an organ that is part of a chest  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a circumscribed mass of ectodermal cells which bud off from the dental lamina ;  it becomes cup - shaped and develops on its internal face the ameloblast layer of cells that produces the enamel cap of a developing tooth .
an organ or element that part of the trunk region .
an organ or element that is in the thoracic cavity .
an organ or element that is part of the pelvic region .
an organ that part of the thoracic segment region .
innermost layer of the hair shaft .
the portion of the collecting duct that resides in the renal medulla
an artery in males that provides blood to the vas deferens .
one of: anterior or posterior ethmoidal arteries .
a vein that is part of a thorax  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a vein that is part of a vas deferens  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a germinal center that is part of the spleen .
a mammary gland that is part of a cervical region .
a lactiferous gland that is located in the thoracic region / breast .
a gland that is part of a larynx submucosa  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
stromal matrix surrounding blood vessels within the choroid plexus .
a capsule that is part of a tonsil  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a valve that is part of a right atrium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
tissue surrounding the loop of henle in the renal medulla .
a portion of interstitial tissue that is part of a inner medulla of kidney  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the interstitial compartment of the kidney ,  comprising the extravascular intertubular spaces of the renal parenchyma ,  with their attendant cellular elements and extracellular substances ,  bounded on all sides by epithelial and vascular basement membranes .
an external ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a midbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a diencephalon  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a subarachnoid space that is part of a hindbrain  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a right lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a parenchyma that is part of a left lobe of liver  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a medial nasal prominence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an ectoderm that is part of a optic eminence  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a small ,  oval ,  bony chamber of the labyrinth .
an endocardium that is part of a interventricular septum  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a bulbus cordis  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a renal pelvis that is part of a metanephros .
a gland that is part of a stomodeum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a yolk sac  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
portion of primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing head ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to head connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with cranial neural crest cells .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindlimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing toe  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trunk .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing finger  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing forelimb stylopod  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing lower leg  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an artery that supplies the renal cortex .
artery that receives blood from the renal cortex [ mp ,  modified ] 
a compartment of the renal cortex situated between basement membranes of epithelia and vessels that contains two contiguous cellular networks in mutual contact ,  one formed by interstitial fibroblasts ,  the other by dendritic cells .
region of skin beneath the nail plate [ wp ]  .
a dorsal skin of digit that is part of a manual digit .
a dorsal skin of digit that is part of a pedal digit .
a nail bed that is part of a manual digit .
a nail bed that is part of a pedal digit .
a set of structures containing cerebrospinal fluid in the brain .
a structure found in the walls of the ventricles of the brain ,  consisting of part of the meninges  ( pia mater in mammals )  plus ependyma [ cjm ]  .
tela choroidea that lines the tectal ventricle .
tela chorioidea that lines the fourth ventricle [ zfa ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the third ventricle [ zfa ]  .
tela chorioidea that lines the telencephalic ventricle .
the posterior part of the developing vertebrate hindbrain or the corresponding part of the adult brain composed of the medulla oblongata and a portion of the fourth ventricle ;  as well as the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cn ix )  ,  vagus nerve  ( cn x )  ,  accessory nerve  ( cn xi )  ,  hypoglossal nerve  ( cn xii )  ,  and a portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve  ( cn viii )  .
a portion of tissue that is part of an embryo .
portion of tissue that is contiguous with the embryo and is comprised of portions of tissue or cells that will not contribute to the embryo .
the elevation of thickened mesothelium and underlying mesenchyme found on the ventromedial border of the embryonic mesonephros in which the primordial germ cells become embedded ,  establishing it as the primordium of the testis or ovary
cordlike masses of epithelial tissue that invaginate from germinal epithelium of the gonad and give rise to seminiferous tubules and rete testes in the male ,  and primary ovarian follicles and rete ovarii in the female .
structures that develop from sex cords in the female .
the testis cords are precursors to the rete testis .
a zone of skin that is part of a clitoris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the clitoral glans .
a pronephric nephron is the functional unit of the pronephros [ go ]  .
the pronephric nephron tubule is an epithelial tube that is part of the pronephric nephron and connects the filtration unit  ( glomerulus or glomus )  of the pronephros to the pronephric duct [ go ]  .
the mammary placode is a transient lens shaped structure that will give rise to the mammary bud proper [ go ]  .
the endothelial lining of the endocardium .
an pulmonary artery endothelium is an epithelium that lines the pulmonary artery [ go ]  .
the collecting duct is the final common path through which urine flows before entering the ureter and then emptying into the bladder [ go ]  .
a nephron that is part of a mesonephros .
mesonephric mesenchyme is the tissue made up of loosely connected mesenchymal cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric glomerulus is a capillary tuft which forms a close network with the visceral epithelium  ( podocytes )  and the mesangium to form the filtration barrier and is surrounded by bowman's capsule in nephrons of the mature vertebrate kidney ,  or mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric glomerulus vasculature is composed of the tubule structures that carry blood or lymph in the mesonephric glomerulus [ go ]  .
a mesonephric glomerular visceral epithelial cell is a specialized epithelial cell that contains 'feet' that interdigitate with the 'feet' of other glomerular epithelial cells in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric comma - shaped body is the precursor structure to the mesonephric s - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the mesonephric nephron epithelium is a tissue that covers the surface of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
the renal vesicle is the primordial structure of the mesonephric nephron epithelium ,  and is formed by the condensation of mesenchymal cells [ go ]  .
the mesonephric s - shaped body is the successor of the mesonephric comma - shaped body that contributes to the morphogenesis of a nephron in the mesonephros [ go ]  .
a bulb of epithelial cells that forms from the mammary placode that develops into the mammary gland .
a lamina propria that is part of a mucosa of oral region .
a ventricular outflow tract is a portion of either the left ventricle or right ventricle of the heart through which blood passes in order to enter the great arteries .
an outflow tract that is part of a aorta .
a fiber tracts that connect the dorsal region of the two cerebral hemispheres and span the longitudinal fissure ,  including the corpus callosum and hippocampal commissure [ mp ]  .
the fiber tracts that connect the ventral region of the two cerebral hemispheres and span the longitudinal fissure ,  including the anterior and the habenular commissures [ mp ]  .
the outer neural tube region in which post - mitotic neuroblasts migrate along radial glia to form the adult cortical layers [ mp ]  .
the cord - like structure in males comprising the vas deferens and associated tissue that runs from the abdomen down to each testis [ mp ]  .
a layer in the central nervous system that lines system of communicating cavities in the brain and spinal cord .
the group of sensory neuron cell bodies associated with the vagus nerve
the large group of sensory neuron cell bodies ,  anterior to the jugular vein ,  associated with the vagus nerve  ( tenth cranial nerve ) 
the lobe at the anterior part of each cerebral hemisphere ,  responsible for olfactory functions .
the wedge - shaped fiber bundle of white matter in the dorsomedial side of the spinal cord that is made up of the fasciculus gracilis and fasciculus cuneatus ;  it is part of the ascending posterior column - medial lemniscus pathway that is important for well - localized fine touch and conscious proprioception
the area of white matter of the spinal cord located on either side of the ventral  ( anterior )  medial fissure
granule cell layer is also called the dg principal cell layer .
dorsal components of the striatum comprising the caudate nucleus and the putamen ,  in species that have distinct nuclei ;  the caudoputamen in species which don't .
regional part of telencephalon in some species ,  e .g . ,  rodent ,  equivalent to the dorsal striatum  ( caudate nucleus and putamen )  .
an epithelium that lines the nasal cavity .
an array of photoreceptors and any supporting cells found in an eye .
a transparent structure that is part of a visual sense organ ,  the function of which is to direct or focus light onto a photoreceptor array .
one of: the common carotid artery ,  or its branches ,  the external and internal carotid arteries .
an arachnoid mater that surrounds a brain .
a sex gland that is part of a female reproductive system .
a sex gland that is part of a male reproductive system .
an arachnoid mater that is part of a telencephalon .
a gray matter that is part of a cerebral hemisphere .
the vertical groove found on the median line of the upper lip ,  extending to the nose
a composite structure of the telencephalon that is defined in the striatopallidal system by connectivity and neurochemical staining .
a suture between frontal and nasal bones
the small parasympathetic ganglion found anterior to the submandibular gland that provides postsynaptic fibers to the sublingual gland
any of any of the secretory or sensory organs located in the brain region around or in relation to the ventricular system that are characterized by extensive vasculature and a lack of a normal blood brain barrier  ( bbb )  and allow for the linkage between the central nervous system and peripheral blood flow .
the part of the digestive system that excludes the hepatobiliary system .
a otic capsule endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the cartilage or bony capsule surrounding the inner ear mechanism
groove that is in the developing ventral optic cup and through which blood vessels pass to the enclosed mesenchyme [ zfa ]  .
this tract conveys interoceptive ,  proprioceptive ,  and exteroceptive information from the body's internal organs ,  and from the trunk ,  extremities ,  and neck region to the cerebellum .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb .
a limb bud that develops into a forelimb or pectoral fin .
a limb bud that develops into a hindlimb or pelvic fin .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pectoral appendage bud .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a pelvic appendage bud .
portion of tissue that is the outer layer of the optic cup and will become the retinal pigmented epithelium .
portion of tissue that is the inner layer of the optic cup and will become the neural retina .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the lens .
portion of tissue that is part of the eye and gives rise to the mature ,  fully layered cornea .
vagal neural crest is adjacent to the first seven somites gives rise to both ganglionic and ectomesenchymal derivatives [ zfa ]  .
a loop of nerves that are part of the cervical plexus that lies superficial to the internal jugular vein in the carotid sheath .
the dilated structure that is lined by endothelial cells and located at the arterial pole of the heart just above  ( distal to )  the truncus arteriosus in mammalian embryos ;  it is the primordial vascular channel from which the aortic arches  ( and eventually the dorsal aortae )  arise ;  the aortic sac is homologous to the ventral aorta of gill - bearing vertebrates
the short trunk that recieves most of the cardiac veins carrying the blood from the myocardium and delivers it to the right atrium ,  with the sinoatrial connection occurring between the inferior vena cava and the atrioventricular orifice
a fetal blood vessel connecting the pulmonary artery with the descending aorta [ mesh ]  .
the lateral abdominal wall muscle that is the most superficial ,  immediately superficial to the internal oblique .
a segment of autopod that is part of a pes .
the foramen rotundum is a circular hole in the sphenoid bone that connects the middle cranial fossa and the pterygopalatine fossa .
a segment of autopod that is part of a manus .
the lateral abdominal wall muscle that is deep to the external oblique and superficial to the transversus .
the jugular foramen is a large aperture in the base of the skull .
a thymus lobe that is in the left side of a thymus .
a vitelline vein that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
an axial muscle that originates in the cervical vertebraae inserts on the scapula .
subdivision of abdominal segment of trunk which in humans is demarcated from the front of the abdomen by the posterior surface of the anterior layer of the thoracolumbar fascia and the anterior surface of the lumbar vertebral column ;  together with the front of the abdomen ,  it constitutes the abdomen [ modified from fma ]  .
a space between the capsule and the cortex which allows the free movement of lymphatic fluid and so contains a sparsity of lymphocytes .
the obturator nerve arises from the ventral divisions of the second ,  third ,  and fourth lumbar nerves ;  the branch from the third is the largest ,  while that from the second is often very small .
the platysma is a pharyngeal arch 2 muscle and a superficial facial muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors and is innervated by the cervical branch of the facial nerve .
a thymus lobe that is in the right side of a thymus .
a vitelline vein that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a subdivision of an organism along the anterior - posterior axis in the pelvic region immediately posterior to the lumbar region and anterior to the caudal region .
a portion of the lateral venous sinus ,  bulging prominently into the mastoid cavity ,  that serves as a principal conduit by which blood leaves the cranium [ epic ]  .
trunk part of spinal nerve ,  where dorsal and ventral roots meet to form the spinal nerve ,  before branching off to dorsal and ventral rami .
a longitudinal groove in the neural tube wall that divides the neural tube into dorsal  ( alar )  and ventral  ( basal )  halves  ( dorsal receives input from sensory neurons ,  ventral effects motor functions )  ;  stretches from the mesencephalon caudad [ tmd ]  .
either of the two lateral lobes that constitute the thymus .
a valve leaflet that is part of a tricuspid valve .
a venous channel found between layers of dura mater in the brain .
the paired veins that carry blood from the yolk sac back to the embryo
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the glossopharyngeal ganglion .
a blood vessel that is associated with the lens .
one of a group of muscles used in mastication and swallowing .
portion of tissue on the side of the lumen of the neural tube .
multi - tissue structure that arises from the heart rudiment and will become the heart tube .
hindbrain segment or neuromere 1 .
a neural tube lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere .
a small outgrowth of the pharyngeal epithelium that is the site of lymphocyte cell production [ zfa ]  .
cranial neural crest which gives rise to the trigeminal ganglion .
portion of tissue that gives rise to the immature gonad .
cranial neural crest that gives rise to the facio - acoustic ganglion .
a rhombomere lateral wall that is part of a rhombomere 1 .
a rhombomere roof plate that is part of a rhombomere 1 .
somite located in the head region ,  caudal to the otic vesicle
a pair of lateral diverticula just over the liver rudiment representing the primordia of the lungs ,  formed by the floor of the foregut just anterior to the liver diverticulum .
a somite that is part of a trunk .
the portion of mesentery attached to the greater curvature of the stomach is named the dorsal mesentery  ( or dorsal mesogastrium ,  when referring to the portion at the stomach )  ,  and the part which suspends the colon is termed the mesocolon .
any of the arteries that arise from a bifurcation of the aorta supplying the pelvic or abdomen .
any of the three veins including the common ,  external and internal iliac veins .
a corner of the medial  ( inner )  part of an eye .
a layer of cuboidal epithelial cells bounded anteriorly by the capsule of the lens and posteriorly by the lens cortex .
arteries which arise from the abdominal aorta and distribute to most of the intestines .
a vein that returns blood from the intestines .
the outgrowths of the embryonic maxillary prominences that come together during prenatal development to form the secondary palate
the part of the palate formed from the intermaxillary segment .
the valves that gate the flow of blood from the ventricles into the aorta and pulmonary trunk
artery that supplies blood to the adrenal glands .
the cavity formed by the tubotympanic recess epithelium .
portion of ventral mesentery closest to the stomach .
a vascular network formed by frequent anastomoses between the blood vessels  ( arteries or veins )  of a part .
intrinsic membrane that arises from embryonic germ layers and grow to surround the developing embryo .
an epithelium that is part of a pylorus .
an epithelium that is part of a anterior chamber of eyeball .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 2 .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 3 .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 4 .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 5 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 2 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 3 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 4 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
a dental epithelium that is part of a upper jaw molar .
a dental epithelium that is part of a lower jaw molar .
an epithelium that is part of a lens vesicle .
an epithelium that is part of a secondary palatal shelf .
an epithelium that is part of a primary palate .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an ectoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
an endoderm that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
a mesothelium that is part of a peritoneal cavity .
an endothelium that is part of a right lung .
an endothelium that is part of a left lung .
a dorsal mesentery that is part of a midgut .
a orbitosphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a lens vesicle .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 5 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 2 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 3 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 4 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 5 .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a upper jaw molar .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a lower jaw molar .
mesenchyme that is part of a optic eminence .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing secondary palatal shelf .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing primary palate .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a upper jaw incisor .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a lower jaw incisor .
a dental epithelium that is part of a upper jaw incisor .
a dental epithelium that is part of a lower jaw incisor .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a foregut .
a mesentery of duodenum that is part of a midgut .
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a footplate .
a venous system that is part of a hindbrain .
a mesoderm that has the potential to develop into a pronephros .
a tissue that is part of a spinal cord and is part of a roof plate .
a sensory system that is capable of olfacttion  ( the sensory perception of smell )  .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pectoral appendage bud mesenchyme .
a limb / fin field that has the potential to develop into a pelvic appendage bud mesenchyme .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb or paired fin [ gilbert , modified ]  .
a ring of cells capable of forming a limb .
the outermost layer of a blood vessel ,  composed mainly of fibrous tissue .
a tunica intima that is part of a artery .
an outermost connective tissue covering of an organ ,  vessel ,  or other structure [ wp ]  .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone ,  usually for passage of blood vessels or nerves .
an opening in the skull through which cranial nerve ii passes .
the capillary loops of the kidney that normally function as a filtration unit [ mp ]  .
the metanephros develops from the most caudal part of the nephrogenic cord that is itself derived from the intermediate plate mesoderm .
the initial renal anlage that develops from the most rostral part of the nephrogenic cord is termed the pronephros .
a acellular anatomical structure that is the bounding layer of a anatomical structure .
an acellular membrane that is part of the epithelium ,  lies adjacent to the epithelial cells ,  and is the fusion of the the basal lamina and the reticular lamina .
the layer of extracellular matrix that lies between the endothelium of the glomerular capillaries and the podocytes of the inner or visceral layer of the bowman capsule ;  it is a fusion of the endothelial cell and podocyte basal laminas and acts as a physical barrier and an ion - selective filter
layer of the glomerular basement membrane adjacent to the glomerular capillary .
nephric tubules  ( nephrons )  form embryonically along the nephric ridge .
any portion of the aorta including the ascending and descending aorta ,  and aortic arch or a portion of the aortic orifice of the left ventricle .
the dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single - pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body .
in the circulatory system of animals ,  a portal venous system occurs when a capillary bed drains into another capillary bed through veins ,  without first going through the heart .
a bone tissue that is part of a long bone .
the outer or sperficial part of a bone of the manus .
a round nodule ,  small eminence ,  or warty outgrowth found on bones ,  skin ,  or within the lungs in tuberculosis .
a vertebral arch that is part of the first cervical vertebra
a fascicle that is part of a spinal cord .
a fascicle that is part of a brain .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a sacral region .
a spinal cord segment that adjacent_to a caudal region .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a sacral spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a subdivision of spinal cord ventral column that is part of a lumbar spinal cord .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme .
cell condensation that is an aggregation of mesenchymal cells that are committed to differentiate into chondroblasts and chondrocytes .
a delimited region of dense mesenchyme within looser mesenchyme whose cells are committed to become chondroblasts .
the paired ventral prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo ;  the two prominences unite ventrally and fuse to form the mandible and lower lip
the paired dorsal prominences formed by bifurcation of the first pharyngeal arches in the embryo that unite with the ipsilateral medial nasal process to form the upper jaw
an indentation of the olfactory placode which ends when the pits hollows out to form the nasopharynx [ go ]  .
a groove that is situated between the 1st and 2nd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 2nd and 3rd pharyngeal arch .
a groove that is situated between the 3rd and 4th pharyngeal arch .
the embryonic anlage of the external genitalia ,  which emerges as paired swellings ventral to the cloacal membrane ,  is proposed to be derived from all three germ layers ,  and gives rise to the penis ,  clitoris ,  scrotum ,  labia ,  and foreskin
an external pocketing of pharyngeal ectoderm that contacts a region of endoderm  ( a pharyngeal pouch )  and interdigitates in the anterior and posterior directions by the pharyngeal arches .
a subdivision of the autopod that corresponds to one or more bones arranged in series branching from the main limb axis .
a subdivision of skeleton that supports pharyngeal arch 2 .
the epithelial lining of the surface of the coelom .
a bone that is part of the region of the hindlimb that includes the zeugopod and stylopod .
a bone that is part of the manus skeleton .
a bone that is part of the pes skeleton
anatomical cluster that is located in the posterior region of the cranium and forms the margin of the foramen magnum and occipital condyles .
each seminal vesicle consists of a single tube ,  coiled upon itself ,  and giving off several irregular cecal diverticula ;  the separate coils ,  as well as the diverticula ,  are connected together by fibrous tissue .
any of the ducts that are part of a male reproductive system .
organ with organ cavity ,  which has as parts a serous membrane and a serous cavity  .
a serous sac which is the aggregate of the conjunctiva plus the conjunctival space
epithelium that derives from the endoderm .
a naris that provides one of the small external openings of the head that give passage to air for breathing .
subdivision of skeleton which consists of cranial skeleton ,  set of all vertebrae ,  set of all ribs and sternum [ fma ,  modified ]  .
an outflow tract that is part of a cardiac atrium .
anteriosuperior ,  smooth - walled portion of the cavity of the right ventricle ,  beginning at the supraventricular crest and terminating in the pulmonary trunk
anterosuperior fibrous portion of the left ventricle that connects to the ascending aorta .
outflow part of atrium which consists of wall and cavity of the outflow part of right atrium and the tricuspid valve .
an outflow tract of atrium that is part of a left atrium .
a pore - like structure surrounding the entire circumference of the anterior chamber of the eye through which aqueous humor circulates [ mp ]  .
any of the nerve fiber tracts that span the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral and / or cerebellar hemispheres of the brain
a sheet of somatopleure that grows upward over the embryo and eventually meets in the midline enclosing the embryo ,  eventually giving rise to the amnion and chorion [ kardong ]  .
the vertical crest of the interior wall of the right atrium that lies to the right of the sinus of the vena cava and separates this from the remainder of the right atrium
the laminar structure of the heart
any of the arteries or veins that supply blood to the heart or return blood from the heart muscles to the circulation
the supporting bundles of muscular fibers lining the walls of the atrial myocardium
the wall of the heart that separates the right atrium and left ventricle ;  and is located just above the septal cusp of the tricuspid valve
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flap of the aortic valve
the fibrous ring of the aortic valve that attaches the cusps of aortic valve to the wall of left ventricle ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the posterior ,  right anterior and left anterior cusps
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flap of the pulmonary valve
the fibrous ring of the pulmonary valve that attaches the cusps of pulmonary valve to the wall of right ventricle ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior ,  right posterior and left posterior cusps
the tendinous strands that connect the papillary muscles on the wall of the ventricles to the leaflets of the atrioventricular valves ;  the chordae tendineae serve to prevent the av valves from prolapsing back into the atria
the fibrous ring of the mitral valve that attaches the cusps of mitral valve to the heart ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior and posterior cusps
the two fibrous components and associated flaps of the mitral valve
the fibrous ring of the tricuspid valve that attaches the cusps of tricuspid valve to the heart ,  and which consists of portions of the fibrous scallops of the anterior cusp  ( infundibular cusp )  ,  the posterior cusp  ( marginal cusp )  ,  and the septal cusp  ( medial cusp ) 
the three fibrous triangular components and associated flaps of the tricuspid valve
the paired arteries that carry blood to the yolk sac from the dorsal aorta
anatomical structure embedded in or located in the integument that is part of the integumental system .
a ring of ribrous tissue that surrounds the atrioventricular and arterial orifices
the part of the heart valves that serves to seal the heart valves when closed .
a small transparent canal running through the vitreous body from the optical nerve disc to the lens .
a digit that is part of a digit 1 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 2 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 3 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 4 plus metapodial segment .
a digit that is part of a digit 5 plus metapodial segment .
a collection of two or more connected limb segments .
the falx cerebri ,  also known as the cerebral falx ,  so named from its sickle - like form ,  is a strong ,  arched fold of dura mater which descends vertically in the longitudinal fissure between the cerebral hemispheres .
a process projection from a part of the vertebra such as centrum or arches .
paired processes at the cephalic and caudal ends of the neural arch .
one of the cartilaginous structures surrounding the embryonic spinal cord ,  formed by the dorsal growth of the dorsolateral arcualia ;  it is the primordium of the vertebral arch .
any collection of muscles that is part of a hindlimb zeugopod .
a bone that is part of a post - anal tail .
subdivision of an organism along anterior - posterior axis that is the posteriormost region ,  extending past the anus  ( or cloaca ,  if present )  ,  consisting of a tail in some fully formed chordates  ( or a tail bud in embryos )  .
that portion of the spine comprising the cervical vertebrae .
that part of the spine comprising the thoracic vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the lumbar subdivision of the body ,  containing the lumbar vertebrae .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the sacral subdivision of the body ,  containing the sacral vertebrae or sacrum .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the caudal subdivision of the body ,  containing the caudal vertebrae .
a collection of all skeletal elements in some subdivision of the vertebral column .
the deep nuclei of telencephalic origin found in the basal region of the forebrain
a funiculus of neuraxis that is part of a spinal cord .
the cerebrospinal nerves consist of numerous nerve fibers collected together and enclosed in membranous sheaths .
a threadlike extension of a nerve cell and consists of an axon and myelin sheath  ( if it is myelinated )  in the nervous system .
axons of neurons encased in a lipoproteinaceous material called myelin .
the mesonephric capsule is the tough fibrous layer surrounding the mesonephros ,  covered in a thick layer of perinephric adipose tissue .
a band running from the pubic tubercle to the anterior superior iliac spine .
acute angle occurring between the iris and the cornea at the periphery of the anterior chamber of the eye [ mp ]  .
the spiral septum that separates the truncus arteriosus into a ventral pulmonary trunk and the dorsal aorta [ mp ]  .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 that develop into the folds of the pinna and gradually shift upwards and backwards to their final position on the head .
the thin bilaminar membrane derived from the prechordal plate that is devoid of mesoderm and formed by the apposition of the stomodeal ectoderm with the foregut endoderm ;  after the embryonic head fold has evolved it lies at the caudal limit of the stomodeum ,  forming a septum between the primitive mouth and pharynx ;  the membrane eventually disappears ,  and thus a communication is established between the mouth and the future pharynx .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a carpal bone .
the posterior section of the developing metencephalon recognized transiently within the vertebrate embryo ;  the rhombic lip extends posteriorly from the roof of the fourth ventricle to dorsal neuroepithelial cell and can be divided into eight structural units based on rhombomeres 1 - 8  ( r1 - r8 )  ,  recognized at early stages of hindbrain development ;  producing granule cells and five brainstem nuclei ,  the rhombic lip plays an important role in developing a complex cerebellar neural system
the membrane that covers the embryonic cloaca ,  formed by the union of proctodeal  ( anal pit )  ectoderm and cloacal endoderm ,  with no intervening mesoderm ;  the urorectal septum joins the cloacal membrane and divides it into an anal membrane and a urogenital membrane ;  the point where the urorectal septum intersects the cloacal membrane is the future site of the perineal body ;  proliferation of mesoderm and ectoderm around the cloacal membrane produces primordial tissues of the external genitalia in both sexes: the genital tubercle ,  genital folds ,  and genital swellings .
the foremost region of the future forebrain that develops into the diencephalon .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a female reproductive system .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the foregut and midgut .
the embryonic precursor of the brain .
a tendon that has the potential to develop into a central tendon .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain .
a sac - like cavity ventral to the liver ,  lying in the sub - mesodermal space and closed by a thin sheet of ectodermal cells ,  from which the future gall bladder develops .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a humerus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a incus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a ischial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a ischial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a differentiated genital tubercle that is part of a male reproductive system .
a malleus endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
an anatomical junctions that overlaps the mouth and foregut .
groove between maxillary prominence and lateral nasal process .
the notochordal plate is the dorsal part of the notochordal process when the ventral portion breaks down .
a midline cellular cord formed from the migration of mesenchymal cells from the primitive knot
either of two openings transmitting nerves and blood vessels to or from the orbit .
the pair of depressions of thickened otic placode epithelium ,  that further develops into the otic vesicles
each of the canals that links the peritoneal cavity and the caudal part of a pleural cavity .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac ventricle .
future brain vesicle that gives rise to telencephalic ventricle / lateral ventricles and 3rd ventricle
a pubic endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a radius bone .
a radius - ulna endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a rib endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a scapula endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a dense syncitial - like mesenchymal thickening in the dorsal mesogastrium [ isbn ]  .
a stapes endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a sublingual gland .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a submandibular gland .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a ulna .
a segment of the eyeball that is filled with refractive media
body substance in a liquid or semi - solid state in the eyeball which serves to refract light .
liquid components of living organisms .
thin ,  narrow muscle placed near the anterior margin of the floor of the orbit .
the superior oblique muscle ,  or obliquus oculi superior ,  is a fusiform muscle in the upper ,  medial side of the orbit whose primary action is downward ,  lateral rotation of the eye .
a muscle in the orbit that depresses ,  adducts ,  and helps extort  ( rotate laterally )  the eye .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a brainstem .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a lateral ventricle .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a third ventricle .
a choroid plexus stroma that is part of a fourth ventricle .
an artery that connects two larger arteries .
an external iliac artery branch that supplies blood to the anterior abdominal wall .
a vein that drains the anterior abdominal wall .
a costal cartilage that is part of a xiphoid process .
a bone tissue that is part of a xiphoid process .
the unique bone located in the glans penis of most mammals except humans ;  it is used for copulation and varies in size and shape by species
the ossified region of endochondral and membranous bone located in the clitoris of most mammals except humans ;  it is homologous to the penile bone  ( aka as baculum ,  penis bone or os penis )  in male mammals
a ring of fibrous or fibrocartilaginous tissue  ( as of an intervertebral disk or surrounding an orifice of the heart )  .
any of the interosseous muscles of the pes  ( foot )  .
any of the muscles of the autopod region that lie between metacarpal or metatarsal bones .
part of what are called the basal ganglia of the brain which consist of the globus pallidus and the ventral pallidum .
recesses of the kidney pelvis which divides into two wide ,  cup - shaped major renal calices ,  with each major calix subdivided into 7 to 14 minor calices .
a substance formed from the secretion of one or more glands of the male genital tract in which sperm cells are suspended .
the muscles that move the eye .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a zone of skin .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a male reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a female reproductive gland .
a portion of organism substance that secreted_by a respiratory system .
a substance that is secreted by a mammary gland .
a vasculature that is part of a kidney .
a tube in the kidney that collect and transport urine .
a tube that is part of a excretory system .
an organ system subdivision that is a network of vessels capable of removing accumulating protein and fluid from the interstitial space and returning it to the vascular space .
an organ system subdivision that is the part of the lymphoid system that excludes the lymphatic vessels . .
the pharynx is the part of the digestive system immediately posterior to the mouth [ go ]  .
tunica media of artery which is continuous with the myocardium of right ventricle .
a urethral meatus that is part of a female urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a myocardium that is part of a left ventricle of a heart .
a myocardium that is part of a right ventricle of a heart .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a hypothalamus .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a diencephalon .
the pectinate line  ( anocutaneous line ,  dentate line ,  anorectal junction )  is a line which divides the upper 2 / 3rds and lower 1 / 3rd of the anal canal .
an organ that is part of a vestibular system .
the round ligament of the uterus originates at the uterine horns ,  in the parametrium .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into endoderm .
portion of embryonic tissue determined by fate mapping to become a structure .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into ectoderm .
presumptive structure of the blastula that will develop into mesoderm .
a cartilaginous joint that connects left and right mandibles / dentary bones .
the corpus cavernosum clitoridis is one of a pair of sponge - like regions of erectile tissue which contain most of the blood in the clitoris during clitoral erection .
a sheet of extracellular matrix .
a large vein or channel for the circulation of venous blood
an external ear that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
an external ear that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
an artery with its origin in the lateral terminal branch of the internal thoracic artery ,  with distribution to the diaphragm and the intercostal muscles ,  and with anastomoses to the branches of the pericardiacophrenic and inferior phrenic .
a process of the scapula in most mammals representing the remnant of the coracoid bone of lower vertebrates thas has become fused with the scapula .
the abdominal wall represents the boundaries of the abdominal cavity .
a muscle layer that is part of a fallopian tube .
an adventitia that is part of a epididymis .
a muscle layer that is part of a epididymis .
an adventitia that is part of a vas deferens .
an adventitia that is part of a seminal vesicle .
erectile tissue at the end of the clitoris ,  which is continuous with the intermediate part of the vestibulovaginal bulbs [ bto ]  .
an incomplete wall of connective tissue and nonstriated muscle  ( dartos fascia )  dividing the scrotum into two sacs ,  each containing a testis .
anatomical cavity for the proximal articular surface of the proximal limb or fin element with the scapulocoracoid or equivalent structure .
a joint that connects one phalanx to another along a proximodistal axis .
a region of muscle in many organs in the vertebrate body ,  adjacent to the submucosa membrane .
the galea aponeurotica  ( epicranial aponeurosis ,  aponeurosis epicranialis )  is a tough layer of dense fibrous tissue which covers the upper part of the cranium ;  behind ,  it is attached ,  in the interval between its union with the occipitales ,  to the external occipital protuberance and highest nuchal lines of the occipital bone ;  in front ,  it forms a short and narrow prolongation between its union with the frontales .
the greater palatine artery is a terminal branch of the maxillary artery .
on the interior surface of the temporal bone ,  behind the rough surface of the apex ,  is the large circular aperture of the carotid canal ,  which ascends at first vertically ,  and then ,  making a bend ,  runs horizontally forward and medialward .
the three - lobed cloverleaf - shaped aponeurosis situated at the center of the diaphragm ;  the central tendon is fused with the fibrous pericardium that provides attachment for the muscle fibers
a fat pad that is part of a orbital region .
a canal within the mandible that contains the inferior alveolar nerve ,  inferior alveolar artery ,  and inferior alveolar vein .
an entrance or exit of the inguinal canal
a valve that is part of a vein .
an anatomical boundary that adjacent_to a epithelium .
the hypoglossal canal is a bony canal in the occipital bone of the skull .
a gap between bones in the skull at the junction of the sagittal suture and lambdoidal suture .
a vein that is part of a vertebral column .
a small fold of mucous membrane extending from the floor of the mouth to the midline of the underside of the tongue .
a conduit enclosed within the vertebral foramen of the vertebrae through which the spinal cord passes .
a vasculature that is part of a cerebellum .
paired ,  long bones of endochondral origin formed by the fusion of the radius and ulna .
the third segment of the limb ,  including either the wrist segment  ( carpus )  or the ankle segment  ( tarsus ) 
the collection of all skeletal elements in an autopodium region .
the medial pterygoid is a pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors and is innervated by the nerve to the medial pterygoid and attaches to the cranial base and the medial side of the mandibular angle .
pharyngeal arch 1 muscle that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors ,  is innervated by the lateral pterygoid nerve branches ,  and attaches to the condylar process of the mandible and temporomandibular joint  ( tmj )  capsule ,  and the cranial base .
the handle of the malleus ;  the portion that extends downward ,  inward ,  and backward from the neck of the malleus ;  it is embedded throughout its length in the tympanic membrane .
the central cone shaped core of spongy bone about which turns the spiral canal
a corner of the outer  ( lateral )  part of an eye .
a canthus is a corner of the eye where the upper and lower eyelids meet .
during the third week of embryological development there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
during the third week there appears ,  immediately behind the ventral ends of the two halves of the mandibular arch ,  a rounded swelling named the tuberculum impar ,  which was described by his as undergoing enlargement to form the buccal part of the tongue .
the edge of the cornea where it joins the sclera ;  the limbus is a common site for the occurrence of corneal epithelial neoplasm
the zonule of zinn  ( zinn's membrane ,  ciliary zonule )  is a ring of fibrous strands connecting the ciliary body with the crystalline lens of the eye .
layer of nonkeratinized squamous epithelium lining the conjunctiva ,  overlying scleral tissue
the hemispheric articular surface at the upper extremity of the thigh bone [ stedman ,  26th ed ]  .
an epithelium that is composed primarily of secretory cells .
non - material anatomical entity of one dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical surface or is a modulation of an anatomical surface .
hemispherical structure on proximal epiphysis of humerus that articulates with glenoid cavity [ wp , modified ]  .
medial end of the clavicle ,  which usually lies on the ventral side of the epicoracoid cartilage ,  just posterior to the epicoracoid bridge .
the olecranon is a large ,  thick ,  curved bony eminence of the forearm that projects behind the elbow .
the mental foramen is one of two holes  ( 'foramina' )  located on the anterior surface of the mandible .
structural framework that provides support to the nasal sacs and ducts .
loose connective tissue located at the outer and inner layers of organs .
the head of ulna presents an articular surface ,  part of which ,  of an oval or semilunar form ,  is directed downward ,  and articulates with the upper surface of the triangular articular disk which separates it from the wrist - joint ;  the remaining portion ,  directed lateralward ,  is narrow ,  convex ,  and received into the ulnar notch of the radius .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a trachea .
branch of spinal nerve that innervates the hypaxial muscles
branch of spinal nerve that innervates the epaxial muscles
a raised area of the biting surface of a tooth .
a furrow or an incomplete tube .
a nervous system commissure that connects a left hemisphere of cerebellum and connects a right hemisphere of cerebellum .
endochondral bone that is dorsoventrally compressed and provides attachment site for muscles of the pectoral appendage .
a muscular coat that is part of a ureter .
this gland can either be a discrete structure located bilaterally above each kidney ,  or a cluster of cells in the head kidney that perform the functions of the adrenal gland .
subdivision of long bone which forms the part of the bone between two metaphyses .
a diaphysis that is part of a femur [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a distal metaphysis that is part of a femur .
a metaphysis that is part of a femur .
the distalmost portion of the digestive tract ,  derived from the hindgut ,  and terminating with the anus .
the anal triangle is the posterior part of the perineum .
a gland that secretes a seminal fluid .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the pes  ( foot ) 
an apical ectodermal ridge that is part of a handplate .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the manus  ( hand ) 
a vasculature that is part of a organ .
a vasculature that is part of a liver .
a head mesenchyme that develops_from a mesoderm .
mesenchyme that is part of a mandibular prominence .
the lateral surface parts of the external nose ,  inferiorly ,  surrounding the naris [ eom ]  .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a digestive tract .
an epithelium that is part of a lip .
an epithelium characterised by its most superficial layer consisting of squamous epithelial cells .
multilaminar epithelium which consists of more than one layer of squamous cells only one layer of which is in contact with a basement membrane .
a non - keratinized stratified squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a esophagus .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a stomach .
the squamous epithelium of the cervical portio is similar to that of the vagina ,  except that it is generally smooth and lacks rete pegs .
a squamous epithelium that is part of a vagina .
a glandular epithelium that lines the stomach .
any gland that is part of the digestive system .
simple columnar epithelium that constitutes the secretory part of a gland .
stomach mucosa that is lined with glandular epithelium and part of a stomach glandular region .
an epithelium that is part of a vestibular labyrinth .
simple columnar epithelium made up of cells specialized to serve as sensory cells for the reception of external stimuli ,  as the sensory cells of the cochlea ,  vestibule ,  nasal mucosa ,  and tongue .
the epithelial cells lining the capsule and trabeculae of the thymus
the epithelial cell layer containing the sensory hair cells and their associated sensory nerve terminals
an epithelium that is part of a pinna .
the efferent ducts  ( or efferent ductules or ductuli efferentes )  connect the rete testis with the initial section of the epididymis .
a duct or series of ducts that transports sperm from the gonad .
an epithelium that is part of a efferent duct .
the ejaculatory duct epithelium is composed of cuboidal to columnar cells between or through which project the terminal parts of the ducts of the unicellular prostate glands .
an epithelium that is part of a uterus .
the inner lining of the cheeks and lips .
an epithelium that is part of a submandibular gland primordium .
the stroma of the ovary is a peculiar soft tissue ,  abundantly supplied with blood vessels ,  consisting for the most part of spindle - shaped cells with a small amount of ordinary connective tissue .
the vascular cord is the primordial vasculature that will develop into blood vessels by the process of tubulogenesis [ go ]  .
a capillary that is part of the coronary system .
non - material anatomical entity of zero dimension ,  which forms a boundary of an anatomical line or surface .
a two dimensional anatomical structure that is the boundary between an anatomical structure and an anatomical substance ,  an anatomical space or the organism's environment .
the splanchnic mesoderm in the cardiogenic region where the heart develops ;  it gives rise to endocardial heart tubes that fuse to form the primordial cardiac tube ,  the heart primordium [ web ]  .
organism at the cleavage stage .
a multicellular organism that is at the juvenile stage .
a multicellular organism that existence_ends_with a post - juvenile adult stage and existence_starts_with a post - juvenile adult stage .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the mandibular arch .
cranial neural crest that migrates into the hyoid arch .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  keeps up the circulation of the blood or analogs [ go , modified ]  .
one of the first set of teeth in the growth development of humans and many other mammals [ wp ]  .
the set of teeth first in order or time of development that will be replaced by permanent dentition upon their loss .
the pit in the center of the abdominal wall marking the point where the umbilical cord entered in the fetus .
the femur neck or neck of the femur is a flattened pyramidal process of bone ,  connecting the femoral head with the femoral shaft ,  and forming with the latter a wide angle opening medialward .
the premolar teeth or bicuspids are transitional teeth located between the canine and molar teeth .
a pharyngeal pouch that is between pharyngeal arches 1 and 2 .
a pharyngeal puch that is between the pharyngeal arches 2 and 3 .
a pharyngeal pouch that between pharyngeal arches 3 and 4 .
portion of tissue that consists of the precursors of the pronephric glomus or glomerulus ;  derived from the medial portion of the pronephric intermediate mesoderm .
ganglion which is located in the trunk .
an intermediate stage  ( between the neural plate and neural rod )  during the early segmentation period in the morphogenesis of the central nervous system primordium ;  the keel is roughly triangular shaped in cross section .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a left common carotid artery plus branches .
an internal carotid artery that branching_part_of a right common carotid artery plus branches .
an embryonic structure that will either develop into a post - anal tail or recede into a vestigial remnant of the tail .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a midgut .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a hindgut .
a valve leafleft that is part of a mitral valve .
the inferior thyroid veins two ,  frequently three or four ,  in number ,  arise in the venous plexus on the thyroid gland ,  communicating with the middle and superior thyroid veins .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a anal canal .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a colon .
the inferior petrosal sinus ,  within the human head ,  is an area beneath the brain ,  which allows blood veins to span the area ,  from the center of the head downward .
the lateral border  ( or axillary border ,  or margin )  is the thickest of the three borders of the scapula .
the medial border of the scapula  ( vertebral border ,  medial margin )  is the longest of the three borders ,  and extends from the medial to the inferior angle .
an angle of the scapula formed by the union of the vertebral and axillary borders ;  its dorsal surface affords attachment to the teres major and frequently to a few fibers of the latissimus dorsi .
a lamina propria that is part of a colonic mucosa .
a serous membrane that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a muscle layer that is part of a uterine tube infundibulum .
a mesothelium that is part of a serous pericardium .
the stroma of the bone marrow is all tissue not directly involved in the primary function of hematopoiesis .
the structure from the trachea ,  bronchi ,  and bronchioles that forms the airways that supply air to the lungs .
multicellular organism that can produce both male and female gametes .
the vasculature consisting of brachiocephalic arteries and veins .
mesenchyme that develops_from a cranial neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a trunk neural crest .
an embryo stage that covers late steps of the embryogenesis with a fully formed embryo still developing before birth or egg hatching .
the osseous cochlea is the bony foundation that forms the small shell arrangement for the cochlear nerve .
a cranial nucleus for the vestibular nerve .
a tunica media that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a artery .
a tunica adventitia that is part of a vein .
a tunica intima that is part of a vein .
a tunica media that is part of a vein .
gray matter of the central nervous system which is a collection of clustered nuclei .
any of the nuclei that comprise the superior olivary complex  ( superior olive )  .
the lymph tissue on the floor of the oropharyngeal passage ,  near the root of the tongue
an intervertebral disk that is part of a cervical region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a thoracic region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a lumbar region of vertebral column .
an intervertebral disk that is part of a sacral region of vertebral column .
a intervertebral disk that connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 3 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 4 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 4 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 5 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 5 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 6 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a vertebral bone 2 and connects a mammalian cervical vertebra 3 .
a intervertebral disk that connects a vertebral bone 1 and connects a vertebral bone 2 .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a trachea .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic appendage .
any collection of muscles that is part of an appendage .
skeletal subdivision consisting of the anterior appendicular limb skeleton ,  excluding the pectoral girdle .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic appendage region .
the rhombencephalon  ( or hindbrain )  is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates .
portion of tissue that is part of the heart tube and will become the sinus venosus .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a atrioventricular canal .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a endocardium .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the midbrain hindbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a presomitic mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a neural plate .
the part of the blastula that has the potential to develop into a paraxial mesoderm .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a forebrain - midbrain boundary .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a rhombomere 1 .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a pronephric mesoderm .
a choroid plexus that is part of a cerebral aqueduct .
a blood vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a blood vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a vasculature that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a vasculature that is part of a chordate pharynx .
a vasculature that is part of a limb / fin .
a glomerular capillary that is part of a pronephros .
a glomerular basement membrane that is part of a pronephros .
either the internal or external pudendal arteries .
the internal pudendal artery is an artery that branches off the internal iliac artery ,  providing blood to the external genitalia .
a dense accumulation of exocrine glands in the pancreas often surrounding islets of langerhans .
a duct that collects and carries secretions of the exocrine pancreas to the intestine .
a triangular plate of elastic fibrocartilage that forms the cartilage component of the pharyngotympanic tube .
the bony part of pharyngotympanic tube is about 12 mm .
an anatomical surface that is part of a tongue .
the upper  ( superior )  side of the tongue .
the lower  ( inferior )  side of the tongue .
a incus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a multi - tissue structure consisting of bone and soft tissue that forms a part of the roof of the oral cavity .
the epidermis is the entire outer epithelial layer of an animal ,  it may be a single layer that produces an extracellular material  ( e .g .
outermost layer of cells surrounding the embryo .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a limb / fin .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a paired limb or fin .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pectoral appendage .
a cartilage tissue that is part of a pelvic appendage .
a nucleus of brain that spans a midbrain tegmentum .
any of the three large paired bundles of nerve fibers that connect the cerebellum to the brain stem
nerve fibers crossing the midline of the neuraxis relative to their point of origin ,  on a course to from one level of the nervous system to another .
a neural decussation that is part of a diencephalon .
the space within an epithelial sphere .
an epithelial tube that is open at one end only .
an epithelial tube open at both ends that allows fluid flow .
a collection of connected epithelial tubes with a single portal .
a closed epithelium with a lumen .
a ring of smooth muscle cells whose contraction closes the opening of the ring .
mesenchyme with little extracellular matrix .
mesenchyme whose cells are embedded in obvious amounts of extracellular matrix .
mesenchymal cells that are migrating .
a ciliated columnar epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
a cuboidal epithelium that is part of a oviduct .
simple columnar epithelium in which the luminal side of the cells bears cilia .
epithelium bearing vibratile cilia on the free surface .
stratified columnar epithelia is a rare type of epithelial tissue composed of column shaped cells arranged in multiple layers .
a thin ,  loose vascular connective tissue that makes up the membranes surrounding joints and the sheaths protecting tendons  ( particularly flexor tendons in the hands and feet )  where they pass over bony prominences .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a synovial joint .
a synovial cavity of joint that is part of a hip joint .
epithelial layer of the retina ,  ciliary body ,  or iris composed of cells containing pigment granules .
a neural nucleus that is part of a medulla oblongata .
the sensory trigeminal nerve nuclei are the largest of the cranial nerve nuclei ,  and extend through the whole of the midbrain ,  pons and medulla .
a lymph node that is part of a thorax .
a developing mesenchymal capsule that covers the developing brain and spinal cord and is the precursor of the meningeal cluster .
the innermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  primarily of neural crest origin .
the outermost layer of the mesenchymal capsule that surrounds the developing brain ,  of mixed paraxial mesoderm and neural crest origin .
an anatomical structure that connects two structures
a sphincter that is part of an esophagus .
functional unit of the kidney that forms urine ,  consisting of two parts ,  the nephron and the collecting tubule .
region of the embryo into the area in which the kidney rudiment will develop .
anlagen are populations of contiguous cells ,  typically arranged in one plane ,  that are morphologically indistinct ,  but that already correspond in extent to a later organ / tissue .
endodermal bud derived from the endodermal epithelium of the embryonic pharyngeal floor [ mp ]  .
the minute opening of a taste bud on the surface of the oral mucosa through which the gustatory hairs of the specialised neuroepithelial gustatory cells project .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a thalamus .
an axon tract that is part of a spinal cord .
an axon tract that is part of a brain .
a bone that is part of a reproductive organ .
the interphalangeal articulations of the foot  ( articulations of the phalanges )  are ginglymoid joints ,  and each has a plantar and two collateral ligaments .
the interphalangeal articulations of hand are hinge - joints of the phalanges of the hand .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 1 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 2 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 3 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 4 .
an interphalangeal joint of pes that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 2 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 3 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 4 .
an interphalangeal joint of manus that is part of a manual digit 5 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metacarpal bone and connects a proximal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
a skeletal joint that connects a metatarsal bone and connects a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a gland that is part of a epidermis .
any portion of sweat that is produced by a sweat gland of the scrotum .
any sweat gland that is part of a scrotum .
the teeth of adulthood that either replace or are added to the complement of deciduous teeth .
a tooth that forms after a primary tooth
an endothelium that is part of a umbilical artery .
any bodily fluid that has passed through a membrane such as the capillary wall ,  as a result of unbalanced hydrostatic and osmotic forces
any fluid produced by a serous gland .
anatomical system that consists of all blood and lymph vessels .
a bridge of mesoderm connecting the caudal end of the young embryo with the trophoblastic tissues ;  the precursor of the umbilical cord .
a vasculature that is part of a connecting stalk .
adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
the anteriormost subdivision of the body that includes the head ,  jaws ,  pharyngeal region and the neck  ( if present )  .
a tail that extends from the posterior tip of the organism to the anus ,  contains muscle and skeleton .
an organism subdivision that encompasses the region containing the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
mesentery that is located in the peritoneum .
external part of the nose containing the external nares .
a bone that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a bone that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
a bone element or fused bone that is part of pelvic girdle .
a subdivision of a limb or fin skeleton consisting of bones which connects the upper limb or fin to the axial skeleton on each side .
skeletal subdivision consisting of a set of bones linking the axial series to the hindlimb zeugopodium and offering anchoring areas for hindlimb and caudal musculature .
bone element that arises as a result of intramembranous ossification .
skeletal element that is composed of cartilage tissue and may be permanent or transient .
connective tissue ,  which consists of fibroblasts ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a regular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
connective tissue that is dominated by collagen fibres organized into a definitive pattern  ( e .g . ,  parallel to one another )  ,  with comparatively fewer cells  ( mostly fibroblasts )  .
a bone that is part of a craniocervical region .
a sesamoid bone that is part of a manus .
a sesamoid bone that is part of a pes .
the irregular bones are bones which ,  from their peculiar form ,  cannot be grouped as long bone ,  short bone ,  flat bone or sesamoid bone .
a skeletal joint that is part of a appendage girdle region .
a anatomical surface that is part of a cartilage element .
a tendon that attaches_to a biceps brachii .
a tendon that attaches_to a triceps brachii .
a bone that is hollow or contains many air cells ,  such as the mastoid process of the temporal bone [ tmd ]  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the nail plate is the hard and translucent portion of the nail ,  composed of keratin .
a subdivision of the face that is the anteriormost part of the lower jaw region .
the part of the face above the eyes [ mesh ]  .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the pelvis .
musculature system of the pharyngeal and head regions .
either of two muscles of the calf of the leg .
subdivision of thorax ,  which in humans is the posterior part of the thorax and is demarcated from the chest by the external surface of the posterolateral part of the rib cage and the anterior surface of the thoracic vertebral column ;  together with the chest ,  it constitutes the thorax .
a muscle of back that is part of a lower back .
a muscle of back that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
a clavicle that is in the right side of a entire appendicular skeleton .
a clavicle that is in the left side of a entire appendicular skeleton .
the fibrous connective tissue that surrounds the root of a tooth ,  separating it from and attaching it to the alveolar bone .
a knoblike tooth primordium that develops into the mature tooth and consists of enamel organ ,  dental papilla ,  and dental sac enclosing them .
an endothelium that is part of a heart  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a gland that is part of a nasopharynx .
the artery that serves blood to the penis .
the deep artery of the penis  ( artery to the corpus cavernosum )  ,  one of the terminal branches of the internal pudendal ,  arises from that vessel while it is situated between the two fascia of the urogenital diaphragm  ( deep perineal pouch )  .
the deep artery of clitoris is a branch of the internal pudendal artery .
with numerous vascular spaces that may become engorged with blood
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a clitoris .
the sole is the bottom of the foot .
a saddle - shaped area that includes the nasal root and the lateral aspects of the nose .
the tissue that links the nasal tip to the nasal base ,  and separates the nares .
an intestinal villus in the duodenum .
an intestinal villus in the jejunum .
an intestinal villus in the ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a ileum .
an epithelium that is part of a duodenum .
an epithelium that is part of a breast .
epithelium pertaining to the trachea and bronchi .
an epithelium that is part of a buccal mucosa .
a ridge of epidermal cells that will form the mammary placodes .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a sacral vertebra .
a vertebral foramen that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a sacral vertebra .
a neural arch that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
intertarsal articulations are the joints of the tarsus .
a prezygapophysis that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
a prezygapophysis that is part of a sacral vertebra .
a prezygapophysis that is part of a cervical vertebra .
a prezygapophysis that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
an postzygapophysis that is part of a lumbar vertebra .
an postzygapophysis that is part of a cervical vertebra .
an postzygapophysis that is part of a thoracic vertebra .
any muscle organ that is part of an nose .
the infrahyoid muscles are a group of four pairs of muscles in the anterior part of the neck .
the piriformis is a muscle in the gluteal region that originates from the anterior  ( front )  part of the sacrum ,  the part of the spine in the gluteal region ,  and from the superior margin of the greater sciatic notch  ( as well as the sacroiliac joint capsule and the sacrotuberous ligament )  .
a muscle in the region above the hyoid bone in the neck .
the posterior cricoarytenoid muscles are extremely small ,  paired muscles that extend from the posterior cricoid cartilage to the arytenoid cartilages in the larynx .
the lateral cricoarytenoid  ( also anterior cricoarytenoid )  muscles extend from the lateral cricoid cartilage to the ipsilateral arytenoid cartilage .
the levator veli palatini is the elevator muscle of the velum palatinum in the human body .
the procerus is a small pyramidal slip of muscle deep to the superior orbital nerve ,  artery and vein .
facial muscle attached to the modiolus ,  corner  ( angle )  of the mouth ,  and zygomatic bone .
facial muscle attached to the modiolus ,  corner  ( angle )  of the mouth ,  and zygomatic bone .
the levator anguli oris  ( caninus )  is a facial muscle of the mouth arising from the canine fossa ,  immediately below the infraorbital foramen .
a muscle of facial expression ,  innervated by the facial nerve ,  attached to the skin of the lower lip and inferior to the lower lip  ( in humans this region is called the chin or mental region )  ,  the orbicularis oris muscle ,  and the mandible in the symphyseal region .
the depressor anguli oris  ( triangularis )  arises from the oblique line of the mandible ,  whence its fibers converge ,  to be inserted ,  by a narrow fasciculus ,  into the angle of the mouth .
facial muscle that attaches to the fascia of the masseter muscle and the facia of the skin in the region of the corner  ( angle )  of the mouth .
a muscle tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a tibia .
a proximal epiphysis that is part of a fibula .
musculature that is derived from the hypaxial myotome region ,  trunk muscles that lie ventral to the horizontal septum of the vertebrae .
musculature that is derived from the epaxial myotome region ,  ventral to the horizontal septum of the vertebrae .
an embryonic structure that is derived from the inner cell mass and lies above the hypoblast and gives rise to the three primary germ layers
the dorsal venous arch of the foot is a superficial vein that connects the small saphenous vein and the great saphenous vein .
a limb segment that is part of a hindlimb .
a limb segment that is part of a forelimb .
the infratentorial compartment that contains the cerebellum and brain stem .
any of the three large depressions in the posterior ,  middle ,  and anterior aspects of the floor of the cranial cavity
a zone of skin that is part of a cheek .
the gingival sulcus is an area of potential space between a tooth and the surrounding gingival tissue and is lined by sulcular epithelium .
a branch of that maxillary nerve that innervates the mucous membrane of the hard palate .
an external organ of a male organism that is specialized to deliver sperm during copulation .
a transient embryonic complex that comprises the pharyngeal arches ,  bulges of tissues of mesoderm and neural crest derivation through which pass nerves and pharyngeal arch arteries .
a head that is part of a embryo .
an endoderm that is part of a thymus primordium .
a brain that develops_from a neural tube .
any duct branching of of the main epididymis duct .
a nerve arising from the second and third cervical nerves from the cervical plexus and innervating the skin over the parotid gland ,  the skin of part of the ear ,  the adjacent portion of the scalp ,  cheek ,  and angle of the jaw .
an out - pocket of thickened ventral foregut epithelium adjacent to the developing heart .
a ligament that supports a body part ,  especially an organ .
the cranial atrophic portion of the urogenital ridge attached to the cranial pole of the intraabdominal embryonic testis
the fetal ligament attached to the inferior end of the epididymis and testis and ,  at its other end ,  to the bottom of the scrotum ;  it is present during ,  and is thought to guide ,  the descent of the testis into the scrotum and then atrophies .
a gubernaculum that is part of a female reproductive system .
a ligament that does not connect two skeletal elements .
dense regular connective tissue connecting two or more adjacent skeletal elements [ vsao , modified ]  .
the part of a molar tooth that is implanted in the gum ;  mandibular and maxillary molars usually have two and three roots ,  respectively .
the smooth muscle layer of the stomach wall that functions to churn and mix food and gastric secretions as well as to move food along the digestive tract to the intestines
the short narrow part of the stomach extending from the pyloric antrum to the pyloric sphincter
the gastric glands in the pyloric region of the stomach ;  the pyloric glands secrete mucin ,  which coats the stomach and protects it ,  and hormones such as gastrin and enkephalin [ mp ]  .
the network of intersecting plates and spicules in cancellous bone which form a meshwork of intercommunicating spaces filled with blood vessels and marrow ;  in mature bone ,  the trabeculae are aligned in parallel with the lines of major compressive or tensile force
any skeletal muscle organ in the hypodermis  /  superficial fascia
the nerve fiber tracts that span the midline of the spinal cord
a putamen that is part of a left cerebral hemisphere .
a putamen that is part of a right cerebral hemisphere .
the part of the cardiovascular system consisting of all pulmonary arteries and all pulmonary veins .
the hemorrhoidal plexus  ( or rectal venous plexus )  surrounds the rectum ,  and communicates in front with the vesical venous plexus in the male ,  and the uterovaginal plexus in the female .
subdivision of endoskeleton derived from pharyngeal arches
a pharyngeal arch that is posterior to the hyoid arch .
skeletal element that forms superficially in the organism ,  usually in association with the ectoderm [ vsao ]  .
bone element that is adjacent to the notochord .
a parenchyma that is part of a lung .
a bone that is part of a forelimb region .
a sac containing the developing tooth and its odontogenic organ .
a dense regular connective tissue that that connects muscles together [ wp ,  modified ]  .
the functional tissue of the kidney ,  consisting of the nephrons .
one of the racemose glands in the walls of the esophagus that in humans are small and serve principally to lubricate the food but in some birds secrete a milky fluid on which the young are fed .
four accumulations of gray substance embedded in the white substance of the cerebellum ,  comprising the nucleus dentatus ,  nucleus emboliformis ,  nucleus globosus ,  and nucleus fastigii .
system pertaining to blood vessels in the brain .
the membrane separating the fetal from the maternal blood in the placenta .
any portion of tissue that surrounds a urethra .
a zone of skin that is part of a lower back .
a zone of skin that is part of a dorsal thoracic segment of trunk .
an artery that supplies blood to the urinary bladder .
vein that drains left lung and returns blood to the heart .
vein that drains right lung and returns blood to the heart .
a germinal center that is located in a lymph node
the prostatic veins form a well - marked prostatic plexus which lies partly in the fascial sheath of the prostate and partly between the sheath and the prostatic capsule .
an organism containing a developing embryo ,  fetus ,  or unborn offspring within the body .
the uterus in pregnancy
a mature thymus that is entirely part of the cervical region .
a mature thymus that is entirely part of thoracic region .
a gonad prior to differentiating into a definitive testis or ovary .
the adenohypophyseal placode forms the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland and gives rise to the endocrine secretory cells of the pituitary
rostralmost epibranchial placode .associated with 1st branchial cleft .
epibranchial placode between geniculate and nodose .
caudalmost epibranchial placode .associated with 3rd branchial cleft .
cranial ganglion which develops from an epibranchial placode .
endocardium that is part of the right atrium .
one of a group of three muscles fibularis  ( peronus )  longus ,  brevis ,  and tertius originating on the fibula and inserting on the metatarsals
a fold of tissue which extends into the peritoneal cavity of the developing embryo and participates in the separation of the pleural and peritoneal cavities .
a posterior cardinal vein that is in_the_right_side_of a multicellular organism .
a vein that is part of a craniocervical region .
sum total of mesenchyme in the embryo .
a sphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a sphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
any suture between cranial and / or facial bones .
any suture between facial bones .
the limb epidermis is the outer epithelial layer of the limb ,  it is a complex stratified squamous epithelium .
a nephric duct is a tube that drains a primitive kidney [ go ]  .
a suture joining the nasal bones .
mesenchyme that is part of a medial nasal prominence .
mesenchyme that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
an ectoderm that is part of a lateral nasal prominence .
a thin fold of ectoderm and endoderm that separates the pharyngeal pouches from the pharyngeal clefts in a developing embryo .
a pharyngeal membrane that separates the first pharyngeal cleft from the first pharyngeal pouch .
cartilaginous form of a vertebral centrum ,  a skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
the superior surface of the tongue divided by the sulcus terminalis into an anterior two - thirds ,  the presulcal part  ( pars presulcalis )  .
the axilla is the area directly under the joint where the forelimb connects to the shoulder .
mesenchyme that is part of a otic placode .
an ectoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
an endoderm that is part of a buccopharyngeal membrane .
mesenchyme that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a mesentery that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a portion of mesenchymal tissue associated with an individual pharyngeal arch .
an epithelium that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
anatomical region that surrounds the otic vesicle .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the frontonasal region of the head
mesenchyme that is part of a developing hindgut .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing trachea .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing middle ear .
an endoderm that is part of a anal region .
an epithelium that is part of a lateral lingual swelling .
mesenchyme that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a maxillary prominence .
a vascular plexus that is part of a left lung .
a vascular plexus that is part of a right lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a sublingual gland primordium .
mesenchyme that is part of a submandibular gland primordium .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic sinusoid that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an endoderm that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a segment of a digit containing the distal phalanx ,  and overlapping the distal interphalangeal joint [ cjm ]  .
a segment of the manual digit containing the distal phalanx
a segment of the pedal digit containing the distal phalanx .
a skeletal joint that connects a mesopodium bone and connects a proximal phalanx .
a nail ,  hoof or claw .
a nail that is part of a manual digit .
a submucosa that is part of a intestine .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit .
subdivision of vertebral column that corresponds to the trunk of the body ,  containing the trunk / presacral vertebrae .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future spinal cord .
a cerebrospinal fluid - filled space that runs longitudinally through the length of the entire spinal cord .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future medulla oblongata .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future metencephalon .
a sulcus limitans of neural tube that is part of a future myelencephalon .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch mandibular component .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing left lung .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing right lung .
a neural plate that develops_from a future forebrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive midbrain .
a neural plate that develops_from a presumptive hindbrain .
a presumptive structure that has the potential to develop into a midbrain .
bilateral mesenchymal mesoderm parallel and immediately adjacent to the neural tube / notochord ;  it generates a subset of extra - ocular ,  and other head ,  muscles .
a somite that is part of a tail .
the lumbar nerves are the five spinal nerves emerging from the lumbar vertebrae .
the five sacral nerves emerge from the sacrum .
chondrocranium chondrification center that that forms anterior body of sphenoid ,  containing the sella turcica and posterior body of sphenoid .
the body of the sphenoid bone ,  more or less cubical in shape ,  is hollowed out in its interior to form two large cavities ,  the sphenoidal air sinuses ,  which are separated from each other by a septum .
forms around the developing pituitary ,  and together with prechordal cartilages creates body of sphenoid bone
a sympathetic nerve trunk that is part of a lower back .
one of the two epithelia which make up the tympanic membrane  ( along with the fibrous layer ) 
a eyelid connective tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
a basement membrane that is part of a nephron tubule .
a basement membrane that is part of a bronchus .
a basement membrane that is part of a trachea .
a branch of the maxillary artery that is found in the gingiva ,  premolars ,  and molars .
an artery that supplies oxygenated blood to the ear .
nucleus located in the midbrain .
nucleus located within the hindbrain .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a telencephalon .
ventral mesentery is the part of the peritoneum closest to the navel .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a embryonic cloaca .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a rectum .
anatomical cluster consisting of adjacent teeth constituting a row .
a tooth row that is part of a skeleton of lower jaw .
a tooth row that is part of a skeleton of upper jaw .
a organ cavity that is part of a pharyngotympanic tube .
a epithelium that is part of a hypopharynx .
any endocardium that is part of the right ventricle of the heart .
any endocardium that is part of the left ventricle of the heart .
the primordial mass of tissue formed by the merging of the medial nasal prominences of the embryo ;  it contributes to the intermaxillary portion of the upper jaw ,  the prolabial portion of the upper lip ,  and the primary palate .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a stomodeum .
the channels in the lymph node medulla that separate the medullary cords and are crossed by a reticulum of cells and fibers and bounded by littoral cells ;  lymph flows through the medullary sinus from the cortical sinuses and into the efferent lymphatic vessels
the dense rope - like structures of lymphatic tissue located between the medullary sinuses in the medulla of a lymph node
the primordial embryonic connective tissue of the developing limbs ,  autopods and digits ,  consisting of mesenchymal cells supported in interlaminar jelly ,  that derive mostly from the mesoderm and contribute to limb connective tissue ,  bone and musculature in conjunction with myotome cells .
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing cardiac structures
the embryonic connective tissue made up of loosely aggregated mesenchymal cells ,  supported by interlaminar jelly ,  that gives rise to the developing pancreas
a ganglion that is part of a abdominal segment of trunk .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a proximal phalanx to either a medial or distal phalanx .
an inter - phalangeal joint that connects a distal phalanx to either a medial or proximal phalanx .
a renal tubule is a tube that filters ,  re - absorbs and secretes substances to rid an organism of waste and to play a role in fluid homeostasis .
a serous sac that has the pleura and the pleural cavity as parts .
the many - lobed berry cluster of cells that is the terminous of a gland where the secretion is produced is acinar in form .
a solid cord of prostate epithelium .
an anatomical space that surrounded_by a primitive urogenital sinus .
mesenchyme that surrounds primitive urogenital sinus .
an epithelium that is part of a embryonic cloaca .
a specific region of the urogenital sinus epithelium into the area in which the prostate gland will develop .
branch or outpocketing of the digestive tract .
a thin layer of connective tissue that lines the surface of the bony tissue that forms the medullary cavity of long bones
a division of the stomach .
outer portion of the renal cortex .
intermediate segment of the autopod ,  between the mesopodial region and and acropodial region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a mesopodium .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of endochondral elements distal to the zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the posterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
subdivision of skeleton that consists of the endochondral elements distal to the anterior limb / fin zeugopodial skeletal elements which constitute the proximal region of the anterior autopod skeleton [ phenoscape:ad ]  .
a renal ,  cortical lobule ,  consisting of the ascending or descending limbs of the loop of henle or of the collecting tubules ;  medullary rays are regions where parallel arrays of straight tubules travel perpendicular to the capsule and extend from the cortex to the medulla .
an artery that supplies a renal lobe .
the interlobar veins are veins of the renal circulation which drain the renal lobes .
a specific region of the lateral mesoderm that will form the majority of the mesodermal component of the right ventricle ,  arterial pole  ( outflow tract )  and venous pole  ( inflow tract )  .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing face .
a portion of an organ ,  such as the liver ,  lung ,  breast ,  or brain .
the portion of a kidney consisting of a renal medullary pyramid and the renal cortex above it [ mp ]  .
the portion of a renal lobe consisting of nephrons grouped around a single medullary ray and draining into a single collecting duct ;  human kidneys have multilobular ,  multipapillary architecture while mice and rats have unilobular ,  unipapillary kidneys
an anatomical wall that is part of a ureter .
the region demarcating the renal medulla from the surrounding cortex ;  end - stage renal failure may be associated with loss of the normal corticomedullary boundary
the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the epithelium of the ureter
a multicellular organism that existence_starts_with a post - embryonic stage .
cranial ectodermal placode with potential to develop into a component of the nervous system ,  such as nerves or ganglia .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urinary bladder .
an epithelium that is part of a pancreatic duct .
the junction between the ureter and the renal pelvis of the kidney
the valve - like structure found at the site of entry of the ureter into the urinary bladder ,  normally displays an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux of urine up the ureters and the kidney
an articular prominence of a bone ,  typically present in pairs ,  resembling a pair of knuckles .
a condyle that is part of a distal epiphysis of femur .
the medial condyle is one of the two projections on the lower extremity of femur .
the distal end of the humerus ,  including the trochlea ,  capitulum and the olecranon ,  coronoid and radial fossae
one of the lateral or medial condyles of the tibia .
an anatomical structure that has more than one cell as a part .
a small cluster of cells of various types which form a discrete structure ,  largely delimited by a morphological boundary and whose components work together to make the whole structure capable of a specific function .
a regional part of brain consisting of multiple brain regions that are not related through a simple volummetric part of hierarchy ,  e .g . ,  basal ganglia [ nif ]  .
subcortical masses of gray matter in the forebrain and midbrain that are richly interconnected and so viewed as a functional system .
the dorsal portion of the embryonic first endodermal pharyngeal pouch ;  it develops into the middle ear cavity .
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 6 .
the portion of the tongue in front of the terminal sulcus .
the posterior tongue ,  or pharyngeal part ,  is the part of the tongue behind the terminal sulcus .
an organ of the digestive tract that is capable of retaining and storing food
mesenchyme that is part of a pharyngeal arch 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a 1st arch maxillary component .
the sum total of mesenchymal tissue in the pharyngeal arch region .
gland of the epithelium lining the oral cavity .
a mucosa that is part of a dorsum of tongue .
a malleus endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a stapes endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a compound organ that has the potential to develop into a tongue .
on the lateral wall of the nasal part of the pharynx is the pharyngeal opening of auditory tube  ( pharyngeal ostium )  ,  somewhat triangular in shape ,  and bounded behind by a firm prominence ,  the torus or cushion ,  caused by the medial end of the cartilage of the tube which elevates the mucous membrane .
an anatomical space with at least one opening to another space or the exterior .
a portion of the external acoustic meatus epithelium which makes up the outer  ( cuticular )  layer of the tympanic membrane
the intermediate fibrous layer of the tympanic membrane .
organ system subdivision that consists primarily of chromaffin cells and their supporting structures .
one of the 5 distinct and partially overlapping functional domains of the premigratory neural crest .
tissue cavity consisting of intercommunicating trabecular spaces in the cancellous bone .
an epithelium consisting of cuboidal epithelial cells .
an extrahepatic bile duct that has the potential to develop into a common hepatic duct .
mesenchyme that has the potential to develop into a dermis .
a structure that will develop into a diaphragm .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a falx cerebri .
a multi - tissue structure that has the potential to develop into a meninx of hindbrain .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a metencephalon .
a developing anatomical structure that has the potential to develop into a myelencephalon .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a facial nucleus .
a gray matter that has the potential to develop into a superior salivatory nucleus .
a femur endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the distal elements of the developing limb of vertebrates that will give rise to the autopod  ( e .g .
any portion of cardiac muscle tissue that is part of the conducting system of heart or the purkinje fibers .
any of the organized aggregations of cells that function as secretory or excretory organs and that release hormones in response to neural stimuli
a circumventricular organ that is capable of secreting substances into the cerebrospinal fluid .
a circumventricular organ that is capable of monitoring the levels of substances to the cerebrospinal fluid .
a sex cord that is part of a indifferent gonad .
a bodily secretion that is produced by a seminal vesicle .
any gland ,  other than the gonad ,  associated with the genital tract ,  such as the ampulla of the ductus deferens and the bulbourethral ,  prostate and vesicular glands of the male .
a mucous secretion that is produced by glands in the epidermis .
unites the mastoid process of the temporal with the region of the mastoid angle of the parietal [ wp:squamosal_suture ]  .
the sphenofrontal suture is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the frontal bone .
the sphenoparietal suture is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the parietal bone .
the sphenozygomatic suture is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the zygomatic bone .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a lymphatic vessel .
an anatomical cavity that surrounded_by a blood vessel .
the distal end of the tail
the eyebrow is an area of thick ,  delicate hairs above the eye that follows the shape of the lower margin of the brow ridges .
an anatomical cluster that composed_primarily_of a strand of hair .
a collection of hairs that is part of a face .
a collection of hair on face that is part of a eyelash .
a strand of hair that is part of a face .
the portion of the left ventricular outflow tract delineated by the sinotubular ridge superiorly and the bases of the valve leaflets inferiorly ;  it comprises the aortic sinuses ,  the aortic valve leaflets ,  the commissures ,  and the interleaflet triangles
a trabecula that is part of a liver
any of the numerous small mucous - secreting glands located in the wall of the penile urethra
an urethral gland that is part of a female urethra .
a roughly circular bulge in a surface .
the paired arterial structures of the embryo that supplies each developing somite via efferent segmental arteries ;  the dorsal aortae articulate with the umbilical arteries ,  which return mixed blood to the villi of the chorion for reoxygenation
one of the laterally paired arteries that supply the gonads .
a portal system that begins in capillaries in the wall of the digestive tract and and runs as the hepatic portal vein to the liver .
an anatomical boundary that corresponds to some physical discontinuity .
a vasculature that is part of a post - anal tail .
apparatus located between the lungs and the buccal cavity .
paired primordial elevations ,  on either side of the embryonic larynx ,  within which the arytenoid cartilages are formed
a pupil that is part of a left eye .
a pupil that is part of a right eye .
a nuclear complex which in mammals consists of four parts ,  the hypothalamus ,  epithalamus ,  ventral thalamus ,  and dorsal thalamus [ wp , modified ]  .
multi - tissue structure that is part of the heart tube and will become the cardiac atrium .
the core globe - shaped component of the camera - type eye .
the connective tissue that supports the lobules and follicles of the thyroid gland .
the palatopharyngeus or palatopharyngeal or pharyngopalatinus muscle is a long ,  fleshy fasciculus ,  narrower in the middle than at either end ,  forming ,  with the mucous membrane covering its surface ,  the palatopharyngeal arch .
the musculus uvulae  ( azygos uvulae )  is a muscle of the soft palate .
an exocrine gland whose secretions are excreted via exocytosis from secretory cells into an epithelial - walled duct or ducts and thence onto a bodily surface or into the lumen ;  the gland releases its product and no part of the gland is lost or damaged .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a rhombencephalon neural crest .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
one of the three blood vessels ,  usually one large umbilical vein and two small umbilical arteries ,  buried within wharton's jelly ,  that transport blood to and from the placenta ,  where exchange between the mother and fetus takes place ;  the umbilical vein carries oxygenated ,  nutrient - rich blood from the placenta to the fetus ,  and the umbilical arteries carry deoxygenated ,  nutrient - depleted blood from the fetus to the placenta .
the most posterior portion of the inferior frontal gyrus of the frontal lobe in the brain .
a group of bones comprised of hyoid body and two pairs of cornua  ( i .e .
a zone of bone organ that is part of a hyoid bone .
any anatomical space that is part of a vertebral column .
a minute orifice on the summit of the papillae lacrimales ,  which is the commencement point of the lacrimal canaliculi .
portion of tissue that is dorsolateral to the floor plate and part of the midbrain .
portion of neural tube that gives rise to the midbrain .
an endothelium that is part of a sclera .
a stroma that is part of a sclera .
mesenchyme surrounding the developing optic cup which develops into the sclera .
an epithelium that is part of a extraembryonic structure .
stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesizes but does not accumulate keratin .
one of the three major regions of the conjunctiva .
the conjunctiva covering the anterior surface of the sclera and the surface epithelium of the cornea .
an ossified element investing the upper eyelid .
developing anatomical structure that develops into the eyeball and associated structures .
an anatomical structure that develops from the neural crest .
an anatomical structure that has some part that develops from the neural crest .
a skeletal element that is part of a orbital region .
skeletal subdivision of the head including skull  ( cranium plus mandible )  ,  pharyngeal and / or hyoid apparatus .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a limb / fin bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing eyelid .
an epithelium that is part of a handplate .
mesenchyme that is part of a extraembryonic membrane .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a maxillary process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a mandibular process mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch maxillary mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mandibular mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 1st arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 2nd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 3rd arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 4th arch mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a 6th arch mesenchyme .
a otic capsule endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the first step in ossification of the cartilage is that the cartilage cells ,  at the point where ossification is commencing and which is termed a ossification center ,  enlarge and arrange themselves in rows .
an arch - shaped structure of the vertebra that extends dorsally  ( neural arch )  or ventrally  ( hemal arch )  from the vertebral centrum
mesenchyme that develops_from a neural crest and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that develops_from a head mesenchyme from mesoderm and is part of a entire pharyngeal arch associated mesenchyme .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes indirect development and includes elements that develop as a replacement or substitution of other elements or tissues .
a skeletal element that has the potential to participate in endochondral ossification ,  and may participate in intramembranous ossification .
skeletal subdivision that undergoes direct development and includes elements that either develop in association with the basement membrane of the ectoderm or are homologous with such elements ;  includes dermatocranium ,  components of the appendicular skeleton ,  teeth and tooth - like elements of the oropharynx ,  and integumentary elements .
skeletal tissue that is part of the exoskeleton and derived from an odontogenic papilla .
a vasculature that is part of a conjunctiva .
a vein that is part of a conjunctiva .
the smallest anatomical unit of the lung ,  measuring 0 .50 to 2 .00 cm in diameter .
epithelium composed of cells that develops from the ectoderm [ fma , modified ]  .
mesenchyme that develops_from a somatopleure .
mesenchyme that develops_from a splanchnopleure .
the superior tarsal muscle is a smooth muscle adjoining the levator palpebrae superioris muscle that helps to raise the upper eyelid .
the neurons that innervate the esophagus ,  stomach ,  small and large bowel
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a hypopharynx .
the segment of the rib that connects to a vertebra [ mp ]  .
an organ cavity that is part of a urethra .
an unstimulated network of follicular dendritic cells and small resting b cells in the lymph node cortex .
one of the branches of the splenic artery [ mp ] 
one of the veins that feed the splenic vein
any layer of the epidermis that is superior to the stratum basale
the angular artery is the terminal part of the facial artery ;  it ascends to the medial angle of the eye's orbit ,  imbedded in the fibers of the angular head of the quadratus labii superioris ,  and accompanied by the angular vein .
the integrated unit  ( of the eye )  that consists of the conjunctiva ,  the corneal surface ,  and the ocular mucosal adnexa including the lid margins and the meibomian gland openings ,  the lacrimal glands and the lacrimal drainage system ,  all which are critical to maintain ocular surface integrity and provide protection from external antigens and pathogenic microorganisms .
encapsulated adipose tissue found on the dorsal side of the peritoneum
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the epididymis
an orifice that is part of a lower urinary tract .
a part of the secondary follicle in which naive b cells reside along with some helper t cells ,  macrophages and follicular dendritic cells ;  these are displaced by the expanding germinal centre and form a 'mantle' around it
the area of the  ( spleen )  secondary b follicle that surrounds the germinal center and harbors the small recirculating b lymphocytes
a lymphoid follicle containing naive b cells
a primary nodular lymphoid tissue that is part of a tonsil .
a naris that is located inside the nasal cavity and connects to the pharynx .
the ciliary processes are formed by the inward folding of the various layers of the choroid ,  i .e .
a bone that is shaped as a broad flat plate and composed of two thin layers of compact tissue enclosing between them a variable quantity of cancellous tissue ,  which is the location of red bone marrow .
one of: zygomaticus major ,  zygomaticus minor
a simple columnar epithelium that looks stratified but is not ,  because its cells are arranged with their nuclei at different levels .
epithelium composed of a single layer of cells ,  appearing as layered because the column - shaped cells vary in height so the nuclei are at different levels .
skeletal element that forms as a replacement or substitution of another element or tissue .
a vessel of the microcirculature ,  lying between the arterioles and venules ;  includes capillaries  ( blood and lymphatic )  ,  metarterioles and arteriovenous anastomoses .
an organ cavity that surrounded_by a bone .
an epithelial tube that is fated to become a nephron .
the metanephric cortex is the outer region of the metanephros [ go ]  .
anatomical cluster which give rise to mature mesonephric nephrons .
a primitive nephron that is part of a metanephros .
cluster of cells comprising a portion of tissue which gives rise to new mesonephric nephrons .
an appendage segment that is part of a limb / fin .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tarsal bone .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the autopodium  -  i .e .
the metacarpus is the intermediate part of the manus skeleton that is located between the phalanges  ( bones of the fingers )  distally and the carpus which forms the connection to the forearm .
limb segment that consists of the long bones of the pes .
subdivision of skeleton that corresponds to metapodium region ,  between acropodial skeleton and mesopdoial skeleton .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 2 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 3 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 4 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 2 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 3 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 4 mesenchyme .
a pedal digit metatarsal cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing pedal digit 1 .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing manual digit 1 .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 2 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 3 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 4 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 2 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 3 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 4 mesenchyme .
a manual digit metacarpus cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 2 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 3 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 4 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 2 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 3 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 4 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a pre - cartilage condensation that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 1 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 2 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 3 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 4 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit 5 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 1 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 2 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 3 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 4 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit 5 mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a pedal digit mesenchyme .
a cartilage element that is part of a manual digit mesenchyme .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the manual autopodium  -  i .e .
an epithelium that is part of a manual digit 1 .
an epithelium that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
mesenchyme of the carpal region that contributes to the tarsal skeleton .
the subdivision of the skeleton that consists of all the skeletal elements at the distalmost end of the pedal autopodium  -  i .e .
mesenchyme of the digit region .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an forelimb zeugopod region .
an organism subdivision that includes both an appendage and its associated girdle region .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pectoral appendicular skeleton and the pectoral girdle .
appendage girdle complex that when present ,  encompasses the pelvic appendicular skeleton and the pelvic girdle .
skeletal subdivision that is a segment of the limb skeleton .
a iliac endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a pubic endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the subdivision of the skeleton of either the pectoral or pelvic girdle .
subdivision of skeleton consisting of all skeletal elements in an hindlimb zeugopod region .
there are three cuneiform bones in the human foot: the medial cuneiform the intermediate cuneiform also known as the middle the lateral cuneiform .
a orbitosphenoid endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 4 .
endochondral tarsal bone articulating with centralia and metatarsal 5 .
a bone that is part of an appendage girdle complex  ( i .e .
a bone that is part of a pectoral complex .
a bone that is part of a pelvic complex .
the collection of all meningeal layers that line a central nervous system .
a sacral vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a sacral vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
the extension of the ilium above the level of the acetabulum .
the body of ilium enters into the formation of the acetabulum ,  of which it forms rather less than two - fifths .
a lymphoid follicle that is part of a lymph node .
a secondary follicle that is located in a lymph node
a collection of activated b cells at the center of a secondary follicle ,  formed after b cells become activated and migrate to the center .
the part of the secondary follicle that surrounds the germinal center .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along an axis perpedicular to the main body anterior - posterior axis .
the supraglenoid tubercle is a region of the scapula to which the long head of the biceps brachii muscle attaches .
a calcaneum endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a calcaneum endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a clavicle .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a clavicle .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a radius bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a ulna .
a radius - ulna endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibia .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a tibia .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a fibula .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a fibula .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of cartilage tissue .
a skeletal element that is part of a limb and composed of pre - cartilage tissue .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a forelimb bone .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a hindlimb bone .
a small pointed eminence of the external ear ,  situated in front of the concha ,  and projecting backward over the meatus .
muscles of the pelvic girdle ,  hindlimb or pelvic fin .
a muscle of a pectoral girdle ,  pectoral fin or anterior limb .
am unpaired external naris that lies in the midline of the head .
hermaphroditic organism that produces both male and female gametes at the same time .
a primordium that develops into a clavicle bone .
skeletal element that is often isolated ,  small ,  and variable in composition .
anatomical cluster consisting of the skeletal elements  ( i .e .
skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
cricoarytenoid muscles are muscles that connect the cricoid cartilage and arytenoid cartilage .
the orbicularis oris is a superficial facial muscle with fibers that encircle the opening of the oral cavity that attaches to the maxilla ,  mandible ,  skin and modiolus ,  and that participates in oral / pharyngeal behaviors ,  and is innervated by the facial nerve  ( cn vii )  .
either of the two muscles that comprise the digastric group  ( anterior or posterior )  .
the anterior digastric is a pharyngeal arch i muscle that participates in oral / pharygeal behaviors and is innervated by the nerve to mylohyoid  ( a branch of the third division of the trigeminal nerve )  ,  is attached to the mandible and to the hyoid apparatus ,  and it is superficial to mylohyoid muscle .
the occipitofrontalis or epicranius is a muscle which covers parts of the skull .
a muscle organ that attaches_to a clavicle and attaches_to a occipital bone .
a muscle organ that has_muscle_insertion a occipital bone and has_muscle_origin a sternum .
a belly of the occipitofrontalis muscle that is near the frontal bone
the nasalis  ( compressor naris )  is a sphincter - like muscle of the nose whose function is to compress the nasal cartilage .
any muscle organ that is part of either the head or the neck .
a cartilage element that is part of a splanchnocranium .
the extrinsic extensor muscles of the hand are located in the back of the forearm and have long tendons connecting them to bones in the hand ,  where they exert their action .
the dorsal portion of the first pharyngeal arch ,  comprising the upper jaw [ zfin , vhog ]  .
a ligament that is part of a knee joint .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a right pelvic girdle region .
a skeleton of pelvic girdle that is part of a left pelvic girdle region .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the right side of a multicellular organism .
a pelvic girdle region that is in the left side of a multicellular organism .
the cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the pre - cartilaginous form of a vertebral element ,  a skeletal element that forms around the notochord and is part of the vertebral column .
the lacrimal nerve is the smallest of the three branches of the ophthalmic division of the trigeminal nerve .
an epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone of digit 5 .
a synovial joint that is part of a pelvic girdle region .
a synovial joint that is part of a pectoral girdle region .
the humeroulnar joint ,  is part of the elbow - joint or the olecron joint ,  between the ulna and humerus bones is the simple hinge - joint ,  which allows for movements of flexion ,  extension and circumduction .
a hinge joint between the head of the radius and the capitulum of the humerus .
a joint that connects the tibia and the fibula .
the tarsometatarsal articulations are arthrodial joints in the pes .
the carpometacarpal joints  ( cmc )  are joints in the wrist that articulates the distal row of carpal bones and the proximal bases of the metacarpal bones .
a skeletal joint that connects a laryngeal cartilage .
the cricoarytenoid articulation  ( or joint )  is a joint connecting the cricoid cartilage and the thyroid cartilage .
the cricoarytenoid articulation  ( or joint )  is a joint connecting the cricoid cartilage and the arytenoid cartilage .
a skeletal joint that connects two adjacent metacarpals [ fma , modified ]  .
a skeletal joint that connects two carpal bones .
a joint that connects two adjacent metatarsals
joint in which the articulating bones or cartilages are connected by ligaments or fibrocartilage without an intervening synovial cavity .
a cartilage element that lies between two successive vertebral centra .
ligament that joins successive centra .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the axial skeleton plus associated joints .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the postcranial axial skeleton plus associated joints .
any synovial joint that is part of a  ( free )  limb .
ossicle that is part of the appendicular skeleton .
ossicle that is part of the axial skeleton .
subdivision of urinary system which consists of the kidney and the ureters .
a muscle capable of adduction .
gland of the lamina epithelialis mucosae which perforate the lamina muscularis ,  with their adenomeres located in the submucosal connective tissue .
a muscle whose action is to depress the lower jaw .
subdivision of skull that consists of the facial bones .
the skull can be divided into two: the neurocranium and the facial skeleton
a suture joining a nasal bone to another bone .
a bone that is part of a neurocranium  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
synovial joint that articulates bones of upper and lower jaw .
a sphincter muscle that is part of the gastrointestinal system
a lamina propria that is part of a large intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a parathyroid gland .
a muscle layer that is part of a large intestine .
the sacrococcygeal symphysis  ( sacrococcygeal articulation ,  articulation of the sacrum and coccyx )  is an amphiarthrodial joint ,  formed between the oval surface at the apex of the sacrum ,  and the base of the coccyx .
a muscle layer that is part of a small intestine .
an epithelium that is part of a urachus .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing urachus .
a multi cell part structure that is part of a central nervous system .
a subdivision of an anatomical system .
the mastoid process is a conical prominence projecting from the undersurface of the mastoid portion of the temporal bone .
synovial sac which surrounds parts of one or more tendons .
the most anterior region of the braincase .
subdivision of the skeletal system which consists of the appendicular skeleton plus associated joints .
a bone that is part of a autopod region .
a carpometacarpal joint that connects to metacarpal 1 .
the part of the trunk that is in the dorsum [ cjm ]  .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 1 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 2 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 3 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 4 .
a nail that is part of a manual digit 5 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 1 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 2 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 3 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 4 .
a nail that is part of a pedal digit 5 .
the pharyngeal aponeurosis  ( or pharyngobasilar fascia ,  or fibrous coat )  ,  is situated between the mucous and muscular layers .
the submucous layer of the wall of the uterine tube .
a partion of white matter that is part of a telencephalon .
a portion of gray matter that is part of a telencephalon .
the deep temporalis muscle is a separable part of the temporalis muscle that that attaches to the bony wall of the braincase and is deep to the superficial temporalis .
the articular capsule  ( capsular ligament )  is a thin ,  loose envelope ,  attached above to the circumference of the mandibular fossa and the articular tubercle immediately in front ;  below ,  to the neck of the condyle of the mandible .
a muscular branch of the mandibular nerve passing to the medial surface of the masseter muscle ,  which it innervates .
a nerve that innervates the mylohyoid muscle and the anterior belly of the digastric muscle .
a anatomical surface that is part of a mandible .
the pterygomandibular raphe  ( pterygomandibular ligament )  is a tendinous band of the buccopharyngeal fascia ,  attached by one extremity to the hamulus of the medial pterygoid plate ,  and by the other to the posterior end of the mylohyoid line of the mandible .
a blood vasculature that is part of a head .
a lymph vasculature that is part of a head .
the cleidomastoideus is a thick ,  strap - like muscle that together with the cleidocervicalis forms the proximal part of the brachiocephalicus .
this muscle makes up the distal segment of the brachiocephalicus .
the brachiocephalicus is a long and flat ,  complex of muscles that extends from the lower half of the humeral shaft to the head and neck .
a transverse process of vertebra that is part of a vertebral bone 1 .
the sternocephalicus is a flat muscle and its caudal border is adjacent to the ventral border of the brachiocephalicus .
a retractable double - layered fold of skin and mucous membrane that covers the glans penis or clitoris .
a zone of skin that is part of a prepuce of clitoris .
the external sphincter muscle of urethra  ( or sphincter urethrae membranaceae )  surrounds the whole length of the membranous portion of the urethra ,  and is enclosed in the fasci of the urogenital diaphragm .
the external sphincter muscle of female urethra is a muscle which controls urination .
a chiasma of facial muscles held together by fibrous tissue ,  located lateral and slightly superior to each angle of the mouth .
the pudendal nerve is a somatic nerve in the pelvic region that innervates the external genitalia of both sexes ,  as well as sphincters for the bladder and the rectum .
a nerve arising from the pudendal nerve that supplies the perineum .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a esophagus .
a tube lumen that is part of a mesonephric duct .
the styloid process of the ulna projects from the medial and back part of the bone ;  it descends a little lower than the head ,  and its rounded end affords attachment to the ulnar collateral ligament of the wrist [ wp , unvetted ]  .
the superior half of the orbital rim ,  which constitutes the curved superior border of the orbital opening ,  formed by the frontal bone .
the collection of all skeletal elements in an individual limb or fin .
proximal element of a free limb skeleton consisting of the femur and humerus in the forelimb stylopodium and hindlimb stylopodium respectively [ vsao ,  modified ]  .
section of the forelimb skeleton located between the stylopodium and the autopodium .
anatomical structure that is an aggregation of similar cells from which cartilages and bones form ,  and from which chondrogenesis and osteogenesis are initiated during repair and / or regeneration .
odontogenic tissue that is collagen - rich and characteristic of vertebrate teeth and tooth - like structures  ( e .g . ,  odontodes )  deposited by preodontoblasts and odontoblasts that are typically excluded from the matrix .
odontogenic tissue that is avascular non - mineralized matrix that is deposited by preameloblast and ameloblasts that are excluded from the matrix .
cartilage tissue that is not mineralized .
a commissure that is part of a diencephalon .
an axon tract that is part of a diencephalon .
a tooth that is attached to a maxilla [ tao , modified ]  .
tooth that is attached to a dentary / mandible [ tao , modified ]  .
a subdivision of the head that corresponds to the jaw skeleton ,  containing both soft tissue ,  skeleton and teeth  ( when present )  .
any bone that is part of the upper jaw skeleton .
a gingiva that is part of a upper jaw region .
a gingiva that is part of a lower jaw region .
replacement bone that is bilaterally paired and  ( in teleosts )  articulates with the neurocranium dorsally and the opercle posteriorly [ tao , modified ]  .
cartilage form of the hyomandibular element .
the upper paired deep bone or cartilage of the hyoid region ,  sometimes taking part in jaw suspension and which supports the opercle .
an odontogenic papilla that is part of a molar tooth  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a oral epithelium .
limb extensor that runs from ilium to femur .
a major subdivision of an organism that divides an organism along its main body axis  ( typically anterio - posterior axis )  .
a vertebra in the trunk region .
a proximal tarsal bone that articulates with the fibula .
a tarsal bone that connected_to a hindlimb zeugopod skeleton .
a cardiovascular system that is part of a conceptus .
a cardiac valve leaflet that is part of a aortic valve .
a cardiac valve leaflet that is part of a pulmonary valve .
paired structures in the embryo that represent the final stage of development of the caudal end of the external genitals before sexual differentiation .
a genital swelling that is part of a female reproductive system .
a genital swelling that is part of a male reproductive organ .
anatomical projection that is composed of cartilage tissue .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of lower jaw .
an anatomical space that is part of a bone of upper jaw .
a cranial nerve nucleus that is associated with a vagus nerve .
a neural nucleus that is part of the spinal cord .
a nerve that is part of a head .
ectodermal placode that does not develop into a component of the nervous system .
an ectodermal placode that gives rise to any of the cutaneous appendages that protrude from the skin epidermis  ( heair ,  feathers ,  epidermal scales )  .
superficial fascia is found in the subcutis in most regions of the body ,  blending with the reticular layer of the dermis .
a tube lumen that is part of a atrioventricular canal .
an anatomical junction that divides and overlaps with and atrium and a ventricle in the heart .
connective tissue ,  which consists of a population of connective tissue cells ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains an irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
irregular connective tissue is an irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a dense irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
dense connective tissue is mainly composed of collagen type i .
irregular connective tissue ,  the intercellular matrix of which contains a sparse irregular network of collagen and elastic fiber bundles .
a sebaceous glands in the areola surrounding the nipple .
a duct that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a sebaceous gland .
an acinus that is part of a parotid gland .
an acinus that is part of a salivary gland .
an acinus that is part of a areolar gland .
an acinus that is part of a mammary gland .
an acinus that is part of a lacrimal gland .
an acinus that is part of a exocrine gland .
the internal auditory meatus  ( also internal acoustic meatus ,  internal auditory canal ,  and internal acoustic canal )  is a canal in the petrous bone of the temporal bone of the skull that carries nerves from inside the cranium towards the middle and inner ear compartments namely cranial nerve vii and cranial nerve viii .
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of aorta tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of pulmonary tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of bone tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of tendon tissue that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
the connective tissue bundles in the extracellular matrix of corneal stroma that are composed of collagen ,  and play a role in tissue strength and elasticity
a cranial suture that connects a nasal bone and connects a maxilla .
a skeletal ligament that is part of a sternoclavicular joint .
the lateral border that separates the dorsum from the inferior surface of the tongue on each side ,  the two borders meeting anteriorly at the apex . .
a muscle layer that is part of a wall of esophagus .
front  ( ventral )  portion of the vascular ,  pigmentary ,  or middle coat of the eye ,  including the ciliary body and the iris .
a organ cavity that is part of a vagina .
epimysium is a layer of connective tissue which ensheaths the entire muscle .
the thickened peripheral margin of the vitreous membrane of the cornea .
masses of developing blood cells attached to endothelium in the yolk sac
the the continuous basement membrane found within the membranous labyrinth of the cochlea ,  known to extend from the limbus ,  down to the inner sulcus ,  across the basilar membrane ,  up to the external sulcus to the spiral prominence and radiating into the spiral ligament ensheathing the root cell processes
nerve fibers which project from the central nervous system to autonomic ganglia .
a cholinergic axonal fiber projecting from the cns to a sympathetic ganglion
a cholinergic axonal fibers projecting from the cns to a parasympathetic ganglion
hair in the nose
an epidermal invagination that has as parts a hair follicle ,  a sebaceous gland ,  and arrector pili muscle
a region of the stomach that is lined with glandular epithelium .
a hepatic vein that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic vein that is part of a right lobe of liver .
an articular capsule that is part of the glenohumeral joint .
an articular capsule that is part of the hip joint .
the transverse tarsal joint is formed by the articulation of the calcaneus with the cuboid ,  and the articulation of the talus with the navicular .
the talocalcaneonavicular articulation is an arthrodial joint: the rounded head of the talus being received into the concavity formed by the posterior surface of the navicular ,  the anterior articular surface of the calcaneus ,  and the upper surface of the plantar calcaneonavicular ligament .
calcaneocuboid articulation  ( articulation of the calcaneus with the cuboid )  .
a skeletal joint that connects a radius bone and connects a carpal skeleton .
an ankle joint that passes between the proximal and distal tarsals .
a skeletal ligament that connects the fibula to the talus .
a skeletal ligament that connects the fibula to the calcaneus
a skeletal ligament that connects a tibia and connects a tarsal skeleton .
an epiphysis that is part of a phalanx of a pes  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pes .
an epiphysis that is part of a proximal phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a middle phalanx of manus .
an epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manus .
a joint that connects the bones of the crus to the proximal tarsal bones
the aggregate of the coelemic cavity lumen plus the membranes that line the lumen .
the cavity within a myotome
a tooth that is on the roof of the mouth .
any bone that is part of a palate .
a tooth that is attached to a palatine bone .
a subdivision of skeletal system that subdivision_of a hard palate .
bone that forms as a replacement of another structural tissue .
a skeletal joint that connects a tibia and connects a talus .
a cartilaginous condensation that has the potential to develop into a patella .
a pre - cartilage condensation that has the potential to develop into a patella .
an anatomical cavity that is part of a bronchus .
a salivary gland that is part of a cheek .
anatomical system that consists of the integumental system plus all mucosae and submucosae .
one of two elements that constitute the basal row of tarsals .
outermost point on an external nose or snout
endochondral bone located between the proximal and distal rows of carpals or tarsals and thus representing the central carpals or tarsals [ phenoscape ]  .
a segment of the autopod consisting of both acropodial region and metapodial region ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial region .
a digitopodium region that is part of a manus [ obol ]  .
a digitopodium region that is part of a pes [ obol ]  .
a subdivision of the autopod skeleton consisting of both acropodial skeleon and metapodial skeleton ,  but excluding the mesopodial / basopodial skeleton .
a subdivision of the manus skeleton consisting of both manual acropodial skeleton and metacarpal skeleton ,  but excluding the carpal skeleton .
a subdivision of the pes skeleton consisting of both pedal acropodial skeleton and metatarsal skeleton ,  but excluding the tarsal skeleton .
the buccal fat pad is one of several encapsulated fat masses in the cheek .
blood that remains in the placenta and in the attached umbilical cord after childbirth [ wp ]  .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a stomach .
a zone of skin that is part of a craniocervical region .
the veins that run parallel to the phrenic arteries which include the two superior and two inferior phrenic veins .
the intercostal veins are a group of veins which drain the area between the ribs .
a space in the rib cage between two successive ribs .
the intercostal lymph nodes  ( intercostal glands  )  occupy the posterior parts of the intercostal spaces ,  in relation to the intercostal vessels .
network of tubes that carries blood through the distensible musculomembranous organ that serves to collect and store urine excreted by the kidneys [ mp ] 
external opening or orifice of the urethra through which urine and seminal fluid  ( in males only )  leave the body ;  in males the meatus presents as a vertical slit normally positioned at the tip of glans penis ;  in females the meatus is located between the clitoris and the vagina in the vulvular vestibule of the female genitalia [ mp ]  .
a urethral meatus that is part of a male urethra [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the usually crescent - shaped opening of the urinary bladder into the urethra ,  placed at the anteroinferior angle  ( apex )  of the urinary bladder trigone
mucus - secreting glands in the mucosa of the uterine cervix
lining of the head of the uterus  ( cervix )  ;  contains large branched glands ;  does not undergo sloughing .
the part of the cervix uteri that protrudes into the vagina and is lined with stratified squamous epithelium .
a glandular epithelium that is part of a uterine cervix .
a epithelium that is part of a ectocervix .
the glandular epithelium that lines the endocervix .
region of cervical epithelium where columnar epithelium of endocervic and the stratified non - keratinising squamous epithelium of the ectocervic meet
an artery that originates from the abdominal aorta
an epithelium that consists of columnar epithelial cells .
epithelium that derives from the mesoderm .
the nasal glands are the seromucous glands in the respiratory region of the nasal mucous membrane .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the mammary gland
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the femur
a tarsal bone that is formed from the fusion of the central and 4th tarsal bones .
a tarsal bone that is formed from the fusion of the 2nd and 3rd tarsal bones .
a carpal bone that is formed from the fusion of the 2nd and 3rd distal carpal bones .
malleolus is the name for the bony prominence on each side of the ankle .
one of the pair of mesenchymal swellings  ( folds )  located on either side of the cloacal membrane during the indifferent stage of embryonic development ;  cranial to the cloacal membrane the folds unite to form the genital tubercle ;  caudally the folds are subdivided into urogenital folds anteriorly and anal folds posteriorly
a mucosa that is part of a urethra .
one of five swellings formed during the development of the face
the median slit located inferior and posterior to the external urethral orifice in the female ;  the exit for menstrual flow and birth and the entrance for the penis during sexual intercourse ;  the size and appearance of the vaginal orifice varies inversely with that of the hymen  ( g . membrane )  ,  a thin fold of mucous membrane that surrounds the vaginal orifice
the anterior ethmoidal artery ,  also anterior ethmoid artery is an artery of the head .
the posterior ethmoidal artery is an artery of the head .
an artery of the neck
the deep cervical artery  ( profunda cervicalis )  is an artery of the neck .
keratinized stratified squamous epithelium is a stratified squamous epithelium ,  the cells of which synthesize and accumulate keratin .
the lymphocytic cell population present in the mucosa of the nasopharyngeal duct of some animals .
a broad fold of peritoneum that extends from the side of the uterus to the wall of the pelvis .
any exocrine gland whose secretion consists of its own disintegrated secretory cells along with its secretory product ;  holocrine secretions are produced in the cytoplasm of the cell and released by the rupture of the plasma membrane ,  which destroys the cell and results in the secretion of the product into the lumen .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a urachus .
the segment of the autopod that is distal to the metapodial region and consists of the digits .
the segment of the manus that is distal to the metacarpal region and consists of the manual digits  ( fingers )  .
the segment of the pes that is distal to the metatarsal region and consists of the pedal digits  ( toes )  .
a bone that is part of a the digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the manual digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone that is part of a the pedal digitopodium skeleton  -  i .e .
a bone element that is part of a jaw region .
a muscle layer that is part of an intestine .
a nerve plexus that is part of a sympathetic nervous system .
a layer of tissue between the muscularis and serosa .
a muscular coat that is part of a jejunum .
a muscular coat that is part of a urinary bladder .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a respiratory system venous blood vessel .
a layer of microvilli ,  thin cylindrical membrane - covered projections on the surface of an animal cell containing a core bundle of actin filaments [ go , modified ] 
a microvillus layer that is striated and found in the intestine .
blood - forming tissue ,  consisting of reticular fibers and cells .
the sclera and cornea form the fibrous tunic of the bulb of the eye ;  the sclera is opaque ,  and constitutes the posterior five - sixths of the tunic ;  the cornea is transparent ,  and forms the anterior sixth .
a anatomical line that adjacent_to a epithelium and adjacent_to a mesenchyme .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a cloaca .
the opening of the cloacal chamber to the outside of the organism .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a terminal part of digestive tract .
an anatomical space with no opening to another space or to the exterior .
triangular calcified papillae  ( often five )  placed radially around the anus of some holothuriidae
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pectoral complex  -  i .e .
the collection of all skeletal elements in a pelvic complex  -  i .e .
the posterior region of the neck ,  including the suboccipital region .
a gland that is part of a cloaca .
a mucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a cloaca .
a submucosa that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a serous membrane that is part of a cloaca  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscular coat that is part of a cloaca .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a vagina .
a muscular coat that is part of a duodenum .
a muscular coat that is part of a colon .
a muscular coat that is part of a anal canal .
a serous membrane that is part of a fallopian tube .
a adventitia that is part of a esophagus .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a umbilical cord .
a anatomical junction that connects a stomach and connects a duodenum .
a mucosa that is part of a gastroduodenal junction .
a depression on the ventral side of the femur ,  at the knee joint ,  between the condyles .
a depression or fissure in the surface of the brain .
a posterior cardinal vein that is in_the_left_side_of a multicellular organism .
a vein that is part of a abdomen .
the interdental plate refers to the bone - filled mesial - distal region between the teeth
a vein that drains a lip .
a nonskeletal ligament that is part of a liver .
any vein within the general circulation that transports blood back to the right atrium of the heart .
a vein that drains the soleus
a vein that drains the gastrocnemius
one of two arteries  ( anterior and posterior choroidal artery )  that supply blood to the choroid plexus ,  optic tract ,  hippocampus ,  globus pallidus ,  and other various brain regions .
a gland that is part of a foregut - midgut junction .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_left_side_of a telencephalon .
a telencephalic ventricle that is in_the_right_side_of a telencephalon .
a molar or premolar
laryngeal ligament that connects the cricoid cartilage to the pharynx [ wp , modified ] 
laryngeal ligament that connects the epiglottis to the thyroid cartilage [ wp , modified ] 
laryngeal ligament that connects the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages [ wp , modified ] 
this attaches the caudal border of the thyroid cartilage to the ventral arch of the cricoid cartilage .
the cricotracheal ligament connects the cricoid cartilage with the first ring of the trachea [ wp ]  .
the layer of the ovarian stroma lying immediately beneath the tunica albuginea ,  composed of connective tissue cells and fibers ,  among which are scattered primary and secondary  ( antral )  follicles in various stages of development ;  the cortex varies in thickness according to the age of the individual ,  becoming thinner with advancing years ;  included in the follicles are the cumulus oophorus ,  membrana granulosa  ( and the granulosa cells inside it )  ,  corona radiata ,  zona pellucida ,  and primary oocyte ;  the zona pellucida ,  theca of follicle ,  antrum and liquor folliculi are also contained in the follicle ;  also in the cortex is the corpus luteum derived from the follicles .
highly vascular stroma found in the center of the ovary that forms from embryonic mesenchyme and contains blood vessels ,  lymphatic vessels ,  and nerves ;  this stroma forms the tissue of the hilum by which the ovarian ligament is attached ,  and through which the blood vessels enter ;  it does not contain any ovarian follicles .
glands of moll ,  also known as ciliary glands ,  are modified apocrine sweat glands that are found on the margin of the eyelid .
any gland that is part of an eyelid .
any of the sebaceous glands that are in the eyelid .
the secretory unit of a serous gland .
a major organism subdivisionthat is the entire part of an anatomical structure ventral to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same horizontal plane .
a future glans that is part of a male genital tubercle .
a future glans that is part of a female genital tubercle .
the precursor of the urethra
a epithelial tube that develops from a mullerian duct in a male .
a diaphysis that is part of a fibula [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a diaphysis that is part of a tibia .
anatomical cavity that is the lumen of the skull and contains the brain .
the occipital angle is rounded and corresponds with the point of meeting of the sagittal and lambdoidal sutures - a point which is termed the lambda  ( after the greek letter of the same name )  ;  in the fetus this part of the skull is membranous ,  and is called the posterior fontanelle .
the sphenopetrosal fissure  ( or sphenopetrosal suture )  is the cranial suture between the sphenoid bone and the petrous portion of the temporal bone .
the upper one third of esophagus in which the muscle layer is composed of muscle cells of the striated type .
a blood vessel endothelium that is part of a lung  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any fascia tissue that is part of the neck region .
a fascia that is part of a abdomen .
a sphincter muscle that is part of a cloaca .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a caudal vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a cervical vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a thoracic vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a lumbar vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a lumbar vertebra endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
the space that surrounds an organism .
a section through the tube or network of tubes that connects the ovaries to the outside of the body .
the anatomical space that is enclosed by a stomach .
a anatomical cavity that is part of a ear vesicle .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 1 plus metapodial segment .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 2 plus metapodial segment .
a metapodial bone that is associated with digit iii .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 4 plus metapodial segment .
a metapodium bone that is part of a digit 5 plus metapodial segment .
an element formed from the fusion of metapodium 3 and metapodium 4  ( i .e .
an element formed from the fusion of metacarpal 3 and metacarpal 4 .
an element formed from the fusion of metatarsal 3 and metatarsal 4 .
a primary molar tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a secondary molar tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a primary molar tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
a secondary molar tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
short bones are designated as those bones that are as wide as they are long .
ossicle that develops within bands of dense ,  regular connective tissue  ( e .g . ,  tendons and ligaments )  .
a sesamoid element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a epithelium that is part of a intestinal villus .
the prostate gland lobe that is located on the lateral side of the organ .
the buccal nerve  ( also called the long buccal nerve )  is a nerve in the face .
a nerve that innervates the lateral pterygoid muscle .
the masseteric artery is small and passes laterally through the mandibular notch to the deep surface of the masseter muscle ,  which it supplies .
a tarsal bone that is formed from the fusion of the 1st and 2nd tarsal bones .
an anatomical line of the face that connects the two inner  ( medial )  canthi of the eye .
a inner canthus that is part of a right eye .
a inner canthus that is part of a left eye .
a dorsal thalamus that is in_the_left_side_of a diencephalon .
a dorsal thalamus that is in_the_right_side_of a diencephalon .
anatomical space that is an opening in a bone of the skull .
an anatomical space which is the lumen of some anatomical conduit and connects two or more spaces together [ fma , modified ]  .
periosteum that is part of a skull .
a germinal center that is part of a tonsil .
a zone of soft tissue located on the posterior of the lateral side of the pelvic region corresponding to the gluteal muscles .
vascular endothelium found in blood vessels of the blood - brain - barrier .
vascular endothelium found in colon blood vessels .
the epithelium that forms the surface of the tonsil dips into the underlying connective tissue in numerous places ,  forming crypts kown as tonsillar crypts .
epithelium lining the exocrine pancreas .
a hair in the frontal genital area of adolescent and adult humans ,  located on and around the sex organs ,  the crotch ,  and sometimes at the top of the inside of the thighs ,  in the pubic region around the pubis bone .
a strand of hair that is part of a axilla .
musculature of the head and neck ,  spine ,  and ribs .
a principle subdivision of an organism that includes all structures along the primary axis ,  typically the anterior - posterior axis ,  from head to tail ,  including structures of the body proper where present  ( for example ,  ribs )  ,  but excluding appendages .
the region of the organism associated with the visceral organs .
anatomical projection that is part of the integumentl system .
a tubular passage that extends from the primitive pit into the head process during the early stages of embryonic development in mammals .
the deep layer  ( fascia of scarpa )  is a layer of the anterior abdominal wall .
the dartos fascia is a fat - free layer of smooth muscular fiber outside the external spermatic fascia but below the skin .
a dartos muscle that is part of a male reproductive system .
a dartos muscle that is part of a female reproductive system .
the entrance to the inguinal canal .
fluid contained within the notochordal canal
a metaphysis that is part of a ulna .
a metaphysis that is part of a metaphysis .
a metaphysis that is part of a tibia .
a metaphysis that is part of a radius bone .
a diaphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a metacarpal bone .
a organ component layer that is part of a integumental system .
a blood that is part of a artery .
a blood that is part of a vein .
a blood that is part of a capillary .
one of two openings in the uterine cervix .
opening of uterine cervix into the vagina .
the cavity formed by the walls of the cervix .
any of the organs or elements that are part of the digestive system .
a fold of skin of the upper eyelid that partially covers the inner corner of the eye .
a plate of bone from the maxilla that that projects upward ,  medialward ,  and backward ,  by the side of the nose ,  forming part of its lateral boundary [ wp , modified ]  .
great vessels is a term used to refer collectively to the large vessels that bring blood to and from the heart .
a organ cavity that is part of a uterus .
line across midline connecting a left and right nipples .
a nipple that is in_the_left_side_of a body proper .
a nipple that is in_the_right_side_of a body proper .
a diaphysis that is part of a metatarsal bone .
a zone of skin that is part of a palmar / plantar part of autopod .
a zone of skin that is part of a palmar part of manus .
a zone of skin that is part of a skin of pes .
embryonic structure that gives rise to the telencephalon .
any of the intrinsic muscles of the manus  ( hand ) 
any of the muscles of the thenar eminence ,  a raised fleshy area on the palm of the hand near the base of the thumb .
any of the intrinsic muscles of the pes  ( foot ) 
a patch of hair growing in the opposite direction of the rest of the hair .
a collection of hairs that is part of a craniocervical region .
the entrance of the larynx is a triangular opening ,  narrow in front ,  wide behind ,  and sloping obliquely downward and backward .
either of the the top and bottom portions of the vertebral bodies that interface with the vertebral discs .
mesenchyme that develops_from the neural crest [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the simple cuboidal epithelium lining the lumen of kidney collecting ducts .
a papilla that contain taste buds ,  including the fungiform ,  foliate ,  and circumvallate papillae .
a muscular coat that is part of a ileum .
a sweat gland that is part of the skin of the palmar part of the manus or plantar part of the pes
sweat that is produced by the glands on the palmar and plantar surfaces .
sweat that is produced by the glands of the axilla .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the uterus
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
muscle that is part of the respiratory system .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a sinusoid .
a sinusoidal space that is part of a hepatic sinusoid .
any member of the network of tubes that return blood from the renal tissues to the systemic circulation .
on the dorsal border of the wing of the ilium  ,  at it's junction with the shaft is a cut away .
either of two notches on the dorsal border of the hip bone on each side that when closed off by ligaments form the corresponding sciatic foramina .
is part of the pelvis on the edge of the wing of the ilium .
the superior pubic ramus is a part of the pubic bone which forms a portion of the obturator foramen .
the inferior pubic ramus is thin and flattened .
the acetabular fossa is the roughened depression in the centre of the acetabulum ,  surrounded by the lunate acetabular surface and the acetabular notch .
the acetabulum presents below a deep notch ,  the acetabular notch ,  which is continuous with a circular non - articular depression ,  the acetabular fossa ,  at the bottom of the cavity: this depression is perforated by numerous apertures ,  and lodges a mass of fat .
a taste bud that is located on the tongue ,  situated on a gustatory papilla .
a gustatory epithelium that is part of a tongue .
a gustatory epithelium that is part of a roof of mouth .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the peritoneal cavity .
subcutaneous adipose tissue that is located in the abdominal region .
any of the parasympathetic ganglia of the cardiac plexus between the arch of the aorta and the bifurcation of the pulmonary artery .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the kidney
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all skeletal elements in the thoracic region of the trunk .
subdivision of skeletal system that consists of all ribs and rib joints in an organism .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 3 .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal phalanx that is part of a digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a middle phalanx that is part of a digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 1  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 2  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 3  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 4  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a proximal phalanx that is part of a autopod digit 5  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a distal inter - phalangeal joint that is part of the 3rd digit .
a distal inter - phalangeal joint that is part of the 3rd pedal digit .
a distal inter - phalangeal joint that is part of the 3rd manual digit .
a subdivision of the central canal of the spinal cord along its anterior - posterior axis .
the white laminae of cerebellum is subdivision of the cerebellar cortex comprised of myelinated axons lying deep to the granule cell layer of the cerebellar cortex .
part of spinal cord central canal contained in the thoracic spinal cord .
part of central canal contained within the cervical spinal cord .
part of central canal lying within the lumbar spinal cord .
part of spinal cord central canal contained in the sacral spinal cord .
a ventral horn of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a white matter of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a ventral horn of spinal cord that is part of a cervical spinal cord .
a gray matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a white matter of spinal cord that is part of a thoracic spinal cord .
a sulcus of brain that is part of a frontal cortex .
a white matter that is part of a medulla oblongata .
a distal interphalangeal joint that is part of a digit 2 .
a distal interphalangeal joint that is part of a digit 4 .
a distal interphalangeal joint that is part of a digit 5 .
the angular vein formed by the junction of the frontal vein and supraorbital vein ,  runs obliquely downward ,  on the side of the root of the nose ,  to the level of the lower margin of the orbit ,  where it becomes the anterior facial vein .
any of three grooves in the temporal lobe including the inferior ,  middle ,  and superior temporal sulci .
the deep auricular artery often arises in common with the anterior tympanic artery .
a venous system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a vascular system that overlaps a umbilical cord and is part of a entire extraembryonic component .
a epithelium that is part of a frontonasal prominence .
a unilaminar epithelium that develops_from a ectoderm and is part of a anal region .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a pleuroperitoneal canal .
a epithelium that is part of a median lingual swelling .
a duct that is located between lobules ,  within the thin connective tissue septa that separate lobules .
the secretory unit of a mucous gland .
a duct that is located within a lobule ,  with no more connective tissue intervening between ducts and secretory units  ( i .e . ,  acini or tubules )  than between adjacent secretory units .
a duct that is located between lobes ,  within conspicuous ,  thick connective tissue septa that separate lobes .
an element formed from the fusion of metapodium bones 2 ,  3 and 4  ( i .e .
an element formed from the fusion of metapodium bones 2 ,  3 and 4 in the pedal autopod .
the domain of the diaphragm that is located dorsally and attaches to the vertebrae and surrounds the esophagus and aorta .
a crus of diaphragm that is in_the_right_side_of a diaphragm .
a crus of diaphragm that is in_the_left_side_of a diaphragm .
a blood vessel that drains from from an upper eyelid .
a blood vessel that drains from from an eyelid .
an artery that supplies blood to an eyelid .
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive forebrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive midbrain
a neuromere that is part of the presumptive spinal cord
attached to the posterior border of the hard palate is a thin ,  firm fibrous lamella called the palatine aponeurosis ,  which supports the muscles and gives strength to the soft palate .
any muscle organ that is part of a cloaca .
the lingual septum consists of a vertical layer of fibrous tissue ,  extending throughout the entire length of the median plane of the tongue ,  though not quite reaching the dorsum .
any collection of muscles that is part of the forelimb stylopod region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pelvic complex .
any collection of muscles that is part of a pectoral complex .
any muscle organ that is part of a pectoral appendage  ( forelimb or pectoral fin )  .
any muscle organ that is part of a pelvic appendage  ( hindlimb or pelvic fin )  .
a ring of fibrous tissue surrounding the optic nerve at its entrance at the apex of the orbit .
the vastus intermedius  ( cruraeus )  arises from the front and lateral surfaces of the body of the femur in its upper two - thirds ,  sitting under rectus femoris and from the lower part of the lateral intermuscular septum .
chorda tendinea which is attached to the leaflet of mitral valve and is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of left ventricle .
chorda tendinea which is attached to the leaflet of tricuspid valve and is continuous with the endocardium of papillary muscle of right ventricle .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 1 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 2 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 3 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 4 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of pedal digit 5 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 1 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 2 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 3 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 4 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx of manual digit 5 .
a distal epiphysis that is part of a distal phalanx .
a cerebellar hemisphere that is in_the_left_side_of a cerebellum .
a cerebellar hemisphere that is in_the_right_side_of a cerebellum .
white matter that is part of a brainstem  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a muscle organ that consists of skeletal muscle tissue ensheathed in epimysium ,  that develops from myotome and that is innervated by some somatic motor neuron .
a portion of tissue that will develop into vasculature .
one of the primary blood vessel sprouts that originate from the dorsal aorta and posterior cardinal vein and align dorsoventrally at the myotomal boundaries between somites .
the space between a blood vessel and the pia mater .
the major preaxial endrochondral skeletal element in the anterior zeugopod .
a radius - ulna bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
major postaxial endrochondral skeletal element in the anterior zeugopod .
the major preaxial endochondral element in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a vertebral endochondral element in the cervical region of the vertebral column .
a vertebral endochondral element in the thoracic region of the vertebral column .
a lumbar vertebra bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a vertebra endochondral element that is part of the sacral region of the vertebral column .
the major postaxial endochondral element in the posterior zeugopod [ phenoscape ]  .
a calcaneum bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a stapes bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a incus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a malleus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a rib bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a forelimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a hindlimb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 1 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 2 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 3 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 4 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 5 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 1 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 2 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 3 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 4 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 5 phalanx bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 1 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 2 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 3 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 4 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pedal digit 5 metatarsal bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 1 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 2 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 3 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 4 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a manual digit 5 metacarpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a carpus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a tarsus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a femur bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a humerus bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a iliac bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a pubic bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a ischial bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a scapula bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a orbitosphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a sphenoid bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a limb bone or its cartilage or pre - cartilage precursor .
a endochondral element that is part of a autopod region .
a autopod endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
endochondral element located between the proximal and distal rows of carpals or tarsals and thus representing the central carpals or tarsals [ phenoscape ]  .
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a forelimb .
a distal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a centrale endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a forelimb .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal carpal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a hindlimb .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a proximal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 1 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 1 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 2 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 2 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 3 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 3 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal carpal bone 4 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal carpal bone 4 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is part of a hindlimb .
a distal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 1 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 1 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 2 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 2 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 3 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 3 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 4 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 4 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal tarsal bone 5 endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal tarsal bone 5 endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a outer canthus that is in_the_right_side_of a head .
a outer canthus that is in_the_left_side_of a head .
an anatomical line of the face that connects the two outer  ( lateral )  canthi of the eye .
visceral intrapericardial fat contiguous with the myocardial surface .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a prostate gland .
a large fat pad that is located at the base of the abdominal wall ,  in the falciform ligament of the liver .
encapsulated adipose tissue associated with the mesentery
a strand of hair that is part of a autopod region .
a strand of hair that is part of a pes .
a strand of hair that is part of a manus .
a strand of hair that is part of a pinna .
a strand of hair that is part of a tail .
a strand of hair that is part of a ventrum .
a strand of hair that is part of a dorsum .
a gland that is typically found in or near the orbital region ,  in or around either the medial or lateral canthi ,  and is typically associated with secretions onto the eyeball or associated ducts .
a gland that is located in or around the ocular region ,  nearer the outer canthi .
a anatomical space that is enclosed by a conjunctiva .
the two terminal branches of the ophthalmic artery in humans are the dorsal nasal artery and the supratrochlear artery
the inferior branch of the oculomotor nerve or the inferior division ,  the larger ,  divides into three branches .
an eye consisting of multiple light - sensing organs
a blood vessel that is part of a endometrium .
a region of somite adjacent to presomitic mesoderm .
epithelium located in the intersomitic region .
the neck of talus is directed forward and medialward ,  and comprises the constricted portion of the bone between the body and the oval head .
the slightly constricted part of a tooth ,  between the crown and the root .
any structure that is placed on one side of the left - right axis of a bilaterian .
a ligament that is part of a diaphragm .
a hollow ,  muscular organ ,  which ,  by contracting rhythmically ,  contributes to the circulation of lymph ,  blood or analogs .
a nucleus of brain that is part of a dorsal thalamus .
a cluster in the epithalamus that consists of the pineal body and any associated structures ,  such as the parapineal gland or the parietal organ .
a zone of skin that is part of a digit  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_left_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a pancreatic lobule that is in_the_right_side_of a exocrine pancreas .
a basement membrane of epithelium that is part of a respiratory system .
a mesenchyme that is part of a urethra .
a valve that is part of a ureter .
a lymph node that is part of a hypodermis .
a fat pad that is part of a pancreas .
a fat pad that is part of a mediastinum .
a zone of skin that is part of a axilla .
a zone of skin that is part of a external nose .
a fat pad that is part of a axilla .
a zone of skin that is part of a scrotum .
a hepatic artery that is part of a left lobe of liver .
a hepatic artery that is part of a right lobe of liver .
hat part of the duodenal wall traversed by the ductus choledochus ,  ductus pancreaticus ,  and ampulla .
a gyrus that is part of a frontal cortex .
a epithelium that is part of a anal canal .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a ejaculatory duct .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a inferior eyelid tarsus .
a epithelium that is part of a duct of salivary gland .
a smooth muscle tissue that is part of a hypodermis .
any anatomical conduit which is part of the upper respiratory tract
an anatomical chamber that is part of the olfactory apparatus ,  consisting of cavity walls  ( nasal epithelium and mucosal layers )  and the space bounded anteriorly by the nares and posteriorly by the choanae ,  when these structures are present .
a zone of skin that is part of a autopod region .
a portion of connective tissue that is part of a digit .
a blood vessel that is part of a liver .
a epithelium that is part of a ear .
a epithelium that is part of a camera - type eye .
a epithelium that is part of a middle ear .
a epithelium that is part of a external ear .
a epithelium that is part of a foregut .
a lamina propria that is part of a duodenum .
a dental pulp that is part of a incisor tooth .
a tooth enamel organ that is part of a incisor tooth .
a odontogenic mesenchyme that is part of a incisor tooth .
a upper jaw incisor that is in_the_left_side_of a dentition .
an anatomical line that connects two successive vertebral pedicles .
a lymph node that is part of a head .
any of the lymph nodes that are part of a face .
a zone of skin that is part of a heel .
the part of the foot that is the projection of the calcaneus .
a lymph node that is located close to the surface .
a lymph node that is located deeper within the organism ,  further from the surface .
a lymph node that is part of a hindlimb .
a lymph node that is part of a forelimb .
the infrapatellar fat pad ,  also known as hoffa's fat pad ,  is a cylindrical piece of fat that is situated under and behind the patella bone within the knee .
a vertebral arch joint that is part of a cervical region of vertebral column .
a capillary that is part of a lung .
the circumference of the base of the glans forms a rounded projecting border ,  the corona of the glans penis ,  overhanging a deep retroglandular sulcus ,  behind which is the neck of the penis .
a breast that is part of a male organism .
subdivision of thorax which is anterior to the plane of the posterior boundary of the middle mediastinum .
the intersection of the frontal and two nasal bones of the human skull .
a compact bone tissue that is part of a bone tissue of long bone .
a compact bone tissue that is part of a diaphysis .
a epiphyseal plate that is part of a radius bone .
the palmar branch of the median nerve is a branch of the median nerve which arises at the lower part of the forearm and innervates skin of proximal central palm and thenar eminence .
subdivision of thorax which includes all structures from the skin to the costal pleura .
a zone of the frontal bone that connects the supraorbital rirdges .
the line of junction between the horizontal parts of the palatine bones that extends from both sides of the skull to form the posterior part of the hard palate .
a strand of hair that is part of a head .
a strand of hair that is part of a trunk .
a hole in the diaphragm through which the esophagus passes
the central point on the posterior surface of the lens .
a zone of skin in the periorbital region of the face .
the midline prominence of the nose ,  extending from the nasal root to the tip .
on the pinna ,  a curved prominence of cartilage ,  parallel with and in front of the helix ,  is called the antihelix ,  also known as the anthelix ;  this divides above into two crura ,  the crura antihelicis ,  between which is a triangular depression ,  the fossa triangularis .
the antitragus is a feature of human ear anatomy .
a zone of skin that is part of a forehead .
a incisor tooth that is part of a primary dentition .
a stroma that is part of a liver .
a collagenous capsule covering the external surface of the liver .
a lymph node that is part of a bronchus .
is the sensory system for the sense of hearing .
skeletal element that functionally replaces the notochord [ vsap , modified ]  .
luminal space of the right ventricle of the heart .
a epithelium that is part of a male urethra .
a anatomical space that is part of a duodenum .
luminal space of the left atrium of the heart .
luminal space of the left ventricle of the heart .
a anatomical space that is part of a jejunum .
a epithelium that is part of a female urethra .
luminal space of the right atrium of the heart .
frontal lobe is the anterior - most of five lobes of the cerebral hemisphere .
subdivision of telencephalon which is one of a number of subdivisions of each hemisphere separated by both real landmarks  ( sulci and fissures )  and arbitrary boundaries [ fma , modified ]  .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a frontal lobe .
grey matter neocortex region of a lobe of the cerebral hemisphere .
gray matter of the parietal region of the neocortex ,  located in the parietal lobe of gyrencephalic animals .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a parietal lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a temporal lobe .
a white matter of cerebral lobe that is part of a limbic lobe .
gray matter of the temporal region of the neocortex ,  located in the temporal lobe in gyrencephalic animals
the external part of the developing pharynx that is made of ectoderm .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is part of gray matter .
a layer of of the central nervous system that is composed of white matter .
mucus produced in the respiratory tract .
any mucus produced by a mucosae of the respiratory system .
a white matter that is part of the midbrain .
a blood vessel that is part of a cerebellum .
an roughly circular indentation in a surface .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 1 that develop into the tragus ,  crus of the helix ,  and helix .
a collection of protruberances derived from pharyngeal arch 2 that develop into the concha ,  antihelix and antitragus .
the dorsal region of the optic cup that gives rise to the dorsal part of the retina .
the ventral region of the optic cup that gives rise to the ventral part of the retina .
primordium that develops into the central nervous system
primordium that develops into the nervous system
the joint that is formed by the union of the humerus ,  the scapula  ( or shoulder blade )  ,  and the clavicle  ( or collarbone )  .
epithelium lining the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
any muscle tissue of the distalmost portion of the digestive tract .
the part of the conceptus that may be lost before birth or will be discarded at birth ,  or when the embryo becomes an independent organism .
an embryonic anatomical entity that will turn into one or more other anatomical entities ,  perhaps with other anatomical entities ,  later in development .
a periosteum that is part of a long bone .
a frenulum of lip that is part of a upper lip .
a frenulum of lip that is part of a lower lip .
a metaphysis that is part of a fibula .
a bony structure embedded in skin ,  roughly equivalent to osteoderms .
a sesamoid element that is part of a tarsal skeleton .
a set of teeth in which each tooth that attaches to a vomer .
the ventral part of the body wall
the dorsal part of the body wall
a mesenchyme - derived anatomical entity undergoing a transtion to become another structure .
a primordium that has the potential to develop into a saliva - secreting gland .
any of the small racemose mucous glands in the mucous membrane lining the cheeks
a bony part of vertebral arch that is part of a cervical vertebral arch .
a bony part of vertebral arch that is part of a sacral vertebra 1 .
a viscus that is part of a abdomen .
internal  ( endosteal )  surface of the base of skull
a raised fleshy area on the palm of the hand near the base of the thumb .
hypothenar refers to a group of three muscles of the palm that control the motion of the little finger .
a ridge of tissue that extends along the midline of the scrotum .
a primary incisor tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
a mesopodial endochondral element that is in the most proximal part of the mesopodial skeleton ,  connected to the zeugopodial skeleton .
a proximal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
an endochondral element in the distal portion of the mesopodial skeleton ,  between the central mesopodial skeleton and the metapodial skeleton
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of cartilage tissue .
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a pre - cartilage condensation .
a distal mesopodial endochondral element that is composed primarily of a bone tissue .
a muscle layer that is part of the rectum
any portion of smooth muscle tissue that is part of the rectum
a kidney interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a kidney interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
a renal pelvis that is part of a left ureter .
a renal pelvis that is part of a right ureter .
a renal cortex interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a renal cortex interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
a renal medulla interstitium that is part of a left kidney .
a renal medulla interstitium that is part of a right kidney .
encapsulated adipose tissue that is part of a tail .
any vertebra endochondral element that is part of the caudal region of the vertebral column  ( tail or coccyx )  .
a transverse process that is part of a cervical vertebra
a rib that is attached to a cervical vertebra .
a rib that is attached to a lumbar vertebra .
a transverse process that is part of a lumbar vertebra
a zone of skin that is part of a lower lip .
a zone of skin that is part of a upper lip .
a ligament that is part of a middle ear .
a skeletal ligament that attaches to the malleus .
an organ system subdivision that is the part of the lymphoid system that includes the pulmonary lymphatic vessels .
a lymphatic vessel that is part of a lung .
a system consisting of renin ,  angiotensin - converting enzyme ,  and angiotensin ii .
a sweat gland that is part of a axilla .
a stroma that is part of a pancreas .
a capsule that divides the parenchyma of the pancreas into lobes and lobules
a boundary delimiting a rhombomere .
a vein that supplies blood to the thymus .
a vein that drains a thyroid gland .
an artery that supplies a cervical thymus .
one of the veins draining a meninix .
a branch of the superior mesenteric artery that supplies the jejunum .
a vein that drains a lacrimal gland .
any portion of submucosa that lines the digestive tract .
any organ component layer that consists of muscle tissue .
a muscular coat that is part of a digestive tract .
the anterior or rostral end of the zygomatic arch ,  which includes the temporal process of the zygomatic bone ,  but also including some of the body of the zygomatic bone .
tooth of the lower jaw that is adjacent to the mandibular symphysis
first molar  ( counting anteroposteriorly )  in the upper jaw .
tissue that is part of some adrenal gland
foramen that allows the passge of the glossopharyngeal nerve  ( cranial nerve ix )  .
situated just caudal to the acetabulum ,  the foramen is bound dorsally by the illium and ventrally by the ischium .
the molar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 1
mental nerve is a general somatic afferent  ( sensory )  nerve which provides sensation to the anterior aspects of the chin and lower lip as well as the buccal gingivae of the mandibular anterior teeth and the premolars .
a branch of the maxillary nerve that enters the infraorbital canal and innervates the lower eyelid ,  upper lip ,  the nasal vestibule ,  the upper incisors ,  canines ,  premolars ,  upper gums ,  lower eyelid and conjunctiva ,  and part of the nose .
a skeletal ligament that is part of a hip joint .
a z - shaped canal running through the temporal bone from the internal acoustic meatus to the stylomastoid foramen .
an bone foramen in the ethmoid bone .
a vascular foramen opening on the outer surface of a nasal bone .
a inguinal ring that is part of a female reproductive system .
a inguinal ring that is part of a male reproductive system .
a deep inguinal ring that is part of a female reproductive system .
a deep inguinal ring that is part of a male reproductive system .
the region of the mandible on or near the midline  ( near the mandiblular symphysis ) 
the anatomical space within the intestine .
muscle innervated by the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
a secondary canine tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a secondary canine tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
a lower jaw incisor that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition .
a lower jaw incisor that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition .
a primary incisor tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a upper primary canine tooth that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition .
a upper primary canine tooth that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition .
a lower primary incisor tooth that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition .
a lower primary incisor tooth that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition .
a primary canine tooth that is part of a upper jaw region .
a primary canine tooth that is part of a lower jaw region .
a incisor tooth that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition and is part of a lower jaw region .
a incisor tooth that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition and is part of a lower jaw region .
a incisor tooth that is in_the_central_side_of a dentition and is part of a upper jaw region .
a incisor tooth that is in_the_lateral_side_of a dentition and is part of a upper jaw region .
the molar tooth of the upper or lower jaw that is phylogenetically number 2
the subdivision of the dentition that consists entire of incisor teeth .
the neck region of a bone organ .
an interconnected tubular multi - tissue structure that contains fluid that is actively transported around the heart .
thoracic splanchnic nerves are splanchnic nerves that arise from the sympathetic trunk in the thorax and travel inferiorly to provide sympathetic innervation to the abdomen .
a membranous sac in animals that serves as the receptacle of a liquid or contains gas .
adipose tissue which is located throughout skeletal muscle and is responsible for the marbling seen in certain cuts of beef .
the deep terminal division of the pudendal nerve that runs along the dorsum of the penis and innervates the the corpus cavernosum penis ,  the prepuce and the glans penis .
the deep terminal division of the pudendal nerve that runs along the dorsum of the clitoral shaft and innervates the the glans clitoris .
zone of skin that is part of the anterior region of the chest
any region of epithelium that is part of a skin region .
the part of the eye that consists of both the retina and the optic choroid
a central point or region on the anterior or posterior surface of the lens
either of the outermost digits in a five - digit autopod ,  or their phylogenetic equivalent .
any of the three medial digits in a five - digit autopod ,  or their phylogenetic equivalent .
a white matter that is part of the hindbrain .
a white matter that is part of the forebrain .
a white matter that is part of the myelencephalon .
epithelial layer that is part of the external part of the nose .
an oily substance that prevents evaporation of the eye's tear film
an exocrine gland that is part of a integumental system .
the spinal accessory nucleus lies within the cervical spinal cord  ( c1 - c5 )  in the ventral horn .
a blood vessel that supplies or drains an ear .
a nucleus in the ventral part of the anterior horn of the sacral region of the spinal cord that is the origin of the pudendal nerve .
the single bud - like invagination of the conjunctival fornix epithelium at the temporal aspect of the eye that signals lacrimal gland formation  ( int rev cytol .
an aqueous substance that covers the anterior surface of the eyeball ,  keeping the cornea wet .
a portion of organism substance that is secreted by a reproductive gland .
a nerve that innervates a lower eyelid and is a branch of the infra - orbital branch of the maxillary nerve .
a nerve that innervates an eyelid and is a branch of the infra - orbital branch of the maxillary nerve .
a nerve that innervates a lower eyelid .
a nerve that innervates an upper eyelid .
a branch of the ciliary ganglion that innervates the ciliary muscles ,  the iris ,  and the tunics of the eyeball .
single layer of a laminar structure ,  identified by different density ,  arrangement or size of cells and processes arranged in flattened layers or lamina [ cumbo ]  .
serous membrane layer that is adjacent to and lines an organ .
serous membrane layer that lines to a body cavity .
the layer of endometrial epithelium adjacent to the uterine cavity .
a blood vessel of the placenta .
a mammary gland duct that is part of a male organism .
a specific region of the foregut into the area in which the lung will develop .
a set of neural structures that subserve a specific function ,  e .g . ,  visual system
white matter that lies deep to the granular cell layer of the cerebellar cortex .
the part of the central nervous system that is involved with movement .
a taste bud that is located on the soft palate ,  in the roof of the mouth .
any organ that is the primary organ of vocalization behavior .
an embryonic or larval epithelium that is committed to form part of the nervous system .
an epithelium that is undergoing proliferation to provide large numbers of neuronal cells .
a neuroepithelium some of whose cells are undergoing terminal differentiation to become neuronal cells .
the layer of the developing cerebral cortex that is formed from the first cohort of neurons to migrate out of the cortical ventricular zone ;  split by the second wave into marginal zone and subplate .
any of the cranial nerves ,  or their central nervous system analogs  ( the optic tract ,  the epiphyseal tract )  .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the parietal eye .
a cranial nerve fiber tract that innervates the pineal body .
a taste bud that is located external to the digestive tube ,  on the head or body ,  as found in species such as goldfish .
a taste bud that is located on a lip .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the head .
a taste bud that is located in the pharynx .
a taste bud that is located on the roof of the mouth .
a taste bud that is located in the esophagus .
a taste bud that is located on the skin of the trunk .
the autonomic nerve is a small nerve which carries postganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic neurons from the zygomaticotemporal nerve ;  a branch of the maxillary nerve ,  to the lacrimal nerve ;  a branch of the ophthalmic nerve .
any ligament that connects the coracoid process with the clavicle
any sweat gland that is part of an areola
any commissure within the hindbrain .
the zone of skin that overlaps with the glabella region .
a region of the forehead corresponding to the space between the eyebrows and above the nose .
a part of an organism or organ that is continuous with its surroundings and distinguished from its surroundings based on morphology .
any substance in the body or expelled from the body that is in a gaseous state .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system that is composed primarily of air .
the outgrowth of neuroectoderm located on the floor of the embryonic hypothalamus that gives rise to the neurohypophysis  ( posterior lobe )  of the pituitary gland
the area of axial mesoderm that develops into the prechordal plate
the thickened ridge of bone that contains the tooth sockets on the premaxilla .
the cervical ganglia are paravertebral ganglia of the sympathetic nervous system .
endocardium that is part of the left atrium .
parenchymal tissue that forms the pineal gland .
any of the muscles that are responsible for moving the scapula .
a cranial suture in the midline of the skull that connects the left and right maxilla bones
an multicellular anatomical structure that has subparts of multiple organs as a part .
a cluster of cells ,  largely surrounded by a morphological boundary .
material anatomical entity consisting of multiple anatomical structures that are not connected to each other .
a collection of anatomical structures that are alike in terms of their morphology or developmental origin .
an anatomical collection that is arranged in a line .
a region or zone on the surface of an organism that encompasses skin and any adnexa ,  down through muscles and bounded by underlying skeletal support structures .
the epithelial layer covering the biliary system .
any organ component layer that consists of smooth muscle tissue .
an enlarged chamber in the blood sinus capable of accumulating a large volume of blood .
any portion of gas located in a part of the respiratory system .
a population of lymphatic endothelial cell precursors that will form the lymph vessels .
mesenchyme that is part of a developing jaw  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
either the external or internal abdominal oblique muscles
an epithelium that is part of an eyelid  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
an epithelium that is part of a naris  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the fibro - osseous passageway on the palmar side of the wrist that connects the distal forearm to the middle compartment of the deep plane of the palm .
any of the tubular canals of the parotid gland located within the parenchymal  ( secretory )  tissue i .e .
any of the interlobular excretory ducts of the parotid gland which are found in the connective tissue septa and formed by the union of several intralobular striated  ( secretory )  ducts ;  ultimately ,  the excretory ducts of the parotid gland coalesce and form a single main excretory duct  ( stensen's duct )  that opens into the oral cavity ;  excretory ducts do not change the secretory product .
any of the interlobular excretory ducts of a salivary gland which are found in the connective tissue septa and formed by the union of several intralobular striated  ( secretory )  ducts [ mp , generalized ]  .
any of the excretory ducts of the parotid gland which are found in the connective tissue septa i .e .
a vertebra that has a transverse process .
a post - anal tail that attaches outside the tail .
a muscle that attaches to the iliac crest and to a caudal vertebra .
a transverse process that is part of a caudal vertebra
any of the two testis - carrying compartments of the scrotum .
the perineal raphe extends from the anus ,  through the mid - line of the scrotum  ( scrotal raphe )  and upwards through the posterior mid - line aspect of the penis  ( penile raphe )  .
a nerve that innervates the sole of the foot .
a plantar nerve that supplies the lateral side of the plantar part of the foot ,  including pedal digit 5 .
a plantar nerve that supplies the medial side of the plantar part of the foot ,  including pedal digit 1 .
any of the muscles that are entirely within the body part or segment moved by them .
a space or gap between the left and right central incisors ,  on either the upper or lower jaw .
a space or gap between the left and right central incisors on the upper jaw .
a space or gap between the left and right central incisors on the lower jaw .
any material entity that is located in the digestive tract .
a space or gap any two incisors .
any of the sutures of the hard palate
a curved region of the skeleton of the pes  ( foot )  formed by the tarsal and metatarsal bones .
a pointed projection at the front extremity of the intermaxillary suture .
anatomical surface ,  which is the external surface of the whole body .
the flattened aspect of the prostate with a slight furrow facing the rectum and anus .
the organ of hearing located on the right side of the head .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are just beneath the surface of the skin .
the narrowest portion of the gallbladder and distal to the cystic duct .
the organ of hearing located on the left side of the head [ ncit , modified ]  .
the membrane the surrounds the prostate gland .
a lymph node located in the retroperitoneal space .
an artery that supplies the pituitary gland .
the parietal pleura that lines the mediastinum .
a vein that drains blood from the right adrenal gland into the inferior vena cava .
the external portion of the prostate including the anterior ,  inferolateral ,  lateral and posterior surfaces .
a vein that drains blood from the left adrenal gland into the left renal artery .
the aspect of the prostate facing the pubic symphysis .
any of several arteries that arise from the aorta and supply blood to the esophagus .
the tubules that carry lymph throughout the body that are in the interior of the body or limbs .
the part of the circulatory system that lies within the subcutaneous tissue layers close to the surface of the skin .
any of the veins carrying deoxygenated blood from the subcutaneous tissue layers .
the part of the circulatory system that lies deep beneath the subcutaneous tissue layers away from the surface of the skin .
a blood vessel carrying deoxygenated blood far beneath the skin usually accompanying an artery .
any chamber of the left side of the heart
any chamber of the right side of the heart
an embryonic structure positioned halfway between the prospective eye and ear ,  adjacent to the future midbrain - hindbrain boundary .
any lymph vessel that is located in the dura mater of the brain .
the parts of the orbital region that are outside of the the eyeball ,  including the lacrimal apparatus ,  the extraocular muscles and the eyelids ,  eyelashes ,  eyebrows and the conjunctiva
any nerve that innervates the larynx .
any nerve that innervates the pinna .
any nerve that innervates the penis .
any nerve that innervates the clitoris .
any nerve that innervates the fibularis .
a parasympathetic ganglion located on the short ciliary nerve differentiated from the main ciliary ganglion by virtue of the fact that it had no root derived directly from the inferior trunk of the oculomotor nerve and it never attaches to this nerve
any parasympathetic ganglion that extends fibers into the short ciliary nerve .
the primordial mouth region of the developing head .
a muscle layer that is part of the sigmoid colon
the sum of epicardial and paracardial fat deposits .
fat deposits in the mediastinum outside the parietal pericardium  .
any fat deposit surrounding a visceral organ .
the part of the ventral body cavity that is within the abdominal segment of the trunk ,  which encompasses the abdomen proper plus pelvic cavity .
a serous sac that is the aggregate of the peritoneum and the peritoneal cavity ,  located in the abdominal cavity .
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the left side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the left side of the abdomen
the thick outer layer of the adrenal gland that is in the right side of the abdomen
the adrenal gland medulla that is in the right side of the abdomen
the domain of the diaphragm that is a thin domed sheet of muscle composed of a radial array of myofibers extending laterally from the ribs and medially to a central tendon .
the mostly sharp edge of the orbital opening that is the peripheral border of the base of the pyramidal orbit .
a suture between the frontal bone and the frontal process of the maxilla
a suture between the orbital surface of the body of the maxilla with the orbital plate of the ethmoid bone .
an inconstant suture between the pterygoid process of the sphenoid bone and the body of the maxilla .
a suture between the lacrimal bone and the maxilla .
a suture between the maxilla and premaxilla .
the lumen of the epididymis
the line that divided the gluteal regions of the body .
a horizontal crease formed by the inferior aspect of the buttocks and the posterior upper leg .
a vein that leaves the vestibule through an individual bone canal running parallel to the vestibular aqueduct up to the dura of the posterior side of the petrosa in the area of the endolymphatic sac .
an region of the mesoderm that includes anterior lateral mesoderm of the first heart field plus contiguous pharyngeal mesoderm that gives rise to second - heart - field - derived regions of the heart and branchiomeric muscles .
an organ subunit in the skin that gives rise to cutaneous appendage .
a surface structure that is the narrowed downward continuation of the conchal space bounded anteriorly by the borders of the tragus ,  posteriorly by theantitragus ,  and along its lower lateral margins and inferior boundary by the connection between the first two .
an anatomical junction that is between the sigmoid colon and rectum .
material anatomical entity that forms the outermost boundary of an anatomical structure .
a bodily fluid that is located in the coelom .
the corticobulbar and corticospinal tracts combined .
any gland that is part os the respiratory system .
a notochord that has persisted beyond the embryonic stage .
fluid that lines the vaginal walls that consists of multiple secretions that collect in the vagina from different glands .
a transudate found in the serous sac .
parenchymal tissue that consists of the alveoli ,  grape - like clusters where milk is stored ,  and branching ducts ,  which are tubular canals carrying gladular secretions .
the small synovial joint connecting the inclus and the stapes ,  located between the lenticular process on the long crus of the incus and the head of the stapes .
the saddle - shaped synovial joint connecting the incus and the malleus .
any synovial joint that connects auditory ossicles .
any of the eight ligaments pertaining to the uterus including the anterior ,  posterior ,  lateral ,  sacro - uterine and round ligaments .
the zygomaticotemporal nerve or zygomaticotemporal branch  ( temporal branch )  is derived from the maxillary branch of the trigeminal nerve  ( cranial nerve v )  .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of aorta .
wall of ventricle which is continuous with the wall of pulmonary trunk .
region of wall of right ventricle which is continuous with the lateral and septal walls of right ventricle .
a small fold of mucous membrane in the mouth ,  connecting either the tongue or the lip to the mouth mucosa .
a mucosa that is part of a lip region  [ automatically generated definition ]  .
the upper tract of the renal system .
an anatomical structure that is located along the line dividing two regions of an anatomical structure .
wall of organ which has as its parts the endocardium ,  myocardium  ,  epicardium ,  and the cardiac septum ,  surrounded by the pericardial sac proper and is continuous with the walls of the systemic and pulmonary arterial and venous trees .
a collection of hairs that grows on the external ear .
a collection of hairs that grows on the forehead .
a zone of skin that is part of the snout .
a collection of hairs that grows on the snout .
a zone of skin that is part of the face .
the parenchyma of the spleen ,  consisting of lymphocytes and macrophages .
a parenchyma that is part of a spleen .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the digestive tract .
cartilage which is part of the axial skeleton .
tooth that is attached to the premaxilla .
joint that articulates the hyomandibular cartilage or bone and otic region cartilage or sphenotic bone ,  and often pterotic bone and prootic bone .
joint that articulates the left and right premaxillary bones .
joint that articulates the premaxilla and maxilla .
capillary that has pores in the endothelial cells  ( 60 - 80 nm in diameter )  that are spanned by a diaphragm of radially oriented fibrils and allow small molecules and limited amounts of protein to diffuse
a thin layer of smooth muscle immediately beneath the base of the villi which permits the intestinal mucosa to dynamically move and fold .
non neural ectoderm that surrounds the presumptive neural plate and gives rise to neurogenic placodes .
structures of the dermis ,  epidermis ,  glands and pigment cells recognizable on the external surfaces of the integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the external head integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the body integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the limb integument .
dermal ,  epidermal ,  glandular and pigment structures of the tail integument .
blood vessels in respiratory skin .
skeletal tissue that is mineralized .
anatomical projection that is composed of bone or cartilage tissue .
an anatomical surface that is part of a bone
mesenchyme that is part of a forelimb bud .
mesenchyme that is part of a hindlimb bud .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 2 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 3 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 4 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of manual digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 2 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 3 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 4 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of pedal digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 1 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 2 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 3 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 4 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the autopod consisting of digit 5 plus the region incorporating a single metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of a single digit plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 2 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 3 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 4 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of manual digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 2 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 3 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 4 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of pedal digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 1 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 2 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 3 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 4 plus the associated metapodial element .
a subdivision of the skeleton of the autopod consisting of the phalanges of digit 5 plus the associated metapodial element .
the distal - most point of the medial condyle of a femur .
outermost point of a tail .
an anatomical line of a ear that connects the helix of the outer ear to the intertragus incisure of an ear .
an anatomical line of a hindfoot that connects the distal - most part of the longest nail to the posterior - most part of a foot .
the posterior - most point of a foot .
the distal - most point of a cutaneous appendage .
the distal - most point of a digit .
an anatomical line of a hindfoot that connects the end of the longest digit to the posterior - most part of a foot .
an anatomical line of a body that connects the tip of the nose to the posterior - most part of a tail .
an anatomical line of a femur that connects the medial condyle to the greater trochanter .
the proximal - most point of the head of a femur .
the proximal - most point of the head of a humerus .
the proximal - most point of the greater trochanter of a femur .
an anatomical line of a femur that connects the medial condyle to the head of a femur .
left part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
right part of the organism dorsal to a horizontal plane and bounded on one side by the same transverse plane .
a zone of skin that is part of a scalp .
a forelimb that is on the right side of a pectoral complex .
a forelimb that is on the left side of a pectoral complex .
a hindlimb that is on the right side of a pelvic complex .
a hindlimb that is on the left side of a pelvic complex .
hepatic serous coat ;  peritoneal covering of the liver ,  enclosing almost all except for a triangular area on its posterior surface  ( the "bare area of the liver" )  and a smaller area where the liver and gallbladder are in direct contact .
subserosal tissue of liver .a zone of areolar connective tissue lying beneath the serous coat of the liver and distinguished with difficulty from the fibrous capsule of glisson .
region of liver parenchyma immediately below the capsule .
the anatomical junction between the duodenum and the jejunum .
the anatomical junction between the descending colon and the sigmoid colon .
a portal vein that drains the descending colon .
the area where the jejunum ends and the ileum part of the intestine begins .
an anatomical junction between two parts of the intestine .
a vein where lymph node venules condense and which exits at the lymph node hilum .
an artery that enters the lymph node at the hilum and branches into smaller arterioles .
a protein coding gene vwf in human .
a protein coding gene xdh in human .
a protein coding gene adipoq in human .
a protein coding gene calca in human .
a protein coding gene cat in human .
a protein coding gene cp in human .
a protein coding gene dpyd in human .
a protein coding gene afp in human .
a protein coding gene alb in human .
a protein coding gene g6pd in human .
a protein coding gene gale in human .
a protein coding gene gast in human .
a protein coding gene gcg in human .
a protein coding gene cblif in human .
a protein coding gene alpi in human .
a protein coding gene alpl in human .
a protein coding gene alpp in human .
a protein coding gene alpg in human .
a protein coding gene gpi in human .
a protein coding gene hpd in human .
a protein coding gene ids in human .
a protein coding gene aox1 in human .
a protein coding gene ins in human .
a protein coding gene lep in human .
a protein coding gene lgals3 in human .
a protein coding gene mgat2 in human .
a protein coding gene oplah in human .
a protein coding gene pah in human .
a protein coding gene prl in human .
a protein coding gene pth in human .
a protein coding gene ren in human .
