an entity that exists in full at any time in which it exists at all ,  persists through time while maintaining its identity and has no temporal parts .
an entity that has temporal parts and that happens ,  unfolds or develops through time .
b is an independent continuant = def .
p is a process = def .
a specifically dependent continuant  that inheres in continuant  entities and are not exhibited in full at every time in which it inheres in an entity or group of entities .
b is a specifically dependent continuant = def .
a role is particular behaviour which a material entity may exhibit .
b is a generically dependent continuant = def .
an independent continuant that is spatially extended whose identity is independent of that of other entities and can be maintained through time .
a part of a multicellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex .
a monocarboxylic acid comprising 1 , 8 - naphthyridin - 4 - one substituted by carboxylic acid ,  ethyl and methyl groups at positions 3 ,  1 ,  and 7 ,  respectively .
a trichothecene mycotoxin produced by fusarium to which wheat ,  barley ,  maize  ( corn )  and their products are susceptible to contamination .
a triazole - based antifungal agent used for the treatment of esophageal candidiasis ,  invasive pulmonary aspergillosis ,  and serious fungal infections caused by scedosporium apiospermum and fusarium spp .
a  quinolone that is quinolin - 4 ( 1h )  - one bearing cyclopropyl ,  carboxylic acid ,  fluoro and piperazin - 1 - yl substituents at positions 1 ,  3 ,  6 and 7 ,  respectively .
a quinolinemonocarboxylic acid with broad - spectrum antibacterial activity against most gram - negative and gram - positive bacteria .
a sulfonamide antibacterial with an oxazole substituent .
elementary particle not affected by the strong force having a spin 1 / 2 ,  a negative elementary charge and a rest mass of 0 .000548579903 ( 13 )  u ,  or 0 .51099906 ( 15 )  mev .
an antagonist that interferes with the action of the calcium - binding messenger protein calmodulin .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mycoplasma genitalium .
an echinocandin initially isolated as a very minor bioactive fermentation product of glarea lozoyensis  ( originally known as zalerion arboricola )  .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid anion carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
a class of carbonyl compound encompassing dicarboxylic acids and any derivatives obtained by substitution of either one or both of the carboxy hydrogens .
any quinone in which one or more of the carbons making up the quinone moiety is substituted by a hydroxy group .
a naphthoquinone in which the oxo groups of the quinone moiety are at positions 1 and 4 of the parent naphthalene ring .
any naphthoquinone in which the naphthaoquinone moiety is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any member of the class of 1 , 4 - naphthoquinones in which the naphthoquinone moiety is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any aromatic amide obtained by acylation of aniline .
a reagent that lightens or whitens a substrate through chemical reaction .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy group to the adjacent tertiary amino group of oxytetracycline ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organic heteroolycyclic compound whose skeleton two ortho - fused chromene rings ,  and their derivatives .
an organic anion that is the major structure of chlortetracycline at ph 7 .3  ( according to marvin v 6 .2 .0 .
a monocarboxylic acid amide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of  ( 2 - nitroimidazol - 1 - yl ) acetic acid with the aromatic amino group of benzylamine .
any organic compound having an initial boiling point less than or equal to 250 degreec  ( 482 degreef )  measured at a standard atmospheric pressure of 101 .3 kpa .
a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms ,  usually but not necessarily adjacent .
organonitrogen compounds that have the general structure r ( 1 )  ( r ( 2 )  ) c=n ( o ) oh  ( r ( 1 )  , r ( 2 )  = h ,  organyl )  .
any inhibitor of s100 calcium - binding protein b .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  undergoes conversion by biochemical  ( enzymatic )  ,  chemical  ( possibly following an enzymatic step )  ,  or physical  ( e .g .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any secondary amino compound ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an aminobenzoate that is the conjugate base of 4 - aminosalicylic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino group of any tertiary amino compound .
any compound that can disrupt the functions of the endocrine  ( hormone )  system
a bronsted acid derived from one or more inorganic compounds .
any main group molecular entity that is gaseous at standard temperature and pressure  ( stp ;  0degreec and 100 kpa )  .
a quinolinemonocarboxylic acid having the carboxy group at position 7 as well as oxo and ethyl groups at positions 4 and 1 respectively and a dioxolo ring fused at the 5 -  and 6 - positions .
an isotopically modified compound in which the abundance of a  ( 13 ) c isotope at one or more positions has been increased above that of the naturally occurring level .
any molecular entity in which the isotopic ratio of nuclides for at least one element deviates measurably from that occurring in nature .
a chemical compound that causes a substantial proportion of exposed people or animals to develop an allergic reaction in normal tissue after repeated exposure to the compound .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group ,  nad +  or nadp +  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of enoyl -  [ acyl - carrier - protein ]  reductase  ( nadh )  ,  ec 1 .3 .1 .9 .
an alpha - oxyketone that has a hydroxy group as the alpha - oxy moiety .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing two organyl groups .
any antimicrobial agent whose activity is dependent on the presence of calcium ions .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with a primary amine ;  formula rc ( =o ) nhr ( 1 )  .
a carboxamide resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxylic acid with a secondary amine ;  formula rc ( =o ) nhr ( 1 ) r ( 2 )  .
any polyunsaturated fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
any pathway inhibitor that inhibits the hedgehog signalling pathway .
an inhibitor of any of the glioma - associated oncogene  ( gli )  proteins .
a mitochondrial cytochrome - bc1 complex inhibitor that acts at the quinone 'outer'  ( qo )  binding site of the cytochrome - bc1 complex .
an organic amino compound that is a hemiaminal in which the hydrogen atom of the hydroxy group has been replaced by an organyl group .
a organic ion resulting from the deprotonation of the hydroxy group of any oxime .
an ammonium ion that is the conjugate acid of tigecycline ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
macrolides  ( macrocyclic lactones )  in which the macrocyclic ring contains more than one ester linkage .
a macropolylide which contains two ester linkages in one macrocyclic ring .
a macrolide in which the macrocyclic lactone ring includes an amide group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of mupirocin obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major microspecies at ph 7 .3 .
a secondary ammonium ion derived from spectinomycin by protonation of the secondary amino group located between the two alcoholic hydroxy groups .
any organic heterotricyclic compound whose core skeleton consists of a benzodioxin ring that is ortho - fused to a pyran ring .
any agent that induces nausea and vomiting .
any antiviral agent which inhibits the activity of coronaviruses .
tetracycline in which the hydroxy group at position 5 and the methyl group at position 6 are replaced by hydrogen ,  and with a dimethylamino substituent and an  ( n - tert - butylglycyl ) amino substituent at positions 7 and 9 ,  respectively .
a molecular entity that can transfer an electron to another molecular entity .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from hydrogen sulfide .
a molecular entity that can accept an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group from another molecular entity .
a choline that is the parent compound of the cholines class ,  consisting of ethanolamine having three methyl substituents attached to the amino function .
a simple monocarboxylic acid containing two carbons .
a large group of antibiotics isolated from various species of streptomyces and characterised by having a substituted phenoxazine ring linked to two cyclic heterodetic peptides .
aldehydic parent sugars  ( polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h ,  n  > = 2 )  and their intramolecular hemiacetals .
any alpha - amino acid having l - configuration at the alpha - carbon .
a primary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has either three hydrogen atoms attached to it or only one other carbon atom and two hydrogen atoms attached to it .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of formic acid .
a peptide containing ten or more amino acid residues .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxy group .
an aminopyrimidine that is pyrimidin - 2 - one having the amino group located at position 4 .
a monoatomic monoanion resulting from the addition of an electron to any halogen atom .
an azane that consists of a single nitrogen atom covelently bonded to three hydrogen atoms .
a sulfur hydride consisting of a single sulfur atom bonded to two hydrogen atoms .
the simplest member of the class of  benzoates that is the conjugate base of benzoic acid ,  comprising a benzoic acid core with a proton missing to give a charge of  - 1 .
a synthetic monocyclic beta - lactam antibiotic  ( monobactam )  ,  used primarily to treat infections caused by gram - negative bacteria .
a sulfur oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both oh groups of sulfuric acid .
a carbonyl group with two c - bound amine groups .
a divalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of both protons from phosphonic acid
an inorganic peroxide consisting of two hydroxy groups joined by a covalent oxygen - oxygen single bond .
a lipid containing phosphoric acid as a mono -  or di - ester .
the d - enantiomer of proline .
compounds having the structure rsr  ( r = / = h )  .
an aromatic ether that is phenol which is substituted at c - 5 by a chloro group and at c - 2 by a 2 , 4 - dichlorophenoxy group .
any member of the class of organooxygen compounds that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone or a lactol resulting from their intramolecular condensation  ( monosaccharides )  ;  substances derived from these by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom ;  and polymeric products arising by intermolecular acetal formation between two or more such molecules  ( disaccharides ,  polysaccharides and oligosaccharides )  .
amide derived from two or more amino carboxylic acid molecules  ( the same or different )  by formation of a covalent bond from the carbonyl carbon of one to the nitrogen atom of another with formal loss of water .
a ribonucleoside composed of a molecule of uracil attached to a ribofuranose moiety via a beta - n ( 1 )  - glycosidic bond .
a penicillanic acid compound having a  ( 6r )  - amino substituent .
a six - carbon aromatic annulene in which each carbon atom donates one of its two 2p electrons into a delocalised pi system .
a monohydroxybenzoic acid that is benzoic acid with a hydroxy group at the ortho position .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that consists of streptidine having a disaccharyl moiety attached at the 4 - position .
a compound in which a carbonyl group is bonded to two carbon atoms: r2c=o  ( neither r may be h )  .
a pyridinecarboxamide that is pyridine in which the hydrogen at position 3 is replaced by a carboxamide group .
pyrrolidine in which the pro - s hydrogen at position 2 is substituted by a carboxylic acid group .
an aldohexose used as a source of energy and metabolic intermediate .
a primary arylamine in which an amino functional group is substituted for one of the benzene hydrogens .
any member of the group of substituted penams containing two methyl substituents at position 2 ,  a carboxylate substituent at position 3 and a carboxamido group at position 6 .
a sulfur oxoanion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen sulfite  ( h2so3 )  .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid containing five carbon atoms .
a compound rc ( =o ) h ,  in which a carbonyl group is bonded to one hydrogen atom and to one r group .
a molecular entity that can undergo oxidation by the loss of hydrogen atom ( s )  .
a pseudohalide anion that is the conjugate base of hydrogen cyanide .
a carbohydrate that is an acyclic polyol having the general formula hoch2 [ ch ( oh )  ] nch2oh  ( formally derivable from an aldose by reduction of the carbonyl group )  .
the carbon oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from carbonic acid .
a common and naturally occurring pyrimidine nucleobase in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted with two oxo groups at positions 2 and 4 .
any d - aldose having a chain of six carbon atoms in the molecule .
a glucose with d - configuration .
a macrolide antibiotic that is tylonolide having mono -  and diglycosyl moieties attached to two of its hydroxy groups .
an organochlorine compound that is dichloro - substituted acetamide containing a nitrobenzene ring ,  an amide bond and two alcohol functions .
the primary alcohol that is the simplest aliphatic alcohol ,  comprising a methyl and an alcohol group .
a compound containing at least one carbon - halogen bond  ( where x is a halogen atom )  .
an alpha - amino acid that is alanine substituted at position 3 by a hydroxy group .
any of a group of aminoglycoside antibiotics produced by fermentation of some micromonospora spp .
a mononuclear parent hydride consisting of covalently bonded hydrogen and chlorine atoms .
a molecular entity that can transfer  (  \ "donate \ " )  an electron ,  a pair of electrons ,  an atom or a group to another molecular entity .
the d - enantiomer of glucitol  ( also known as d - sorbitol )  .
d - glucopyranose having alpha - configuration at the anomeric centre .
a halide anion formed when chlorine picks up an electron to form an an anion .
'lipids' is a loosely defined term for substances of biological origin that are soluble in nonpolar solvents .
any six - carbon monosaccharide which in its linear form contains either an aldehyde group at position 1  ( aldohexose )  or a ketone group at position 2  ( ketohexose )  .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a phenylacetamido group .
any nucleoside where the sugar component is d - ribose .
an alpha - amino acid that is pentanoic acid bearing two amino substituents at positions 2 and 5 .
that part of dna or rna that may be involved in pairing .
an acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula cnh2n + 2 ,  and therefore consisting entirely of hydrogen atoms and saturated carbon atoms .
the threo - diastereomer of 1 , 4 - dimercaptobutane - 2 , 3 - diol .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of hydrogenphosphate .
a compound having the structure rc#n ;  thus a c - substituted derivative of hydrocyanic acid ,  hc#n .
a one - carbon compound consisting of a methine group triple bonded to a nitrogen atom
a lactone having a six - membered lactone ring .
a cephalosporin compound having acetoxymethyl and  [ 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetyl ] amino side groups .
a mitochondrial respiratory - chain inhibitor that interferes with the action of atp synthase .
a semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic which ,  in addition to the methoxy group at the 7alpha position ,  has 2 - thienylacetamido and carbamoyloxymethyl side - groups .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to a nitrogen atom ,  thus creating a c - n bond .
a substance used to destroy pests of the subclass acari  ( mites and ticks )  .
compounds with the general formula rnhc ( =o ) ch3 .
an organic group formed by removing one or more hydroxy groups from an oxoacid that has the general structure rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  .
any of the naturally occurring ,  basic nitrogen compounds  ( mostly heterocyclic )  occurring mostly in the plant kingdom ,  but also found in bacteria ,  fungi ,  and animals .
a univalent group  - cnh2n + 1 derived from an alkane by removal of a hydrogen atom from any carbon atom .
an alcohol containing an amino functional group in addition to the alcohol - defining hydroxy group .
any  aromatic amine that is benzene carrying at least one amino substituent and its substituted derivatives .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the electron .
a class of macrocyclic lactams that consist of an aromatic  ( phenyl or naphthyl )  or quinonoid  ( benzoquinone or naphthoquinone )  moiety that is bridged by an aliphatic chain .
a substance that opposes oxidation or inhibits reactions brought about by dioxygen or peroxides .
a substance that destroys or inhibits replication of viruses .
a monocarboxylic acid amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an arene ring system .
a molecular entity having an available pair of electrons capable of forming a covalent bond with a hydron  ( bronsted base )  or with the vacant orbital of some other molecular entity  ( lewis base )  .
any benzenoid aromatic compound consisting of the benzene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
an organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring fused to an imidazole ring .
a monocarboxylic acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any benzoic acid .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that consists of benzene in which at least a single hydrogen has been substituted by a carboxy group .
benzenoid aromatic compounds containing two phenyl or substituted - phenyl groups which are joined together by a single bond .
a glycopeptide produced by the bacterium streptomyces verticillus .
an insecticide compound naturally occurring in plants .
a diol that is a butanediol or a derivative of a butanediol .
any ester of carbamic acid or its n - substituted derivatives .
the univalent carboacyl group formed by loss of  - oh from the carboxy group of carbamic acid .
any carbohydrate derivative that exhibits antibiotic activity .
an ec 4 .2 .1 .*  ( hydro - lyases )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of carbonic anhydrase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .1 )  .
a class of beta - lactam antibiotics differing from the penicillins in having a 6 - membered ,  rather than a 5 - membered ,  side ring .
a halogen molecular entity containing one or more atoms of chlorine .
any organochlorine compound containing a benzene ring which is substituted by one or more chlorines .
a quaternary ammonium ion based on the choline ion and its substituted derivatives thereof .
an organic molecule or ion  ( usually a metal ion )  that is required by an enzyme for its activity .
any constitutionally or isotopically distinct atom ,  molecule ,  ion ,  ion pair ,  radical ,  radical ion ,  complex ,  conformer etc . ,  identifiable as a separately distinguishable entity .
a metal sulfate compound having copper ( 2 +  )  as the metal ion .
salts and c - organyl derivatives of hydrogen cyanide ,  hc#n .
a polyol consisting of a cycloalkane containing at least three hydroxy groups ,  each attached to a different ring carbon atom .
a member of the class of oxazolidines that is isoxazoldin - 3 - one which is substituted at position 4 by an amino group .
a natural or synthetic compound having a sequence of amino and hydroxy carboxylic acid residues  ( usually alpha - amino and alpha - hydroxy acids )  ,  commonly but not necessarily regularly alternating .
any polyamine that contains two amino groups .
an azole that is either one of a pair of heterocyclic organic compounds comprising three carbon atoms and two nitrogen atoms arranged in a ring .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes carrying two chloro groups at unspecified positions .
any organic heteromonocyclic compound with a structure based on a dihydropyrrole .
a compound that contains two hydroxy groups ,  generally assumed to be ,  but not necessarily ,  alcoholic .
any terpenoid derived from a diterpene .
any substance which when absorbed into a living organism may modify one or more of its functions .
a compound or agent that combines with an enzyme in such a manner as to prevent the normal substrate - enzyme combination and the catalytic reaction .
an organofluorine compound that consists of an amino acid substituted by a fluoro group .
amides with the general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) ncho  ( r ( 1 )  and r ( 2 )  can be h )  .
a substance used to destroy fungal pests .
compounds containing at least one furan ring .
an l - alpha - amino acid which is l - glutamic acid or any of the essential amino acids biosynthesised from it  ( glutamine ,  proline and arginine )  .
any carbohydrate derivative that consists of glycan moieties covalently attached to the side chains of the amino acid residues that constitute the peptide .
a glycosyl compound resulting from the attachment of a glycosyl group to a non - acyl group ro -  ,  rs -  ,  rse -  ,  etc .
a chemical entity is a physical entity of interest in chemistry including molecular entities ,  parts thereof ,  and chemical substances .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biological context .
a defined linked collection of atoms or a single atom within a molecular entity .
any organonitrogen compound containing a carbamimidamido  ( guanidino )  group .
any non - proteinogenic amino acid carrying at least one halo group .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of carbon and at least of one other element .
a heterodetic cyclic peptide is a peptide consisting only of amino - acid residues ,  but in which the linkages forming the ring are not solely peptide bonds ;  one or more is an isopeptide ,  disulfide ,  ester ,  or other bond .
a homodetic cyclic peptide is a cyclic peptide in which the ring consists solely of amino - acid residues in peptide linkages .
originally referring to an endogenous compound that is formed in specialized organ or group of cells and carried to another organ or group of cells ,  in the same organism ,  upon which it has a specific regulatory function ,  the term is now commonly used to include non - endogenous ,  semi - synthetic and fully synthetic analogues of such compounds .
an imidazolidinone with oxo groups at position 2 and 4 .
a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only .
an oxoanion resulting from the removal of a proton from the hydroxy group of any hydroxamic acid .
a compound ,  rke ( =o ) lnhoh ,  derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh )   ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing  - oh with  - nhoh ,  and derivatives thereof .
hydroxides are chemical compounds containing a hydroxy group or salts containing hydroxide  ( oh (  -  )  )  .
any fatty acid carrying one or more hydroxy substituents .
any carboxylic acid with at least one hydroxy group .
any benzoate derivative carrying a single carboxylate group and at least one hydroxy substituent .
any benzoic acid carrying one or more phenolic hydroxy groups on the benzene ring .
an alpha - hydroxy ketone in which the carbonyl group and the hydroxy group are linked by a carbon bearing one hydrogen and one organyl group .
a five - membered organic heterocycle containing two nitrogen atoms at positions 1 and 3 ,  or any of its derivatives ;  compounds containing an imidazole skeleton .
any compound containing an indole skeleton .
a compound which contains oxygen ,  at least one other element ,  and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a molecular entity that contains no carbon .
compounds of structure roor' in which r and r' are inorganic groups .
any cyclohexane - 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 - hexol .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill members of the class insecta .
chemical element with atomic number 53 .
a salt is an assembly of cations and anions .
a compound which can carry specific ions through membranes of cells or organelles .
a molecular entity having a net electric charge .
any lipid formally derived from isoprene  ( 2 - methylbuta - 1 , 3 - diene )  ,  the skeleton of which can generally be discerned in repeated occurrence in the molecule .
cyclic amides of amino carboxylic acids ,  having a 1 - azacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or analogues having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
any cyclic carboxylic ester containing a 1 - oxacycloalkan - 2 - one structure ,  or an analogue having unsaturation or heteroatoms replacing one or more carbon atoms of the ring .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members which exhibits antibiotic activity .
a macrocyclic lactone with a ring of twelve or more members derived from a polyketide .
a glycol that is butane - 2 , 3 - diol in which a hydrogen from each of the methyl groups is replaced by a thiol group .
any intermediate or product resulting from metabolism .
any carboxylic ester resulting from the formal condensation of a carboxy group with methanol .
any polyatomic entity that is an electrically neutral entity consisting of more than one atom .
an oxoacid containing a single carboxy group .
a hydroxybenzoate carrying a single hydroxy substituent at unspecified position .
any hydroxybenzoic acid having a single phenolic hydroxy substituent on the benzene ring .
an agent that increases the frequency of mutations above the normal background level ,  usually by interacting directly with dna and causing it damage ,  including base substitution .
poisonous substance produced by fungi .
any benzenoid aromatic compound having a skeleton composed of two ortho - fused benzene rings .
a polycyclic aromatic ketone metabolite of naphthalene .
a substance used to destroy pests of the phylum nematoda  ( roundworms )  .
an endogenous compound that is used to transmit information across the synapse between a neuron and another cell .
a member of the class of pyridines that is a substituted pyridine in which at least one of the substituents is a carboxamide or n - substituted caraboxamide group .
any of the 26 - membered ring macrolides produced by streptomyces species that can be toxic to other organisms through their ability to inhibit mitochondrial membrane - bound atp synthases .
any organic ion with a net negative charge .
any organic ion with a net positive charge .
an organooxygen compound with formula ror ,  where r is not hydrogen .
compounds of the general formula so3hor where r is an organyl group
an  alcohol derived from an aliphatic compound .
an organophosphorus compound is formally a compound containing at least one carbon - phosphorus bond ,  but the term is often extended to include esters and thioesters .
a solute used by a cell under water stress to maintain cell volume .
an oxide is a chemical compound of oxygen with other chemical elements .
compounds of structure r2c=noh derived from condensation of aldehydes or ketones with hydroxylamine .
any compound that has an aldehydic or ketonic group as well as a carboxylic acid group in the same molecule .
any fatty acid anion containing at least one c - c unsaturated bond ;  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
a quinone in which the two oxo groups of the quinone are located para to each other on the 6 - membered quinonoid ring .
compounds of structure roor' .
strictly ,  a substance intended to kill pests .
any organic aromatic compound with a structure based on a phenylpropane skeleton .
salts and esters of phosphoric and oligophosphoric acids and their chalcogen analogues .
hp ( =o )  ( oh ) 2   ( phosphonic acid )  and its p - substituted derivatives .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of one oxo and three hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central phosphorus atom .
a member of the class of benzoic acids in that consists of benzene substituted by two carboxy groups .
a toxin made by a plant that acts against an organism attacking it .
a chemical ,  natural or artificial ,  that can affect the rate of growth of a plant .
any amino acid whose side chain is capable of forming one or more hydrogen bonds .
a family of antibiotics containing a conjugated polyene moiety ,  usuallly isolated from some species of streptomyces .
natural and synthetic compounds containing alternating carbonyl and methylene groups  ( 'beta - polyketones' )  ,  biogenetically derived from repeated condensation of acetyl coenzyme a  ( via malonyl coenzyme a )  ,  and usually the compounds derived from them by further condensations ,  etc .
a compound that contains two or more hydroxy groups .
members of the class of phenols that contain 2 or more benzene rings each of which is substituted by at least one hydroxy group .
any member of the class of  prenols possessing the general formula h -  [ ch2c ( me ) =chch2 ] noh in which the carbon skeleton is composed of more than one isoprene units .
any fatty acid containing more than one double bond .
any alkali metal salt having potassium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
any alcohol possessing the general formula h -  [ ch2c ( me ) =chch2 ] noh in which the carbon skeleton is composed of one or more isoprene units  ( biogenetic precursors of the isoprenoids )  .
an alpha - amino acid that is pyrrolidine bearing a carboxy substituent at position 2 .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of proline at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of proline by a heteroatom .
derivatives of oxoacids rne ( =o ) oh in which the hydroxy group is replaced by an amino group and the oxo group is replaced by =nr .
an amino cyclitol glycoside that is kanamycin a acylated at the n - 1 position by a 4 - amino - 2 - hydroxybutyryl group .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is attached to a pyridine  ( or substituted pyridine )  ring .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a pyridine skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a nucleobase whose skeleton is derived from pyrimidine .
an azole that includes only one n atom and no other heteroatom as a part of the aromatic skeleton .
any aromatic carboxylic acid that contains a quinoline moiety that is substituted by one carboxy substituent .
a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds each of which contains a benzene ring ortho fused to carbons 2 and 3 of a pyridine ring .
molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen .
any compound with a 1 , 3 , 5 - triazine skeleton ,  in which nitrogen atoms replace carbon at positions 1 ,  3 and 5 of the core benzene ring structure .
any fatty acid containing no carbon to carbon multiple bonds .
an amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of serine at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of serine by a heteroatom .
any terpenoid derived from a sesquiterpene .
an aliphatic monocarboxylic acid with a chain length of less than c6 .
an inorganic chloride salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the counterion .
any alkali metal salt having sodium ( 1 +  )  as the cation .
sphingolipids are a complex family of compounds that share a common structural feature ,  a sphingoid base backbone .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a 2 - amino - 2 -  ( 4 - hydroxyphenyl ) acetamido group .
any olefinic compound characterised by a 1 , 2 - diphenylethylene backbone .
an ester of an alcohol and sulfuric acid .
a macrolide antibiotic used to treat potentially life - threatening fungal infections .
salts and esters of sulfuric acid
any sulfur molecular entity that involves either covalently bonded or anionic sulfur .
a sulfur oxoacid that consists of two oxo and two hydroxy groups joined covalently to a central sulfur atom .
any isoprenoid that is a natural product or related compound formally derived from isoprene units .
a tertiary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has three other carbon atoms attached to it .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes carrying four chloro groups at unspecified positions .
a subclass of polyketides having an octahydrotetracene - 2 - carboxamide skeleton ,  substituted with many hydroxy and other groups .
any oxacycle having an oxolane  ( tetrahydrofuran )  skeleton .
an ester in which one or both oxygens of an ester group have been replaced by divalent sulfur .
an organic tricyclic compound in which at least one of the rings of the tricyclic skeleton contains one or more heteroatoms .
poisonous substance produced by a biological organism such as a microbe ,  animal or plant .
any nutrient required in small quantities by organisms throughout their life in order to orchestrate a range of physiological functions .
an element whose atom has an incomplete d sub - shell ,  or which can give rise to cations with an incomplete d sub - shell .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes carrying three chloro substituents at unspecified positions .
a chemical compound containing three hydroxy groups .
a univalent carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
any fatty acid containing at least one c=c or c#c bond .
a fatty acid which has a chain length greater than c22 .
any plant metabolite that is found naturally as a component of a volatile oil .
a neutral compound having formal unit electrical charges of opposite sign on non - adjacent atoms .
an amino cyclitol that is scyllo - inositol in which the hydroxy groups at positions 1 and 3 are replaced by guanidino groups .
a  saturated organic heteromonocyclic parent that is a three - membered heterocycle of two carbon atoms and one oxygen atom .
an aminobenzoic acid that is salicylic acid substituted by an amino group at position 4 .
a nine - membered bis - lactone having methyl substituents at the 2 -  and 6 - positions ,  an n - hexyl substituent at the 8 - position ,  an acyloxy substituent at the 7 - position and an aroylamido substituent at the 3 - position .
a dicarboximide that is 4 -  ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) piperidine - 2 , 6 - dione in which one of the hydrogens attached to the carbon  bearing the hydroxy group is replaced by a 3 , 5 - dimethyl - 2 - oxocyclohexyl group .
a member of the class of tetracyclines with formula c22h23cln2o8 isolated from streptomyces aureofaciens .
a pyranoindolizinoquinoline that is pyrano [ 3' , 4':6 , 7 ] indolizino [ 1 , 2 - b ] quinoline which is substituted by oxo groups at positions 3 and 14 ,  and by an ethyl group and a hydroxy group at position 4  ( the s enantiomer )  .
a tetracycline used for treatment of infections caused by a variety of gram positive and gram negative microorganisms including mycoplasma pneumoniae ,  pasteurella pestis ,  escherichia coli ,  haemophilus influenzae  ( respiratory infections )  ,  and diplococcus pneumoniae .
a surfactant  ( or a mixture containing one or more surfactants )  having cleaning properties in dilute solutions .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is benzimidazole in which the hydrogen at position 2 is replaced by an amino group .
a stilbenol that is stilbene in which the phenyl groups are substituted at positions 3 ,  5 ,  and 4' by hydroxy groups .
a broad - spectrum polyketide antibiotic produced by the streptomyces genus of actinobacteria .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic that contains a beta - lactam ring .
an amino cyclitol consisting of scyllo - inositol with the hydroxy groups at positions 1 and 3 replaced by unsubstituted amino groups .
a complex glycopeptide from streptomyces orientalis .
a member of the class of rifamycins that is a a semisynthetic antibiotic derived from amycolatopsis rifamycinica  ( previously known as amycolatopsis mediterranei and streptomyces mediterranei ) 
a member of the class of rotenones that consists of 1 , 2 , 12 , 12a - tetrahydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] furo [ 2 , 3 - h ] chromen - 6 ( 6ah )  - one substituted at position 2 by a prop - 1 - en - 2 - yl group and at positions 8 and 9 by methoxy groups  ( the 2r , 6as , 12as - isomer )  .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of dichloroacetic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid amide that is urea where one of the amino groups has been replaced with hydrazine .
a coumarin - derived antibiotic obtained from streptomyces niveus .
a twelve - membered cyclodepsipeptide composed of three repeating d - alpha - hydroxyisovaleryl - d - valyl - l - lactoyl - l - valyl units joined in sequence .
a farnesane sesquiterpenoid that is dodeca - 2 , 6 , 10 - triene substituted by methyl groups at positions 3 ,  7 and 11 and a hydroxy group at position 1 .
a one - carbon compound that is ammonia in which one of the hydrogens is replaced by a carboxy group .
a mixture of at least nine closely related homodetic cyclic peptides produced by bacillus subtilis and b . licheniformis ,  which is particularly active against gram - positive bacteria .
the l - enantiomer of glucitol .
a straight - chain alkane with 12 carbon atoms .
a amino cyclitol glycoside that is kanamycin b lacking the 3 - hydroxy substituent from the 2 , 6 - diaminoglucose ring .
a c24 straight - chain saturated fatty acid .
the conjugate base of a fatty acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of the corresponding fatty acid .
an imidazolidine - 2 , 4 - dione in which the nitrogen at position 1 is substituted by an n -  ( isopropyl ) carboxamide group while that at position 3 is substituted by a 3 , 5 - dichlorophenyl group .
a phosphonic acid having an  ( r , s )  - 1 , 2 - epoxypropyl group attached to phosphorus .
an onium cation obtained by protonation of ammonia .
any sugar having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
a carboxylic acid dianion obtained by deprotonation of both carboxy groups of any dicarboxylic acid .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a 2 - amino - 2 - phenylacetamido group .
a third - generation cephalosporin compound having 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetylamino and  [  ( 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 3 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl side - groups .
a steroid antibiotic that is isolated from the fermentation broth of fusidium coccineum .
an ion of copper carrying a double positive charge .
the conjugate base formed when the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from sodium .
a monoatomic monocation obtained from potassium .
an organosulfur compound in which a thiol group ,   - sh ,  is attached to a carbon atom of any aliphatic or aromatic moiety .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of phosphorous acid .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of a proton from two of the hydroxy groups of phosphorous acid .
a divalent inorganic anion resulting from the removal of two protons from ammonia .
a carboxamide derived from a monocarboxylic acid .
a macrolide antibiotic useful for the treatment of bacterial infections .
a complex mixture of related natural products isolated from the fermentation broth of a strain of actinoplanes teichomyceticus comprising five major components  ( teicoplanin a2 - 1 through a2 - 5 )  ,  a hydrolysis component  ( teicoplanin a3 - 1 )  ,  and four minor components  ( teicoplanin rs - 1 through rs - 4 )  .
a mixture of antiviral nucleoside antibiotics produced by streptomyces lysosuperificus .
a 16 - membererd macrolide that is the aglycone of the antibiotic 5 - o - beta - d - mycaminosyltylactone .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of acetic acid .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is the methyl ester of   [ 1 -  ( butylcarbamoyl )  - 1h - benzimidazol - 2 - yl ] carbamic acid .
an alkane - alpha , omega - diamine in which the alkane is ethane .
a compound comprising a benzene ring core carrying a carboxylic acid substituent .
the simplest carboxylic acid ,  containing a single carbon .
a monohydroxybenzoate that is the conjugate base of salicylic acid .
a benzenedicarboxylic acid that is benzene substituted by carboxy groups at position 1 and 3 .
a dicarboxylic acid monoanion that is the conjugate base of isophthalic acid .
a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom .
a short - chain fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of valeric acid ;  present in ester form as component of many steroid - based pharmaceuticals .
a straight - chain saturated fatty acid anion that is the conjugate base of tetracosanoic acid  ( lignoceric acid )  ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxy group .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of r -  and s - bifonazole .
any organic amino compound that is a derivative of  ethylenediamine .
a sulfonamide consisting of pyrimidine having methoxy substituents at the 2 -  and 6 - positions and a 4 - aminobenzenesulfonamido group at the 4 - position .
a pyridinemonocarboxylate that is the conjugate base of nicotinic acid ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a metal chloride salt with a k (  +  )  counterion .
an acene that consists of four ortho - fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of serine .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of serine .
an optically active form of prolinate having l - configuration .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
an optically active form of prolinium having l - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinate having d - configuration .
an optically active form of prolinium having d - configuration .
an alpha - amino - acid anion that is the conjugate base of proline ,  arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group .
an alpha - amino - acid cation that is the conjugate acid of proline ,  arising from protonation of the amino group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by a hydrocarbyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by hydrocarbyl groups .
any cyclic ether in which the oxygen atom forms part of a 3 - membered ring .
an amide is a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
any micronutrient that is an organic compound .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of mycobacterium tuberculosis and is used in the treatment of tuberculosis .
intended use of the molecular entity or part thereof by humans .
a particle not known to have substructure .
a monoatomic entity is a molecular entity consisting of a single atom .
an assembly consisting of a central atom  ( usually metallic )  to which is attached a surrounding array of other groups of atoms  ( ligands )  .
an organic fundamental parent is a structure used as a basis for substitutive names in organic nomenclature ,  containing ,  in addition to one or more hydrogen atoms ,  a single atom of an element ,  a number of atoms  ( alike or different )  linked together to form an unbranched chain ,  a monocyclic or polycyclic ring system ,  or a ring assembly or ring / chain system .
any substituent group which does not contain carbon .
any substituent group or skeleton containing carbon .
a univalent group formed by removing a hydrogen atom from a hydrocarbon .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having one free valence at a carbon atom .
a chemical entity constituting the smallest component of an element having the chemical properties of the element .
a nucleus is the positively charged central portion of an atom ,  excluding the orbital electrons .
heavy nuclear particle: proton or neutron .
a derivative of an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which an acidic hydroxy group has been replaced by an amino or substituted amino group .
a derivative of two oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  in which two acyl groups are attached to the amino or substituted amino group .
a molecular entity all atoms of which have the same atomic number .
an organosulfur compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - sulfur bond .
an anion consisting of more than one atom .
a substance that kills or slows the growth of microorganisms ,  including bacteria ,  viruses ,  fungi and protozoans .
a substance  ( or active part thereof )  that kills or slows the growth of bacteria .
a nutrient is a food component that an organism uses to survive and grow .
a heteroorganic entity is an organic molecular entity in which carbon atoms or organic groups are bonded directly to one or more heteroatoms .
an agrochemical is a substance that is used in agriculture or horticulture .
a fertilizer is any substance that is added to soil or water to assist the growth of plants .
an energy - rich substance that can be transformed with release of usable energy .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an alkali metal .
any p - block element atom that is in group 15 of the periodic table: nitrogen ,  phosphorus ,  arsenic ,  antimony and bismuth .
a p - block molecular entity containing any pnictogen .
any p - block element belonging to the group 16 family of the periodic table .
any p - block molecular entity containing a chalcogen .
an ester of a carboxylic acid ,  r ( 1 ) c ( =o ) or ( 2 )  ,  where r ( 1 )  = h or organyl and r ( 2 )  = organyl .
an atom belonging to one of the main groups  ( found in the s -  and p -  blocks )  of the periodic table .
a group derived from an arene by removal of a hydrogen atom from a ring carbon atom .
a hydracid is a compound which contains hydrogen that is not bound to oxygen ,  and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion ( s )   ( hydrons )  .
a pnictogen oxoacid which contains phosphorus and oxygen ,  at least one hydrogen atom bound to oxygen ,  and forms an ion by the loss of one or more protons .
a monovalent inorganic anion obtained by deprotonation of one of the two oh groups in phosphonic acid .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a transition element .
an atom of an element that exhibits typical metallic properties ,  being typically shiny ,  with high electrical and thermal conductivity .
the sulfur oxoanion formed by deprotonation of sulfonic acid .
an organic derivative of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon .
an organic anion obtained by deprotonation of the sufonate group ( s )  of any organosulfonic acid .
organic derivatives of sulfonic acid in which the sulfo group is linked directly to carbon of an aryl group .
an amino - acid anion obtained by deprotonation of any alpha - amino acid .
any main group element atom belonging to the p - block of the periodic table .
any benzenediol in which the two hydroxy groups are meta to one another .
a carbon oxoacid acid carrying at least one  - c ( =o ) oh group and having the structure rc ( =o ) oh ,  where r is any any monovalent functional group .
a molecular entity containing one or more atoms from any of groups 1 ,  2 ,  13 ,  14 ,  15 ,  16 ,  17 ,  and 18 of the periodic table .
any molecule that consists of a series of atoms joined together to form a ring .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of the same element only .
a homocyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a compound having one atom as the only common member of two rings .
a molecule that features two fused rings .
a polycyclic compound in which two rings have two ,  and only two ,  atoms in common .
acyclic and cyclic hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon double bonds ,  apart from the formal ones in aromatic compounds .
acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbons having one or more carbon - carbon double bond .
any acyclic or cyclic ,  saturated or unsaturated carbon compound ,  excluding aromatic compounds .
a cyclically conjugated molecular entity with a stability  ( due to delocalization )  significantly greater than that of a hypothetical localized structure  ( e .g .
any monocyclic or polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a mancude monocyclic hydrocarbon without side chains of the general formula cnhn  ( n is an even number )  or cnhn + 1  ( n is an odd number )  .
a polycyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one non - carbon atom .
a bicyclic compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one skeletal heteroatom .
an s - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of an s - block element .
a main group molecular entity that contains one or more atoms of a p - block element .
a d - block molecular entity is a molecular entity containing one or more atoms of a d - block element .
hydrides are chemical compounds of hydrogen with other chemical elements .
a cation consisting of more than one atom .
an amino acid in which the amino group is located on the carbon atom at the position alpha to the carboxy group .
when two or more amino acids combine to form a peptide ,  the elements of water are removed ,  and what remains of each amino acid is called an amino - acid residue .
a carboxylic acid containing one or more amino groups .
an organic compound having at least one hydroxy group attached to a carbon atom .
any organic molecule that consists of atoms connected in the form of a ring .
a heterocyclic compound formally derived from an arene by replacement of one or more methine  (  - c= )  and / or vinylene  (  - ch=ch -  )  groups by trivalent or divalent heteroatoms ,  respectively ,  in such a way as to maintain the continuous pi - electron system characteristic of aromatic systems and a number of out - of - plane pi - electrons corresponding to the hueckel rule  ( 4n + 2 )  .
an n - glycosyl compound that has both a nucleobase ,  normally adenine ,  guanine ,  xanthine ,  thymine ,  cytosine or uracil ,  and either a ribose or deoxyribose as functional parents .
a macromolecule is a molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
a monocyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon .
organic aromatic compounds having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a benzene or other arene ring .
an amino acid whose structure includes an aromatic ring .
any carboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is directly bonded to an aromatic ring .
an amino compound in which the amino group is linked directly to an aromatic system .
a substance used in a chemical reaction to detect ,  measure ,  examine ,  or produce other substances .
a hexose with a  ( potential )  aldehyde group at one end .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles that is 2 - aminobenzimidazole in which the primary amino group is substituted by a methoxycarbonyl group .
a penicillin antibiotic having a 6beta - 2 - carboxy - 2 - phenylacetamido side - chain .
a phenylenediamine in which the two amino groups are ortho to each other .
an anilide obtained by formal condensation of the amino group of aniline with the carboxy group of 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dihydro - 1 , 4 - oxathiine - 3 - carboxylic acid .
a dicarboximide that is 3a , 4 , 7 , 7a - tetrahydrophthalimide in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a trichloromethyl group .
an indicator dye that is blue - violet at ph 3 .0 and red at ph 5 .0 .
a cephalosporin bearing chloro and  ( r )  - 2 - amino - 2 - phenylacetamido groups at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
a semi - synthetic second - generation cephamycin antibiotic with  [  ( 1 - methyl - 1h - tetrazol - 5 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl ,  methoxy and  { [ 4 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 - carboxy - 2 - oxoethylidene )  - 1 , 3 - dithietan - 2 - yl ] carbonyl}amino groups at the 3 ,  7alpha ,  and 7beta positions ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
any of the glycopeptides whose structure consists of teicoplanin a3 - 1 in which the hydroxy group of the di ( aryloxy )  - substituted phenol moiety has been converted to the corresponding 2 - acylamino - 2 - deoxy - beta - d - glucoside .
a teicoplanin a2 that has  ( 4z )  - dec - 4 - enoyl as the variable n - acyl group .
a teicoplanin a2 that has decanoyl as the variable n - acyl group .
a teicoplanin a2 that has 8 - methyldecanoyl as the variable n - acyl group .
a teicoplanin a2 that has 9 - methyldecanoyl as the variable n - acyl group .
a glycopeptide consisting of a macropolycyclic heptapeptide in which a phenolic hydroxy group has been converted to its alpha - d - mannoside while a secondary alcohol group has been converted to the corresponding 2 - acetamido - 2 - deoxy - beta - d - glucoside .
a member of the class of thioureas that is the dimethyl ester of  ( 1 , 2 - phenylenedicarbamothioyl ) biscarbamic acid .
a third - generation cephalosporin antibiotic with methoxymethyl and  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetamino substituents at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
the 1 -  [  ( isopropoxycarbonyl ) oxy ] ethyl  ( proxetil )  ester prodrug of cefpodoxime .
a third - generation cephalosporin antibiotic bearing pyridinium - 1 - ylmethyl and { [  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 - { [  ( 2 - carboxypropan - 2 - yl ) oxy ] imino}acetamido groups at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
saturated acyclic nitrogen hydrides having the general formula nnhn + 2 .
a 3 -  ( carbamoyloxymethyl ) cephalosporin compound having a 7 -  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( furan - 2 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetamido side chain .
a hydrocarbon of biological origin having carbon skeleton formally derived from isoprene  [ ch2=c ( ch3 ) ch=ch2 ]  .
a c15 terpene .
a c20 terpene .
a substance which lowers the surface tension of the medium in which it is dissolved ,  and / or the interfacial tension with other phases ,  and ,  accordingly ,  is positively adsorbed at the liquid / vapour and / or at other interfaces .
a depsipeptide in which the amino and hydroxy carboxylic acid residues are connected in a ring .
a substance which is structurally similar to a metabolite but which competes with it or replaces it ,  and so prevents or reduces its normal utilization .
a substance that diminishes the rate of a chemical reaction .
a substance that increases the rate of a reaction without modifying the overall standard gibbs energy change in the reaction .
the zwitterionic form of an amino acid having a negatively charged carboxyl group and a positively charged amino group .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amnio group of serine .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which all four of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent  ( usually organyl )  groups .
a derivative of ammonium ,  nh4 (  +  )  ,  in which one  ( or more )  of the hydrogens bonded to the nitrogen have been replaced with univalent organyl groups .
a glycosyl compound arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and a s atom bound to a carbon atom ,  thus creating a c - s bond .
compounds  ( nh4 (  +  )  ) y (  -  )  and derivatives ,  in which one or more of the hydrogens bonded to nitrogen have been replaced with univalent groups .
cations of structure r2c=n (  +  ) r2 .
a polyclic compound in which all of the ring members are carbon atoms .
a polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement .
a semisynthetic first - generation cephalosporin antibiotic having methyl and beta -  ( 2r )  - 2 - amino - 2 - phenylacetamido groups at the 3 -  and 7 -  of the cephem skeleton ,  respectively .
any of naturally occurring compounds and synthetic analogues ,  based on the cyclopenta [ a ] phenanthrene carbon skeleton ,  partially or completely hydrogenated ;  there are usually methyl groups at c - 10 and c - 13 ,  and often an alkyl group at c - 17 .
any heteroorganic entity containing at least one carbon - nitrogen bond .
an imide in which the two acyl substituents on nitrogen are carboacyl groups .
an amide of a sulfonic acid rs ( =o ) 2nr'2 .
compounds having the structure rc ( =nr ) nr2 .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing  - oh  by  - nrnr2  ( r groups are commonly h )  .
a hydrazide consisting of hydrazine carrying one or more carboacyl groups .
any aliphatic monocarboxylic acid derived from or contained in esterified form in an animal or vegetable fat ,  oil or wax .
parent monosaccharides are polyhydroxy aldehydes h [ ch ( oh )  ] nc ( =o ) h or polyhydroxy ketones h -  [ choh ] n - c ( =o )  [ choh ] m - h with three or more carbon atoms .
an oxoanion is an anion derived from an oxoacid by loss of hydron ( s )  bound to oxygen .
a primary diamine is a compound derived from a hydrocarbon by replacing two hydrogen atoms by amino groups .
a primary diamine that is ethane or a higher alkane in which a hydrogen of each of the terminal methyl groups has been replaced by an amino group .
any glucoside in which the glycoside group is derived from d - glucose .
a substance used in the prophylaxis or therapy of infectious diseases .
a substance used to treat or prevent parasitic infections .
substance intended to kill parasitic worms  ( helminths )  .
a substance used in the treatment or control of nematode infestations .
a class of drugs producing both physiological and psychological effects through a variety of mechanisms involving the central nervous system .
a substance that reduces or suppresses inflammation .
an anti - inflammatory drug that is not a steroid .
a loosely defined group of drugs that tend to reduce the activity of the central nervous system .
any fluoroarene that is a benzene or a substituted benzene carrying at least one fluoro group .
a compound which inhibits or antagonises the biosynthesis or actions of androgens .
an agent that promotes the excretion of urine through its effects on kidney function .
the 5alpha - stereoisomer of cholestane .
a drug which lowers the blood glucose level .
a drug that affects the rate or intensity of cardiac contraction ,  blood vessel diameter or blood volume .
any molecular entity that consists of a ring having  ( formally )  the maximum number of noncumulative double bonds .
a negative ion consisting solely of carbon and oxygen  atoms ,  and therefore having the general formula cxoy ( n -  )  for some integers x ,  y and n .
a substance that inhibits or prevents the proliferation of neoplasms .
a food additive that is used to added improve the taste or odour of a food .
any ether in which the oxygen is attached to at least one aryl substituent .
a drug used to cause dilation of the blood vessels .
a drug used to prevent seizures or reduce their severity .
an ec 3 .5 .2 .*  ( non - peptide cyclic amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of beta - lactamase  ( ec 3 .5 .2 .6 )  .
a lactam in which the amide bond is contained within a four - membered ring ,  which includes the amide nitrogen and the carbonyl carbon .
any drug used in the treatment of acute or chronic vascular hypertension regardless of pharmacological mechanism .
a substance used to treat hyperlipidemia  ( an excess of lipids in the blood )  .
a secondary alcohol is a compound in which a hydroxy group ,   - oh ,  is attached to a saturated carbon atom which has two other carbon atoms attached to it .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains four n atoms and one c atom .
any carboxylic acid containing two carboxy groups .
any dicarboxylic acid anion that is a monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of only one of the carboxy groups of the dicarboxylic acid .
a compound formally derived from an oxoacid rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l  >  0 )  and an alcohol ,  phenol ,  heteroarenol ,  or enol by linking with formal loss of water from an acidic hydroxy group of the former and a hydroxy group of the latter .
a xenobiotic  ( greek ,  xenos  \ "foreign \ " ;  bios  \ "life \ " )  is a compound that is foreign to a living organism .
an agent that suppresses immune function by one of several mechanisms of action .
a compound having a nitro group ,   - no2  ( free valence on nitrogen )  ,  which may be attached to carbon ,  nitrogen  ( as in nitramines )  ,  or oxygen  ( as in nitrates )  ,  among other elements  ( in the absence of specification ,  c - nitro compounds are usually implied )  .
a nitro compound having the nitro group  (  - no2 )  attached to a carbon atom .
an  antimicrobial agent that destroys fungi by suppressing their ability to grow or reproduce .
a quinolinemonocarboxylic acid that is 1 , 4 - dihydroquinoline - 3 - carboxylic acid substituted by an oxo group at position 4 ,  a fluoro group at position 6 ,  a cyclopropyl group at position 1 and a 4 - ethylpiperazin - 1 - yl group at position 7 .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains three n atoms and two c atoms .
a carboxylic acid anion formed when the carboxy group of a monocarboxylic acid is deprotonated .
a phosphorus oxoanion that is the conjugate base of phosphoric acid .
sphinganine ,  its homologs and stereoisomers ,  and the hydroxy and unsaturated derivatives of these compounds .
an azole based on a five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton containing one n and one o atom .
a substance that suppresses mycobacterium leprae ,  ameliorates the clinical manifestations of leprosy ,  and / or reduces the incidence and severity of leprous reactions .
any fatty acid in which the parent hydrocarbon chain has one or more alkyl substituents ;  a common component in animal and bacterial lipids .
any antimicrobial drug which is used to treat or prevent protozoal infections .
a drug used to treat rheumatoid arthritis .
an organosulfur compound having the structure rs ( =o ) 2r  ( r = / = h )  .
a compound or agent that combines with lipoxygenase and thereby prevents its substrate - enzyme combination with arachidonic acid and the formation of the icosanoid products hydroxyicosatetraenoic acid and various leukotrienes .
a homodetic cyclic peptide consisting of  ( 4r )  - 2 -  [  ( 1s , 2s )  - 1 - amino - 2 - methylbutyl ]  - 4 , 5 - dihydro - 1 , 3 - thiazole - 4 - carboxylic acid attached head - to - tail to l - leucyl , d - glutamyl ,  l - lysyl ,  d - ornityl ,  l - isoleucyl ,  d - phenylalanyl ,  l - histidyl .
any monocarboxylic acid which also contains a separate  ( alcoholic or phenolic )  hydroxy substituent .
any monocarboxylic acid having at least one additional oxo functional group .
any carboxylic acid anion containing at least one oxo group .
a steroid ester obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with the 3 - hydroxy group of a sterol .
a substance used for its pharmacological action on any aspect of neurotransmitter systems .
natural and synthetic antibiotics containing the 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptan - 7 - one structure ,  generally assumed to have the 5r configuration unless otherwise specified .
any  stilbenoid with at least one phenolic group .
a drug used to treat or prevent microbial infections .
a drug used to treat or prevent bacterial infections .
esters of benzoic acid or substituted benzoic acids .
any monocarboxylic acid anion carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
compounds having a fully conjugated cyclic dione structure ,  such as that of benzoquinones ,  derived from aromatic compounds by conversion of an even number of  - ch= groups into  - c ( =o )  -  groups with any necessary rearrangement of double bonds  ( polycyclic and heterocyclic analogues are included )  .
a compound in which two monosaccharides are joined by a glycosidic bond .
a drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by protozoal organisms belonging to the suborder trypanosomatida .
lepton is a fermion that does not experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
baryon is a fermion that does experience the strong force  ( strong interaction )  .
particle of half - integer spin quantum number following fermi - dirac statistics .
a particle smaller than an atom .
a subatomic particle known to have substructure  ( i .e .
hadron is a subatomic particle which experiences the strong force .
a nucleus or any of its constituents in any of their energy states .
any molecular entity consisting of more than one atom .
an ion consisting of more than one atom .
an organochlorine compound comprising acetic acid carrying two chloro substituents at the 2 - position .
a dinitrile that is benzene - 1 , 3 - dicarbonitrile substituted by four chloro groups .
any compound containing the carbonyl group ,  c=o .
organic compounds containing an oxygen atom ,  =o ,  doubly bonded to carbon or another element .
a mancude organic heterobicyclic parent that is a heterocyclic organic compound comprising fused benzene and imidazole rings .
any one of eight organic heterobicyclic compounds that have a naphthalene skeleton in which two of the carbons are replaced by nitrogens .
a naphthyridine in which the nitrogens are situated at positions 1 and 8 .
an organochlorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chlorine bond .
any compound having phosphocholine as part of its structure .
any member of the class of quinolines in which the quinoline skeleton is substituted by one or more amino or substituted - amino groups .
a sesquiterpene that is dodecane substituted by methyl groups at positions 2 ,  6 and 10 .
a bicyclic compound in which all the ring atoms are carbon .
o - organyl oximes r2c=nor'  ( r' = / = h )  .
two or more cyclic systems  ( single rings or fused systems )  which are directly joined to each other by double or single bonds are named ring assemblies when the number of such direct ring junctions is one less than the number of cyclic systems involved .
any hydroxy steroid carrying a hydroxy group at position 3 .
a 3 - hydroxy steroid in which the 3 - hydroxy substituent is in the alpha - position .
a monoatomic or polyatomic species having one or more elementary charges of the proton .
an organochalcogen compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - chalcogen bond .
an organochalcogen compound containing at least one carbon - oxygen bond .
an organoiodine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - iodine bond .
an organofluorine compound is a compound containing at least one carbon - fluorine bond .
any ec 3 .1 .3 .*  ( phosphoric monoester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of phosphoprotein phosphatase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .16 )  .
a polyol that contains 6 hydroxy groups .
the 6 - o - methyl ether of erythromycin a ,  clarithromycin is a macrolide antibiotic used in the treatment of respiratory - tract ,  skin and soft - tissue infections .
any ether in which the oxygen atom forms part of a ring .
an ec 2 .7 .7 .*  ( nucleotidyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of rna polymerase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .6 )  .
a carbohydrate - containing antibiotic that is the  semisynthetic derivative of lincomycin ,  a natural antibiotic .
3 - isopropylimino - 3 , 5 - dihydro - phenazine in which the hydrogen at position 5 is substituted substituted by a 4 - chlorophenyl group ,  and that at position 2 is substituted by a  ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) amino group .
an acid is a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron  ( bronsted acid )  or capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron pair  ( lewis acid )  .
derivatives of diazene with the general structure r - n=n - r' .
a molecular entity consisting of two or more chemical elements .
any heteroatomic molecular entity that is a chemical compound of halogen with other chemical elements .
an amide of a carboxylic acid ,  having the structure rc ( =o ) nr2 .
the l - enantiomer of glucopyranose .
a l - glucopyranose with an alpha - configuration at the anomeric position .
a compound which inhibits or antagonizes the biosynthesis or actions of proteases  ( endopeptidases )  .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of protein kinases .
a penam that consists of 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 7 - oxo - 4 - thia - 1 - azabicyclo [ 3 .2 .0 ] heptane bearing a carboxy group at position 2 and having  ( 2s , 5r )  - configuration .
a carboacyl group is a group formed by loss of at least one oh from the carboxy group of a carboxylic acid .
a plant growth regulator that modulates the formation of stems ,  leaves and flowers ,  as well as the development and ripening of fruit .
any coumarin carrying at least one hydroxy substituent .
a multi - component mixture comprising mostly of colistin a  ( r = me )  and b  ( r = h )  ,  with small amounts of colistin c and other polymyxins ,  produced by certain strains of bacillus polymyxa var .
a spiro compound in which at least one of the cyclic components is an oxygen heterocyle .
a carbopolyclic compound comprising of three carbocyclic rings .
a drug used in the treatment of malaria .
a drug used for the treatment or prevention of cardiac arrhythmias .
any organonitrogen compound containing a cyclic component with nitrogen and at least one other element as ring member atoms .
compounds based on a triazine skeleton .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing at least one ring oxygen atom .
any organonitrogen compound with formula rs - c ( =x ) nh2 where x = o  ( monothiocarbamic esters )  or s  ( dithiocarbamic esters )  ,  or their n - substituted derivatives .
any ester derived from a member of the class of dithiocarbamic acids by formal replacement of the  - sh group by  - sr ,  where r is an organyl group .
cyclic hemiacetals formed by intramolecular addition of a hydroxy group to an aldehydic or ketonic carbonyl group .
a ligand with two or more separate binding sites that can bind to a single metallic central atom ,  forming a chelate .
a monocarboxylic acid anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid .
one of a class of drugs that acts by selective inhibition of calcium influx through cell membranes or on the release and binding of calcium in intracellular pools .
any toxin produced by a plant .
any of a class of heterocyclic amines having a saturated five - membered ring .
any organic heterocyclic compound containing a benzene ring in which two of the c - h fragments have been replaced by isolobal nitrogens  ( the diazine parent structure )  .
a pyrimidine carrying one or more oxo substituents .
a member of the class of  pyrimidines that is pyrimidine substituted by at least one amino group and its derivatives .
an ec 1 .9 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of cytochrome c oxidase  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .1 )  .
a respiratory - chain inhibitor that interferes with the action of the the enzyme nadh:ubiquinone reductase  ( h (  +  )  - translocating )  ,  ec 1 .6 .5 .3 .
compounds having the structure r2c=nnr2 ,  formally derived from aldehydes or ketones by replacing =o by =nnh2  ( or substituted analogues )  .
any member of the class of fluorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring carrying two fluorine atoms .
a difluorobenzene carrying fluoro groups at positions 1 and 3 .
an ec 1 .4 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group ,  oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of monoamine oxidase  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .4 )  .
any agent that affects the transport of molecular entities across a biological membrane .
any dianion containing at least one carboxy group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the monoanion obtained by the deprotonation of the carboxy group attached to the quinoline skeleton
any compound containing morpholine as part of its structure .
a membrane transport modulator that is able to regulate intracellular calcium levels .
any organic heterotricyclic compound based on a dibenzofuran skeleton and its substituted derivatives thereof .
a molecular entity capable of donating a hydron to an acceptor  ( bronsted base )  .
a molecular entity capable of accepting a hydron from a donor  ( bronsted acid )  .
a molecular entity able to provide a pair of electrons and thus capable of forming a covalent bond with an electron - pair acceptor  ( lewis acid )  ,  thereby producing a lewis adduct .
any  organonitrogen heterocyclic compound based on a phenazine skeleton and derivatives .
mixture of 80% avermectin b1a and 20% avermectin b1b .
a mixture of emamectin b1a  ( major component )  and emamectin b1b  ( minor component )  .
any chemical substance that inhibits the life - cycle of an organism .
any compound with a 1 , 2 , 4 - triazine skeleton ,  in which nitrogen atoms replace carbon at positions 1 ,  2 and 4 of the core benzene ring structure .
any saturated fatty acid lacking a side - chain .
a role played by a fluorescent molecular entity used to study the microscopic environment by fluorescence spectroscopy .
any compound having a pyrimidine as part of its structure .
any azaalkane in which two or more carbons in the chain are replaced by nitrogen .
a monovalent inorganic anion that consists of phosphoric acid in which one of the three oh groups has been deprotonated .
a 4 - amino - 1 , 2 - oxazolidin - 3 - one that has r configuration .
a cyclic nonribosomal peptide of eleven amino acids ;  an immunosuppressant drug widely used in post - allogeneic organ transplant to reduce the activity of the patient's immune system ,  and therefore the risk of organ rejection .
meropenem in which the one of the two methyl groups attached to the amide nitrogen is replaced by hydrogen while the other is replaced by a 3 - carboxyphenyl group .
an aryloxypyrimidine having a 4 , 6 - diphenoxypyrimidine  skeleton in which one of the phenyl rings is cyano - substituted at c - 2 and the other carries a 2 - methoxy - 1 -  ( methoxycarbonyl ) vinyl substituent ,  also at c - 2 .
the 1h - tautomer of benzimidazole .
a glucopyranose having d - configuration .
a hexose that has d - configuration at position 5 .
a fluoroamino acid that is ornithine substituted by a difluoromethyl group at position 2 .
an alkane comprising of two carbon atoms .
an erythromycin that consists of erythronolide a having 2 , 6 - dideoxy - 3 - c - methyl - 3 - o - methyl - alpha - l - ribo - hexopyranosyl and 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 -  ( dimethylamino )  - beta - d - xylo - hexopyranosyl residues attahced at positions 4 and 6 respectively .
a phosphate ion that is the conjugate base of dihydrogenphosphate .
a carbapenemcarboxylic acid in which the azetidine and pyrroline rings carry 1 - hydroxymethyl and in which the azetidine and pyrroline rings carry 1 - hydroxymethyl and 5 -  ( dimethylcarbamoyl ) pyrrolidin - 3 - ylthio substituents respectively .
a carbotricyclic compound that is pleuromutilin in which the hydroxyacetate group is replaced by a 2 - { [ 2 -  ( diethylamino ) ethyl ] sulfanyl}acetate group .
a phosphorus oxoacid that consists of a single pentavalent phosphorus covalently bound via single bonds to a single hydrogen and two hydroxy groups and via a double bond to an oxygen .
a trivalent inorganic anion obtained by removal of all three protons from phosphorous acid .
a diether consisting of pentane - 1 , 5 - diol in which both hydroxyl hydrogens have been replaced by 4 - amidinophenyl groups .
a penicillin that is 6 - aminopenicillanic acid in which one of the amino hydrogens is replaced by a 3 -  ( 2 , 6 - dichlorophenyl )  - 5 - methyl - 1 , 2 - oxazol - 4 - yl ] formyl group .
a carbamate ester that is the isopropyl ester of  ( 3 , 4 - diethoxyphenyl ) carbamic acid .
a monocarboxylic acid amide resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of pyrazinoic acid  ( pyrazine - 2 - carboxylic acid )  with ammonia .
a sulfonamide in which the sulfamoyl functional group is attached to aniline at the 4 - position .
a hydroxamic acid that is n - hydroxybenzamide carrying a phenolic hydroxy group at position 2 .
an aminopyrimidine antibiotic whose structure consists of pyrimidine 2 , 4 - diamine and 1 , 2 , 3 - trimethoxybenzene moieties linked by a methylene bridge .
a member of the class of benzimidazoles carrying a 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl substituent at position 2 .
a member of the class of  triazoles that is propan - 2 - ol substituted at position 1 and 3 by 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl groups and at position 2 by a 2 , 4 - difluorophenyl group .
a cyclodepsipeptide that is n -  ( 3 - hydroxypicolinoyl )  - l - threonyl - d - alpha - aminobutyryl - l - prolyl - n - methyl - l - phenylalanyl - 4 - oxo - l - pipecoloyl - l - 2 - phenylglycine in which the carboxy group of the 2 - phenylglycine moiety has undergone formal intramolecular condensation with the hydroxy group of the n -  ( 3 - hydroxypicolinoyl )  - l - threonyl to give the corresponding 19 - membered ring lactone .
the class of beta - lactam antibiotics that whose members have a carbapenem skeleton which is variously substituted at positions 3 ,  4 ,  and 6 .
any ether that contains more than one ether linkage .
a polyether in which the number of ether linkages is 2 .
a liquid that can dissolve other substances  ( solutes )  without any change in their chemical composition .
a compound consisting of a peptide with attached lipid .
any organic heteromonocyclic compoundthat is oxane or its substituted derivatives .
a broad - spectrum ,  intravenous beta - lactam antibiotic of the carbapenem subgroup .
a third - generation cephalosporin antibiotic bearing vinyl and  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  [  ( carboxymethoxy ) imino ] acetamido groups at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
a first - generation cephalosporin compound having  [  ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl and  ( 1h - tetrazol - 1 - ylacetyl ) amino side - groups at positions 3 and 7 respectively .
a semisynthetic cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic which exerts its effect by inhibiting the synthesis of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan ,  an integral component of the fungal cell wall .
a cis - 1 - acetyl - 4 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl ) piperazine which dioxolane moiety has  ( 2s , 4r )  - configuration .
a racemate consisting of equimolar amounts of  ( 2r , 4s )  -  and  ( 2s , 4r )  - ketoconazole .
a peptide antibiotic that is vancomycin lacking the disaccharide moiety .
a cephalosporin bearing  ( 1 - methylpyrrolidinium - 1 - yl ) methyl and  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetamido groups at positions 3 and 7 ,  respectively ,  of the cephem skeleton .
anything used in a scientific experiment to indicate the presence of a substance or quality ,  change in a body ,  etc .
any steroid substituted by at least one carboxy group .
any primary amide having its amide oxygen replaced by sulfur .
ethers ror' where r has a double bond adjacent to the oxygen of the ether linkage .
a compound ,  usually an anti - bacterial agent or a toxin ,  which inhibits the synthesis of a protein .
a metabolite from penicillium brefeldianum that exhibits a wide range of antibiotic activity .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( 2s , 3r )  -  and  ( 2r , 3s )  - epoxiconazole .
a polyketide based on a tetracene ring structure .
an antimicrobial agent that is applied to non - living objects to destroy harmful microorganisms or to inhibit their activity .
a cis - 1 - acetyl - 4 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl ) piperazine which dioxolane moiety has  ( 2r , 4s )  - configuration .
a dioxolane that is 1 , 3 - dioxolane which is substituted at positions 2 ,  2 ,  and 4 by imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ,  2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ,  and  [ para -  ( 4 - acetylpiperazin - 1 - yl ) phenoxy ] methyl groups ,  respectively .
a solvent that is composed of polar molecules .
a polar solvent that is capable of acting as a hydron  ( proton )  donor .
compounds derived from oxoacids rke ( =o ) l ( oh ) m  ( l = / = 0 )  by replacing =o by =nr ;  thus tautomers of amides .
a carboximidic acid that is the imidic acid tautomer of urea ,  h2nc ( =nh ) oh ,  and its hydrocarbyl derivatives .
an agent and endogenous substances that antagonize or inhibit the development of new blood vessels .
substance which binds to cell receptors normally responding to naturally occurring substances and which produces a response of its own .
substance that attaches to and blocks cell receptors that normally bind naturally occurring substances .
an ethylenediamine derivative that is ethane - 1 , 2 - diamine in which one hydrogen attached to each of the nitrogens is sutstituted by a 1 - hydroxybutan - 2 - yl group  ( s , s - configuration )  .
a thiocarboxamide that is pyridine - 4 - carbothioamide substituted by an ethyl group at position 2 .
an azole in which the five - membered heterocyclic aromatic skeleton contains a n atom and one s atom .
any of several wide - spectrum macrolide antibiotics obtained from actinomycete saccharopolyspora erythraea  ( formerly known as streptomyces erythraeus )  .
a chemical substance which inhibits the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a drug used to treat asthma .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fenarimol .
an organosulfonic acid comprising stilbene having 4 - anilino - 6 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ]  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl}amino groups at the 4 and 4' - positions and sulfo groups at the 2 -  and 2' - positions .
an arenesulfonate arising from deprotonation of the sulfo groups of 4 , 4' - bis ( {4 - anilino - 6 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ]  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl}amino ) stilbene - 2 , 2' - disulfonic acid .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one ,  two or three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
an agent that binds to and activates excitatory amino acid receptors .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from a steroid acid .
a drug that softens ,  separates ,  and causes desquamation of the cornified epithelium or horny layer of skin .
a drug used to treat or prevent skin disorders or for the routine care of skin .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the activity of cytochrome p450 involved in catalysis of organic substances .
any pathway inhibitor that inhibits the synthesis of fatty acids .
any protective agent counteracting or neutralizing the action of poisons .
drug that acts on blood and blood - forming organs and those that affect the hemostatic system .
an agent that prevents blood clotting .
a compound that ,  on administration ,  must undergo chemical conversion by metabolic processes before becoming the pharmacologically active drug for which it is a prodrug .
synthetic or natural substance which is given to prevent a disease or disorder or are used in the process of treating a disease or injury due to a poisonous agent .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits the bacterial enzymes of the dna topoisomerases ,  type i class  ( ec 5 .99 .1 .2 )  that catalyze atp - independent breakage of one of the two strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strand through the break ,  and rejoining of the broken strand .
mononuclear cations derived by addition of a hydron to a mononuclear parent hydride of the pnictogen ,  chalcogen and halogen families .
a univalent organyl group obtained by cleaving the bond from c - 2 to the side chain of a proteinogenic amino - acid .
any of the macrolides obtained as fermentation products from the bacterium streptomyces avermitilis and consisting of a 16 - membered macrocyclic backbone that is fused both benzofuran and spiroketal functions and contains a disaccharide substituent .
a role played by a molecular entity used to study the microscopic environment .
a primary amine formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an aryl group .
any compound containing the thiocarbonyl group ,  c=s .
an agent that produces a soft formed stool ,  and relaxes and loosens the bowels ,  typically used over a protracted period ,  to relieve constipation .
substance that sweeten food ,  beverages ,  medications ,  etc .
an organic anion arising from deprotonation of the oh function of a phenol compound .
an aliphatic alcohol in which the aliphatic alkane chain is substituted by a hydroxy group at unspecified position .
ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of urease  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .5 )  ,  reducing hydrolysis .
an ec 1 .5 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of dihydrofolate reductase  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .3 )  .
a drug used to treat trichomonas infections .
a tetracycline analogue having a dimethylamino group at position 7 and lacking the methyl and hydroxy groups at position 5 .
monocyclic ,  bacterially produced or semisynthetic beta - lactam antibiotic .
an ec 2 .4 .1 .*  ( hexosyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of peptidoglycan glycosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .1 .129 )  .
a compound in which monosaccharide units are joined by glycosidic linkages .
a product in capsule ,  tablet or liquid form that provide essential nutrients ,  such as a vitamin ,  an essential mineral ,  a protein ,  an herb ,  or similar nutritional substance .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits dna topoisomerase  ( atp - hydrolysing )  ,  ec 5 .99 .1 .3  ( also known as topoisomerase ii and as dna gyrase )  ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
tetracycline in which the 5beta - hydrogen is replaced by a hydroxy group ,  while the 6alpha - hydroxy group is replaced by hydrogen .
biologically active substance whose activity affects or plays a role in the functioning of the immune system .
a substance that augments ,  stimulates ,  activates ,  potentiates ,  or modulates the immune response at either the cellular or humoral level .
any molecular entity that contains carbon .
a role played by a chemical compound to induce direct or indirect dna damage .
a role played by a chemical compound which is known to  induce a process of carcinogenesis  by corrupting  normal cellular pathways ,  leading to the acquistion of tumoral capabilities .
a chemical compound ,  or part thereof ,  which causes the onset of an allergic reaction by interacting with any of the molecular pathways involved in an allergy .
a role played by a chemical compound exihibiting itself through the ability to induce damage to the liver in animals .
a role played by a chemical compound exihibiting itself through the ability to induce damage to the kidney in animals .
a poison that interferes with the functions of the nervous system .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing one hydrogen atom by an organyl group .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing two hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
a compound formally derived from ammonia by replacing three hydrogen atoms by organyl groups .
an organofluorine compound that is cytosine that is substituted at position 5 by a fluorine .
a cyclic compound containing nine or more atoms as part of the cyclic system .
a drug that modulates the function of the endocrine glands ,  the biosynthesis of their secreted hormones ,  or the action of hormones upon their specific sites .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a chemical context .
an  organic molecule that is electrically neutral carrying a positive and a negative charge in one of its major canonical descriptions .
a penicillin in which the 6beta substituent is  [  ( azepan - 1 - yl ) methylidene ] amino ;  an extended - spectrum penicillin antibiotic that binds specifically to penicillin binding protein 2  ( pbp2 )  ,  and is only considered to be active against gram - negative bacteria .
a fluorescent dye used to stain biological specimens .
polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons consisting of fused benzene rings in a rectilinear arrangement and their substitution derivatives .
compounds containing a tetracene skeleton .
compounds of general formula rr'nc ( =s ) nr''r''' .
a dinitrile is a compound containing two nitrile groups .
sulfate salts where the cation is a metal ion .
any anion formed by loss of a proton from the carboxy group of a penicillin .
a drug that binds to and activates gamma - aminobutyric acid receptors .
a substance ,  such as agonists ,  antagonists ,  degradation or uptake inhibitors ,  depleters ,  precursors ,  and modulators of receptor function ,  used for its pharmacological actions on gabaergic systems .
a benzene substituted with two amino groups .
any organic substituent group ,  regardless of functional type ,  having two free valences at carbon atom ( s )  .
cyclopropane and its derivatives formed by substitution .
any aromatic ether that consists of a benzene skeleton substituted with one or more methoxy groups .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated carboxylic ester of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) or ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  in which the ester c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) r ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) r ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ketonic c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a carboxylic ester of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) or ( 4 )   ( r ( 4 )  = / = h )  or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) or ( 2 )   ( r ( 2 )  = / = h )  in which the ester c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
a monocarboxylic amide of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) nr ( 4 ) r ( 5 )   or r ( 1 ) c#c - c ( =o ) nr ( 2 ) r ( 3 )  in which the amide c=o function is conjugated to an unsaturated c - c bond at the alpha , beta position .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated carboxylic acid amide of general formula r ( 1 ) r ( 2 ) c=cr ( 3 )  - c ( =o ) nr ( 4 ) r ( 5 )  in which the amide c=o function is conjugated to a c=c double bond at the alpha , beta position .
a ketone of formula rc ( =o ) ch3  ( r = / = h )  .
a member of the class of oxazolidines that is 1 , 3 - oxazolidin - 2 - one in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by an n - { [  ( 5 - nitro - 2 - furyl ) methylene ] amino} group .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of methanol .
a biological role played by the molecular entity or part thereof within a biochemical context .
a role played by the molecular entity or part thereof which causes the development of a pathological process .
a biological role which describes how a drug interacts within a biological system and how the interactions affect its medicinal properties .
any molecule or ion capable of binding to a central metal atom to form coordination complexes .
any substance introduced into a living organism with therapeutic or diagnostic purpose .
an ortho - fused compound in which at least one of the rings contains at least one heteroatom .
a compound with the general formula r2c=o  ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group .
an oxyketone with the general formula r2c ( =o )   ( r= / =h )  where one or more of the r groups contains an oxy  (  - o -  )  group and the oxy and carbonyl groups are bonded to the same carbon atom .
a mixture composed from maneb and zineb ,  which is used as a broad - spectrum contact fungicide .
a polymeric complex of manganese with the ethylene bis ( dithiocarbamate )  anionic ligand .
a polymeric complex of zinc with the ethylene bis ( dithiocarbamate )  anionic ligand .
an antifungal metabolite of sordaria araneosa that inhibits protein synthesis .
a diterpenoid with a tetracyclic skeleton .
a leptomycin having a  ( 2e , 10e , 12e , 16z , 18e )  - double bond configuration as well as an ethyl substituent at position 17 .
a complex ,  very long chain ,  polyunsaturated fatty acid whose core structure comprises 8 - oxononadeca - 2 , 10 , 12 , 16 , 18 - pentaenoic acid having methyl substituents at positions 3 ,  5 ,  7 ,  9 ,  11 and 15 and a 3 , 6 - dihydropyran - 6 - one - 2 - yl group at position 19 .
a monocarboxylic acid that is 4 - oxo - 1 , 4 - dihydroquinoline - 3 - carboxylic acid which is substituted on the nitrogen by a cyclopropyl group and at positions 6 ,  7 ,  and 8 by fluoro ,  3 - methylpiperazin - 1 - yl ,  and methoxy groups ,  respectively .
a cyclic macromolecule containing one or more nitrogen atoms in place of carbon either as the divalent group nh for the group ch2 or a single trivalent nitrogen atom for the group ch .
the biological role played by a material entity when bound by a receptor of the adaptive immune system .
a topoisomerase inhibitor that inhibits dna topoisomerase iv ,  which catalyses atp - dependent breakage of both strands of dna ,  passage of the unbroken strands through the breaks ,  and rejoining of the broken strands .
an alpha - d - glucoside deoxygenated at c - 2 and c - 6 .
a tetracyclic antibacterial agent derived from neomycin ,  being a glycoside ester of neamine and neobiosamine c .
a cephalosporin carboxylic acid anion having methoxy ,  2 - thienylacetamido and carbamoyloxymethyl side - groups ,  formed by proton loss from the carboxy group of the semisynthetic cephamycin antibiotic cefoxitin .
a cephalosporin carboxylic acid anion having  [  ( 5 - methyl - 1 , 3 , 4 - thiadiazol - 2 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl and  ( 1h - tetrazol - 1 - ylacetyl ) amino side - groups ,  formed by proton loss from the carboxy group of cefazolin .
a cephalosporin carboxylis acid anion having 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetylamino and  [  ( 2 - methyl - 5 , 6 - dioxo - 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 - tetrahydro - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazin - 3 - yl ) sulfanyl ] methyl side - groups ,  formed by proton loss from the carboxy group of ceftriaxone .
an amphipathic bisbiguanide with a structure consisting of two  ( 2 - ethylhexyl ) guanide units linked by a hexamethylene bridge .
a class of oral hypoglycemic drugs used for diabetes mellitus or prediabetes treatment .
any organic heterotricyclic compound based on a skeleton comprised of an oxazine ring fused onto a quinoline system .
a cephalosporin carboxylic acid anion having acetoxymethyl and  [ 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 -  ( methoxyimino ) acetyl ] amino side - groups ,  formed by proton loss from the carboxy group of the cephalosporin cefotaxime .
a cephalosporin carboxylic acid anion formed by proton loss from the carboxy group of ceftazidime ,  a cephalosporin having 7beta -  [  ( 2z )  - 2 -  ( 2 - amino - 1 , 3 - thiazol - 4 - yl )  - 2 - { [  ( 2 - carboxypropan - 2 - yl ) oxy ] imino}acetyl ] amino and 3 - pyridinium - 1 - ylmethyl side - groups .
a dicarboximide that is piperidine which is substituted by oxo groups at positions 2 and 6 .
a semisynthetic echinocandin anti - fungal drug .
an imidazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
oxazoles in which the n and o atoms are adjacent .
an oxazolidine containing one or more oxo groups .
a ketone containing a hydroxy group on the beta - carbon relative to the c=o group .
any member of the cephamycin sub - group of cephem antibiotics ,  differing from cephalosporins in possessing a methoxy group at the 7alpha - position of the cephem nucleus ,  and in being resistant to beta - lactamase .
any one of a large family of chemically related mycotoxins with a structure based on a sesquiterpene skeleton .
a compound having the general formula rr'c ( oh ) or''  ( r'' = / = h )  .
a cyclic compound having as ring members atoms of at least two different elements .
any one of a family of large lipopeptides that are inhibitors of the enzyme 1 , 3 - beta - glucan synthase ,  thus damaging fungal cell walls .
a d - alpha - amino acid zwitterion that is d - proline in which a proton has been transferred from the carboxy group to the amino group .
zwitterionic form of 6 - aminopenicillanic acid arising from migration of a proton from the carboxy group to the 6 - amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ammonium ion that is the trication of hygromycin b arising from protonation of the three amino groups ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
trication of streptomycin arising from protonation of the guanidino and secondary amino groups .
an amino acid - based antibiotic derived from certain thermophilic fungi ;  acts as a potent inhibitor of serine palmitoyltransferase ,  the first step in sphingosine biosynthesis .
a quadruply - charged organic cation arising from protonation of the four amino groups of kanamycin a ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a member of the class of isoxazoles carrying hydroxy and methyl substituents at positions 3 and 5 respectively .
an organic cation that is the pentacation of kanamycin b ,  obtained by protonation of the primary amino groups .
an organic phosphoric acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid anion with a chain length greater than c22 .
any fatty acid anion obtained by removal of a proton from the carboxy group of a short - chain fatty acid  ( chain length of less than c6 )  .
any fatty acid anion in which there is no c - c unsaturation .
any saturated fatty acid anion lacking a carbon side - chain .
any fatty acid anion with a carbon side - chain or isopropyl termination .
an organic anion of general formula rs ( =o ) 2o (  -  )  where r is an organyl group .
polymyxins are antibiotics with a general structure consisting of a cyclic peptide with a long hydrophobic tail .
a polymyxin having a  ( 6r )  - 6 - methyloctanoyl group at the amino terminus .
conjugate base of oxolinic acid .
any ec 3 .4 .*  ( hydrolases acting on peptide bond )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of a metalloendopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .
a substance used as an indicator  of a biological state .
any fatty acid whose skeletal carbon atoms form an unbranched open chain .
a fatty acid anion formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid functional group of a straight - chain fatty acid .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of squalene monooxygenase  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .132 )  .
the conjugate acid of cefepime .
the dianion formed by removal of a proton from each of the carboxylic acid groups of cefotetan .
the anion resulting from the removal of a proton from the carboxylic acid group of cephalexin .
any substance that inhibits the synthesis of dna .
an organic phosphonic acid derivative in which one or more oxygen atoms of the phosphonate group ( s )  has been deprotonated .
any fatty acid containing at least one aldehydic or ketonic group in addition to the carboxylic acid group .
an ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of serine palmitoyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .50 )  .
a fatty acid containing at least one amino substituent .
a class of nucleoside - peptide antibiotics which inhibit fungal chitin biosynthesis by inhibiting chitin synthase .
a ec 2 .4 .1 .*  ( hexosyltransferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of chitin synthase  ( ec 2 .4 .1 .16 )  .
a polymyxin having a 6 - methylheptanoyl group at the amino terminus .
a polyene antifungal antibiotic complex containing three biologically active components ,  a1 ,  a2 and a3 .
compounds containing one or more phosphoric acid units .
a reagent that forms a bond to its reaction partner  ( the electrophile )  by donating both bonding electrons .
a fatty acid with an amino substituent at position c - 2 .
an organooxygen compound having the structure rr'c ( or'' )  ( or''' )   ( r'' ,  r''' = / = h )  .
an acetal in the molecule of which the acetal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
a hemiacetal having the structure rr ( 1 ) c ( oh ) or ( 2 )   ( r ,  r ( 1 )  ,  r ( 2 )  = / = h )  ,  derived from a ketone by formal addition of an alcohol to the carbonyl group .
an acetal of formula r2c ( or ) 2  ( r = / = h )  derived from a ketone by replacement of the oxo group by two hydrocarbyloxy groups .
a ketal in the molecule of which the ketal carbon and one or both oxygen atoms thereon are members of a ring .
a hemiacetal  having the structure r2c ( oh ) or  ( r = / = h )  ,  derived from a ketone by formal addition of an alcohol to the carbonyl group .
the sulfur analogue of 'acetal' .
a thioacetal having the structure r2c ( or' )  ( sr' )  .
conjugate base of an l - alpha - amino acid arising from deprotonation of the c - 1 carboxy group .
an  acetylenic and an olefinic  compound containing a carbon chain that contains a carbon - carbon double bond and a carbon - carbon triple bond .
the conjugate base of any hydroxy fatty acid ,  formed by deprotonation of the carboxylic acid moiety .
any drug used to depigment skin ,  normally by decreasing the excretion of melanin from melanocytes .
zwitterionic form of an l - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
zwitterionic form of a d - alpha - amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a chemical substance is a portion of matter of constant composition ,  composed of molecular entities of the same type or of different types .
a mixture is a chemical substance composed of multiple molecules ,  at least two of which are of a different kind .
a polypeptide comprising n - decanoyltryptophan ,  asparagine ,  aspartic acid ,  threonine ,  glycine ,  ornithine ,  aspartic acid ,  d - alanine ,  aspartic acid ,  glycine ,  d - serine ,  threo - 3 - methylglutamic acid and 3 - anthraniloylalanine  ( also known as kynurinine )  coupled in sequence and lactonised by condensation of the carboxylic acid group of the 3 - anthraniloylalanine  with the alcohol group of the threonine residue .
a polymer is a mixture ,  which is composed of macromolecules of different kinds and which may be differentiated by composition ,  length ,  degree of branching etc . .
the zwitterion formed from l - proline by proton transfer from the carboxy group to the ring nitrogen .
a cyclic hexapeptide echinocandin antibiotic which exerts its effect by inhibiting the synthesis of 1 , 3 - beta - d - glucan ,  an integral component of the fungal cell wall .
the mono - anion resulting from the removal of a proton from one of the carboxyic acid groups of ertapenem .
a metal cation with a valence of two .
an atom or small molecule with a positive charge that does not contain carbon in covalent linkage ,  with a valency of one .
r = c or h . the iminium ion resulting from the protonation of one of the imine nitrogens of guanidine or its derivatives .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydrolase acting on peptide bonds  ( peptidase )  ,  ec 3 .4 .* .
a carbohydrazide obtained by formal condensation between pyridine - 4 - carboxylic acid and hydrazine .
a pyridinemonocarboxylic acid in which the carboxy group is at position 4 of the pyridine ring .
an anion formed by deprotonation of at least one peptide carboxy group .
zwitterionic form of any peptide where ,  in general ,  the amino terminus is positively charged and the carboxy terminus is negatively charged .
compounds that contain an amide group as a key feature of their structure and which have been used as fungicides .
any substance that inhibits the action of n - methyl - d - aspartate  ( nmda )  receptors .
any fatty acid containing nitrogen as either a substituent or a replacement for a methylene carbon .
an n - arylpiperazine that is cis - ketoconazole in which the imidazol - 1 - yl group is replaced by a 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl group and in which the actyl group attached to the piperazine moiety is replaced by a p -  [  (  +  -  ) 1 - sec - butyl - 5 - oxo - 1 , 5 - dihydro - 4h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 4 - yl ] phenyl group .
an analogue of a nucleoside ,  being an n - glycosyl compound in which the nitrogen - containing moiety is a modified nucleotide base .
any substance which inhibits the action of receptors for excitatory amino acids .
any pharmacological or immunological agent that modifies the effect of other agents such as drugs or vaccines while having few if any direct effects when given by itself .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit or promote polymerisation of microtubules .
any alpha - amino acid anion in which the parent amino acid has d - configuration .
a racemate is an equimolar mixture of a pair of enantiomers .
a mixture composed of two or more diastereoisomers  ( stereoisomers not related as mirror images )  .
a glucoside in which the anomeric carbon of the glycosidic bond is in an alpha configuration
a nitrogen - containing fatty acid anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxy group of any amino fatty acid .
a fatty acid anion arising from deprotonation of the carboxylic acid group of any nitrogen - containing fatty acid .
a poison that interferes with the function of the kidneys .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone deacetylase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .98 )  .
any compound that has a nucleobase as a part .
any cyclitol having one or more alcoholic hydroxy groups replaced by substituted or unsubstituted amino groups .
a cyclodepsipeptide antibiotic ,  which is isolated from the filamentous fungus aureobasidium pullulans r106 and is toxic to yeast at low concentrations  ( 0 .1 - 0 .5 ug / ml )  .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of inositol phosphorylceramide synthase .
any substance that interacts with tubulin to inhibit polymerisation of microtubules .
zwitterionic form of a polar amino acid having an anionic carboxy group and a protonated amino group .
a monocarboxylic acid anion that is the conjugate base of nalidixic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organophosphonate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of one of the two phosphonate oh groups of  ( 1r , 2s )  - epoxypropylphosphonic acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a uridine - based nucleoside - peptide antibiotic which inhibits fungal chitin biosynthesis by inhibiting chitin synthase .
an organophosphonate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the two phosphonate oh groups of  ( 1r , 2s )  - epoxypropylphosphonic acid .
a molecular messenger in which the molecule is specifically involved in transmitting information between cells .
any organophosphate oxoanion that is a negatively charged phospholipid ,  e .g .
an ester where the ester linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
an amide in which the amide linkage is bonded directly to an aromatic system .
any compound that is able to prevent damage to the liver .
an ec 1 .2 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group with oxygen as acceptor )  inhibitor which interferes with the action of aldehyde oxidase  ( ec 1 .2 .3 .1 )  .
an ec 2 .4 .2 .*  ( pentosyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a nad (  +  )  adp - ribosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .2 .30 )  .
the chemical role played by a substance that stabilizes an emulsion by increasing its kinetic stability .
a carbohydrate derivative arising formally from the elimination of water from a glycosidic hydroxy group and an h atom bound to an oxygen ,  carbon ,  nitrogen or sulfur atom of a separate entity .
the element or compound in a reduction - oxidation  ( redox )  reaction that donates an electron to another species .
a substance that removes electrons from another reactant in a redox reaction .
any organooxygen compound derived from a carbohydrate by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by an amino group ,  a thiol group or similar heteroatomic groups .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a disaccharide .
a carbohydrate derivative that is formally obtained from a monosaccharide .
an aromatic amino acid whose alpha - carboxylic acid group is ionized  ( non - protonated )  .
a substance capable of undergoing rapid and highly exothermic decomposition .
an optically active form of ofloxacin having  ( s )  - configuration ;  an inhibitor of bacterial topoisomerase iv and dna gyrase
an organofluorine compound that consists of 1 , 3 - oxazolidin - 2 - one bearing an n - 3 - fluoro - 4 -  ( morpholin - 4 - yl ) phenyl group as well as an acetamidomethyl group at position 5 .
a quinolone that consists of 4 - oxo - 1 , 4 - dihydroquinoline - 3 - carboxylic acid bearing a cyclopropyl substituent at position 1 ,  a fluoro substitiuent at position 6 ,  a  ( 4as , 7as )  - octahydro - 6h - pyrrolo [ 3 , 4 - b ] pyridin - 6 - yl group at position 7 and a methoxy substituent at position 8 .
an antogonist that blocks chemokine receptor 5  ( ccr5 )  .
any organic heterobicyclic compound containing ortho - fused pyrrolidine and piperidine rings .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of moxifloxacin .
any compound that can be used for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders .
any lactone in which the cyclic carboxylic ester group forms a part of a cyclic macromolecule .
an agonist at the estrogen receptor .
any substance which is added to food to preserve or enhance its flavour and / or appearance .
a food additive that is used to change or otherwise control the acidity or alkalinity of foods .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by an 11 - methyldodec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an ec 2 .7 .8 .*  ( transferases for other substituted phosphate groups )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any udp - n - acetylglucosamine -  - dolichyl - phosphate n - acetylglucosaminephosphotransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .8 .15 )  ,  preventing formation of n - acetylglucosamine lipid intermediates and glycosylation of newly synthesised glycoproteins .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 12 - methyltridec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a tetradec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a pentadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 13 - methyltetradec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by an 13 - methyltetradecanoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 14 - methylpentadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a hexadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an erythromycin cation that is the conjugate acid of erythromycin a ,  arising from protonation of the tertiary amino group on the 3 , 4 , 6 - trideoxy - 3 -  ( dimethylamino )  - beta - d - xylo - hexopyranosyl residue ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a heptadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
a nucleoside that is one of the homologues in the mixture that is tunicamycin ,  characterised by a 15 - methylhexadec - 2 - enoyl fatty acyl substituent on the amino group of the tunicamine moiety .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of any erythromycin .
an n - arylpiperazine that consists of piperazine carrying two 4 - substituted phenyl groups at positions 1 and 4 .
a carboxamidinium ion obtained by protonation of both amindino groups of pentamidine .
an organic aromatic compound whose structure contains two aromatic rings or ring systems ,  joined to each other by a single bond .
an excitatory amino acid agonist which binds to nmda receptors and triggers a response .
a food additive which is added to flour or dough to improve baking quality and / or colour .
an inorganic cation with a valency of two .
an organic molecular entity containing a single carbon atom  ( c1 )  .
any organic molecular entity that is acidic and contains carbon in covalent linkage .
a carbohydrate - containing antibiotic produced by the actinomyces streptomyces lincolnensis .
any substance that causes disturbance to organisms by chemical reaction or other activity on the molecular scale ,  when a sufficient quantity is absorbed by the organism .
any compound that inhibits cell division  ( mitosis )  .
a drug used to treat or prevent infections caused by mycobacteria ,  a genus of actinobacteria .
an antiparasitic drug which is effective against apicomplexan parasites in the genus plasmodium .
a depigmentation agent which inhibits the synthesis of melanin .
an antiviral agent that destroys or inhibits the replication of the human immunodeficiency virus .
a lipoxygenase inhibitor that interferes with the action of arachidonate 15 - lipoxygenase  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .33 )  .
any ec 3 .1 .1 .*  ( carboxylic ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of triacylglycerol lipase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .3 )  .
any compound that has anti - asthmatic effects .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the four free amino groups of neamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the six free amino groups of neomycin c ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
substances which are added to food in order to prevent decomposition caused by  microbial growth or by undesirable chemical changes .
a food preservative which prevents decomposition of food by preventing the growth of fungi or bacteria .
a compound that inhibits the action of gamma - aminobutyric acid .
an ammonium ion derivative resulting from the protonation of the nitrogen atom of a primary amino compound .
any compound that has anti - inflammatory effects .
a penicillin that is 6 - aminopenicillanic acid in which one of the amino hydrogens is replaced by a 2 , 6 - dimethoxybenzoyl group .
any monocyclic heteroarene consisting of a five - membered ring containing nitrogen .
a protein kinase inhibitor of the mammalian target of rapamycin  ( mtor )  ,  a protein that regulates cell growth ,  cell proliferation ,  cell motility ,  cell survival ,  protein synthesis and transcription .
any substance that induces the process of apoptosis  ( programmed cell death )  in multi - celled organisms .
a bicyclic macrolide natural product consisting of a 16 - membered bicyclic lactone attached to the rare 2 - thiazolidinone moiety .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - miconazole .
an alpha , beta - unsaturated ester resulting from the formal condensation of the alcoholic hydroxy group of 9 - hydroxynonanoic acid with the carboxy group of  ( 2e )  - 4 -  [  ( 2s )  - tetrahydro - 2h - pyran - 2 - yl ]  - 3 - methylbut - 2 - enoic acid in which the tetrahydropyranyl ring is substituted at positions 3 and 4 by hydroxy groups and at position 5 by a { ( 2s , 3s )  - 3 -  [  ( 2s , 3s )  - 3 - hydroxybutan - 2 - yl ] oxiran - 2 - yl}methyl group .
an ec 5 .99 .1 .*  ( miscellaneous isomerase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the topoisomerases  ( enzymes that regulate the overwinding or underwinding of dna )  .
any substance that inhibits the polymerisation of the protein actin .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino groups of any alkane - alpha , omega - diamine ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .98  ( histone deacetylase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of sir2 .
an organophosphonate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of both phosphonate oh groups of any phosphonic acid .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of a transferase  ( ec 2 .
a steroid acid anion that is the conjugate base of fusidic acid ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of minocycline ,  obtained by deprotonation of the two enolic hydroxy groups and protonation of the non - aromatic tertiary amino group .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of novobiocin .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 5 - hydroxy group to the tertiary amino group of rifampicin .
an organic anion that is the conjugate base of tetracycline obtained by deprotonation of the two enolic hydroxy groups and protonation of the tertiary amino group .
an imidazolidine - 2 , 4 - dione that is hydantoin substituted at position 1 by a  [  ( 5 - nitro - 2 - furyl ) methylene ] amino group .
members of the class of tetrahydrochromenochromene that consists of a cis - fused tetrahydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] chromene skeleton and its substituted derivatives .
a type - a lantibiotic containing 34 amino acid residues  ( including lanthionine  ( lan )  ,  methyllanthionine  ( melan )  ,  didehydroalanine  ( dha )  and didehydroaminobutyric acid  ( dhb )  )  and five thioether bridges .
a class of peptide antibiotic characterised by the presence of the rare thioether amino acids lanthionine or methyllanthionine ,  as well as the unsaturated amino acids dehydroalanine and 2 - aminoisobutyric acid .
any lantibiotic which has which has a long ,  flexible structure .
any organooxygen compound that has the general formula rc ( or ( 1 )  )  ( or ( 2 )  )  ( or ( 3 )  )  ,  where r ( 1 )  ,  r ( 2 )  ,  r ( 3 )  = / = h .
any organic molecular entity whose stucture is based on derivatives of a phenyl - substituted 1 - phenylpropane possessing a c15 or c16 skeleton ,  or such a structure which is condensed with a c6 - c3 lignan precursors .
any chromenochromene resulting from the formal cis - fusion of two dihydro chromene rings ,  together with their substituted derivatives .
members of the class of rotenoid which consists of a 6a , 12a - dihydrochromeno [ 3 , 4 - b ] chromen - 12 ( 6h )  - one skeleton and its substituted products .
any organic molecular entity derived from a natural product by partial chemical synthesis .
a cyclic ketal in which the ketal carbon is the only common atom of two rings .
any molecule that consists of at least one carbon atom as part of the electrically neutral entity .
an agonist that binds to and activates aryl hydrocarbon receptors  ( ahrs )  .
any organic amino compound that has an amino group and a hydroxy group attached to the same carbon atom .
an  ec 1 .11 .1 .*  ( peroxidases )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of l - ascorbate peroxidase  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .11 )  .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase which acts on acid anhydrides  ( ec 3 .6 .* .
any organic molecule containing a c#c bond .
any naphthyridine derivative that is a derivative of 1 , 8 - naphthyridine .
any organonitrogen heterocyclic compound that is a derivative of a naphthyridine .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the five amino groups of tobramycin .
a carbohydrate derivative in which one or more of the oxygens or hydroxy groups of the parent carbohydrate is replaced by sulfur or  - sr ,  where r can be hydrogen or any group .
an antimetabolite that impairs the action of folic acids
a zwitterion resulting from the transfer of a proton from the ring nitrogen to the primary amino group of d - cycloserine .
a tertiary amine in which the nitrogen is substituted by methyl ,  alpha - naphthylmethyl ,  and  ( 1e )  - cinnamyl groups .
a compound that causes the contraction of body tissues ,  typically used to reduce bleeding from minor abrasions .
any organic aromatic compound having one or more hydroxy groups attached to a heteroarene ring .
2 - deoxy - d - streptamine glycosylated at the 4 - oxygen with a 6 - amino - alpha - d - glucosaminyl group .
a broad - spectrum highly toxic antibiotic or mixture of antibiotics produced by a streptomyces  ( streptomyces fradiae )  and used medically especially to treat local infections .
a tetracyclic antibacterial agent derived from neomycin ,  being a glycoside ester of neamine and neobiosamine b .
any compound that inhibits one or more steps in the pathway leading to the synthesis of ergosterol .
a phospholipid that is the hexadecyl monoester of phosphocholine .
any substance that accelerates defecation .
an ec 1 .11 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any of the peroxidases  ( ec 1 .11 .1 .
a 4 - amino - 1 , 2 - oxazolidin - 3 - one that has s configuration .
an enzyme inhibitor that inhibits the action of an isomerase  ( ec 5 .* .* .
a carboxamide that is a hydroxamic acid in which the hydrogen of the hydroxy group is replaced by an organyl group .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the five amino groups of any gentamicin c .
any  metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in eukaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of the fungi ,  plantae and animalia kingdoms .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in animals that include diverse creatures from sponges ,  insects to mammals .
any animal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in mammals .
any of the group of eight water - soluble vitamins originally thought to be a single compound  ( vitamin b )  that play important roles in cell metabolism .
any mammalian metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in a mouse  ( mus musculus )  .
any  fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in baker's yeast  ( saccharomyces cerevisiae )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in prokaryotes ,  the taxon that include members of domains such as the bacteria and archaea .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of d - cycloserine ,  obtained by protonation of the amino group .
a peptide zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of vancomycin aglycone .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any aromatic amino - acid .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound .
an  ec 2 .3 .1 .*  ( acyltransferase transferring other than amino - acyl group )  inhibitor that interferes with the function of histone acetyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .48 )  .
any metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
any unsaturated fatty acid anion containing more than one c - c unsaturated bond .
a polyene macrolide antibiotic ;  part of the nystatin complex produced by several streptococcus species .
a transferase inhibitor that interferes with the action of an acyltransferase  ( ec 2 .3 .* .
a transferase inhibitor inhibiting the action of a glycosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .* .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the transfer of an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .
a transferase inhibitor that inhibits the action of a phosphorus - containing group transferase  ( ec 2 .7 .* .
an isomerase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any member of the group of 'other isomerases'  ( ec 5 .99 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of a lyase  ( ec 4 .* .* .* )  .
a lyase inhibitor which inhibits the action of a c - o lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .* .
an enzyme inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase  ( ec 1 .* .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the aldehyde or oxo group of donors  ( ec 1 .2 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - ch group of donors  ( ec 1 .3 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh2 group of donors  ( ec 1 .4 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on the ch - nh group of donors  ( ec 1 .5 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on  nadh or nadph  ( ec 1 .6 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on a heme group of donors  ( ec 1 .9 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors  ( ec 1 .11 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ,  ec 1 .13 .* .
an oxidoreductase inhibitor which interferes with the action of an oxidoreductase acting on hydrogen as donors  ( ec 1 .14 .* .
any enzyme inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase  ( ec 3 .* .* .
a hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of any ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .* .
any hydrolase inhibitor that interferes with the action of a hydrolase acting on c - n bonds ,  other than peptide bonds  ( ec 3 .5 .* .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of a carboxylic ester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .1 .
an ec 3 .1 .*  ( ester hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphoric monoester hydrolase  ( ec 3 .1 .3 .
an ec 2 .4 .*  ( glycosyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hexosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .1 .
an ec 2 .4 .*  ( glycosyltransferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any pentosyltransferase  ( ec 2 .4 .2 .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .
an ec 3 .5 .*  ( hydrolases acting on non - peptide c - n bonds )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any non - peptide cyclic amide c - n hydrolase  ( ec 3 .5 .2 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any protein - serine / threonine kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any nucleotidyltransferase  ( ec 2 .7 .7 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with any enzyme in the ec 2 .7 .8 .
an ec 5 .99 .*  ( other isomerases )  inhibitor that interferes with the activity of any enzyme in the ec 5 .99 .1 .
an ec 2 .5 .*  ( transferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any transferase that transfers an alkyl  ( other than methyl )  or aryl group  ( ec 2 .5 .
an ec 1 .13 .*  [ oxidoreductase acting on single donors with incorporation of molecular oxygen  ( oxygenases )  ]  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any oxidoreductase incorporating 2 atoms of oxygen  ( ec 1 .13 .11 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using reduced flavin or flavoprotein as donor  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .
an ec 1 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  with incorporation or reduction of molecular oxygen )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme incorporating one atom of oxygen and using nadh or nadph as one donor  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of vancomycin ,  obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group and protonation of the two amino functions ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
an ec 1 .2 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor aldehyde / oxo group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .2 .3 .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .
an ec 1 .4 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh2 group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .4 .3 .
an ec 1 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - nh group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor  ( ec 1 .5 .1 .
an ec 1 .6 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on nadh or nadph )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using a quinone or similar as acceptor  ( ec 1 .6 .5 .
an ec 1 .9 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor heme group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using oxygen as acceptor  ( ec 1 .9 .3 .
an ec 2 .3 .*  ( acyltransferase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of any acyltransferase transferring groups other than amino - acyl groups  ( ec 2 .3 .1 .
an ec 2 .7 .*  ( p - containing group transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any phosphotransferase with an alcohol group as acceptor  ( ec 2 .7 .1 .
an ec 3 .6 .*  ( hydrolases acting on acid anhydrides )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme that catalyses transmembrane movement of substances  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .
an ec 1 .14 .14 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating of 1 atom of oxygen ,  with reduced flavin or flavoprotein as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of an unspecified monooxygenase  ( ec 1 .14 .14 .1 )  .
an ec 4 .2 .*  ( c - o lyase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any hydro - lyase  ( ec 4 .2 .1 .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in plants ,  the kingdom that include flowering plants ,  conifers and other gymnosperms .
an enzyme inhibitor that interferes with one or more steps in a metabolic pathway .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in fungi ,  the kingdom that includes microorganisms such as the yeasts and moulds .
any fungal metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in penicillium .
any human metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in humans .
any prokaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in bacteria .
any bacterial metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in escherichia coli .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of tylosin ,  obtained by protonation of the tertiary amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - clostanel .
an aromatic amide resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 3 , 5 - diiodosalicylic acid with the amino group of aniline substituted at positions 2 ,  4 ,  and 5 by methyl ,   ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  ( cyano ) methyl ,  and methyl groups respectively .
an n - {5 - chloro - 4 -  [  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  ( cyano ) methyl ]  - 2 - methylphenyl} - 2 - hydroxy - 3 , 5 - diiodobenzamide that has r configuration .
an n - {5 - chloro - 4 -  [  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  ( cyano ) methyl ]  - 2 - methylphenyl} - 2 - hydroxy - 3 , 5 - diiodobenzamide that has s configuration .
an ec 1 .3 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using a quinone or related compound as acceptor  ( ec 1 .3 .5 .
an ec 2 .7 .1 .*  ( phosphotransferases with an alcohol group as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of pantothenate kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .1 .33 )  .
an ec 3 .4 .24 .*  ( metalloendopeptidase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of anthrax lethal factor endopeptidase  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .83 )  .
a member of the class of dithiocarbamate anions resulting from the deprotonation of both of the dithiocarbamic acid moieties of ethylenebis ( dithiocarbamic acid )  .
an oxazinoquinolone carrying carboxy ,  fluoro ,  methyl and 4 - methylpiperazino substituents .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the secondary amino groups of spectinomycin .
an agonist that selectively binds to and activates a pregnane x receptor .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of trovafloxacin ,  obtained by protonation of the primary amino group .
an organic cation that is the conjugate acid of terbinafine ,  obtained by protonation of the amino group ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any iminium ion resulting from the protonation of a carboxamidine .
a tertiary amino compound that is 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenylethylamine in which the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen are replaced by a methyl group and a 4 - cyano - 4 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl )  - 5 - methylhexyl group .
a 2 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl )  - 5 - { [ 2 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) ethyl ]  ( methyl ) amino} - 2 -  ( propan - 2 - yl ) pentanenitrile that has r configuration .
a 2 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl )  - 5 - { [ 2 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl ) ethyl ]  ( methyl ) amino} - 2 -  ( propan - 2 - yl ) pentanenitrile that has s configuration .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of dexverapamil .
an ammonium ion resulting from the protonation of the tertiary amino group of  ( s )  - verapamil .
an ec 3 .4 .24 .*  ( metalloendopeptidase )  inhibitor that inhibits the action of meprin a  ( ec 3 .4 .24 .18 )  .
any mammalian metabolite  produced during a metabolic reaction in humans  ( homo sapiens )  .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of phospholipid - translocating atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .1 )  .
an ec 3 .6 .3 .*  ( acid anhydride hydrolase catalysing transmembrane movement of substances )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of xenobiotic - transporting atpase  ( ec 3 .6 .3 .44 )  .
any environmental contaminant that is resistant to environmental degradation through photolytic ,  biological or chemical processes .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of ec 1 .14 .13 .70  ( sterol 14alpha - demethylase )  .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy group to the 1 - amino group of minocycline .
a zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the 2 - hydroxy group to the 1 - amino group of tetracycline .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of amidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .4 )  .
a compound that is used to keep a substance moist .
a humectant that is used as a food additive to prevent foodstuffs from drying out .
a peptide anion that is the conjugate base of vancomycin aglycone and the major microspecies at ph 7 .3  ( according to marvin v 6 .2 .0 .
a penicillin antibiotic carrying a 5 - methyl - 3 - phenylisoxazole - 4 - carboxamide group at position 6beta .
any saturated fatty acid anion containing 24 carbons .
any substance that is distributed in foodstuffs .
any minor or unwanted substance introduced into the environment that can have undesired effects .
an ec 2 .5 .1 .*  ( non - methyl - alkyl or aryl transferase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of udp - n - acetylglucosamine 1 - carboxyvinyltransferase  ( ec 2 .5 .1 .7 )  .
a substance used in a thermodynamic heat pump cycle or refrigeration cycle that undergoes a phase change from a gas to a liquid and back .
an amino acid zwitterion obtained by transfer of a proton from the carboxy to the amino group of any alpha - amino acid ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organooxygen compound that is a polyhydroxy - aldehyde or  - ketone ,  or a compound derived from one .
any metabolite produced by all living cells .
a member of the class of imidazoles carrying an alpha -  ( biphenyl - 4 - yl ) benzyl substituent at position 1 .
a 1 -  [ biphenyl - 4 - yl ( phenyl ) methyl ] imidazole that is the r - enantiomer of bifonazole .
a 1 -  [ biphenyl - 4 - yl ( phenyl ) methyl ] imidazole that is the s - enantiomer of bifonazole .
a member of the class of dibenzofurans that is a potent broad spectrum antifungal agent isolated from the fungus cercosporidium henningsii .
any organic acid in which both oxygens of a carbamic acid have been replaced by sulfur .
any organic molecular entity that contains at least one c=c bond .
a monocarboxylic acid in which the carbon of the carboxy group is directly attached to a c=c or c#c bond .
an ec 2 .7 .11 .*  ( protein - serine / threonine kinase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of mitogen - activated protein kinase  ( ec 2 .7 .11 .24 )  .
an ec 1 .11 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on peroxide as donors )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of any such enzyme using h2o2 as acceptor and incorporating one oxygen atom of the h2o2 into the product  ( ec 1 .11 .2 .
an ec 1 .11 .2 .*  ( oxidoreductase with h2o2 as acceptor ,  incorporating 1 o atom into product )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of myeloperoxidase  ( ec 1 .11 .2 .2 )  .
any compound that is added to manufactured materials to inhibit ,  suppress ,  or delay the production of flames and so prevent the spread of fire .
an amino cyclitol glycoside that is the 1 - o -  ( 2 - amino - 2 - deoxy - alpha - d - glucopyranoside )  and the 3 - o -  ( 2 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 6 - dideoxy - beta - l - idopyranosyl )  - beta - d - ribofuranoside of 4 , 6 - diamino - 2 , 3 - dihydroxycyclohexane  ( the 1r , 2r , 3s , 4r , 6s diastereoisomer )  .
any inorganic anion with a valency of three .
any inorganic anion with a valency of two .
any inorganic anion with a valency of one .
a diastereoisomeric mixture composed of the enantiomeric pair  ( 2r , 3s )  -  and  ( 2s , 3r )  - cyproconazole in ratio 1:1 with the enantiomeric pair  ( 2r , 3r )  -  and  ( 2s , 3s )  - cyproconazole .
a member of the class of dioxolanes that is 1 , 3 - dioxolane substituted at position 2 by 2 - chloro - 4 -  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy ) phenyl and 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl groups .
a member of the class of benzodioxoles that is 2 , 2 - difluoro - 1 , 3 - benzodioxole substituted at position 4 by a 3 - cyanopyrrol - 4 - yl group .
a racemate composed of equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - tebuconazole .
a triazolobenzothiazole that is  [ 1 , 2 , 4 ] triazolo [ 3 , 4 - b ]  [ 1 , 3 ] benzothiazole which is substituted at position 5 by a methyl group .
a pyridinecarboxamide obtained by formal condensation of the carboxy group of 2 - chloronicotinic acid with the amino group of 4' - chlorobiphenyl - 2 - amine .
an aromatic amide resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 1 - methylcyclohexanecarboxylic acid with the amino group of 4 - amino - 2 , 3 - dichlorophenol .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - diniconazole .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - fenpropidin .
a racemate comprising an equimolar mixture of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - flutriafol .
a penicillin in which the substituent at position 6 of the penam ring is a 2 -  [  ( 4 - ethyl - 2 , 3 - dioxopiperazin - 1 - yl ) carboxamido ]  - 2 - phenylacetamido group .
a  hydroxy - 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone that is 1 , 4 - naphthoquinone in which the hydrogens at positions 2 and 5 are substituted by methyl and hydroxy groups ,  respectively .
an antagonist that binds to and deactivates glucocorticoid receptors .
a member of the class of imidazoles that is 1 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( imidazol - 1 - yl ) ethanol in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyl group .
a 1 -  [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] imidazole that has r configuration .
a 1 -  [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorobenzyloxy )  - 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ) ethyl ] imidazole that has s )  configuration .
an animal metabolite produced by arthropods such as crabs ,  lobsters ,  crayfish ,  shrimps and krill .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia magna .
a crustacean metabolite produced by the genus of small planktonic arthropods ,  daphnia
any salt derived from a member of the class of dithiocarbamic acids by the formal replacement of the hydrogen of the dithiocarboxy group by a metal .
an ec 1 .3 .5 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on ch - ch of donor with a quinone or related compound as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of succinate dehydrogenase  ( quinone )  ,  ec 1 .3 .5 .1 .
a polymyxin having a  ( 6r )  - 6 - methyloctanoyl group at the amino terminus .
a daphnia metabolite produced by the species daphnia tenebrosa .
a member of the class of piperidines that is n - isobutylpiperidine in which a hydrogen of one of the methyl groups is replaced by a p - tert - butylphenyl group .
a 1 -  [ 3 -  ( 4 - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl ] piperidine that has r configuration .
a 1 -  [ 3 -  ( 4 - tert - butylphenyl )  - 2 - methylpropyl ] piperidine that has s configuration .
a member of the class of morpholines that is 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a dodecyl group .
an ec 1 .14 .13 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on paired donors ,  incorporating 1 atom of oxygen ,  with nadh or nadph as one donor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of methylsterol monooxygenase  ( ec 1 .14 .13 .72 )  .
any compound that inhibits the biosynthesis of any sterol .
an ec 1 .3 .1 .*  ( oxidoreductase acting on donor ch - ch group ,  nad (  +  )  or nadp (  +  )  as acceptor )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of delta ( 14 )  - sterol reductase  ( ec 1 .3 .1 .70 )  .
a member of the class of morpholines that is 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a tridecyl group .
a member of the class of morpholines that is 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by an undecyl group .
a member of the class of morpholines that is 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholine in which the hydrogen attached to the nitrogen is replaced by a tetradecyl group .
any metabolite produced by metabolism of a xenobiotic compound in marine macro -  and microorganisms .
any member of the class of chlorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring in which only one substituent is chlorine .
an organosulfate oxoanion obtained by deprotonation of the sulfo group of any alkyl sulfate ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any member of the class of fluorobenzenes containing a mono -  or poly - substituted benzene ring carrying a single fluorine substitutent .
a carboxamide obtained by the formal condensation of the carboxy group of any carboxylic acid with ammonia .
a member of the class of pyrimidines that is pyrimidin - 5 - ylmethanol in which one of the hydrogens attached to the carbon bearing the hydroxy group is replaced by a 2 - chlorophenyl group while the other is replaced by a 4 - chlorophenyl group .
a  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) pyrimidin - 5 - ylmethanol that has r configuration .
a  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  ( 4 - chlorophenyl ) pyrimidin - 5 - ylmethanol that has s configuration .
a tertiary alcohol that is ethanol in which one of the hydrogens at position 1 is replaced by an p - fluorophenyl group ,  the other hydrogen at position 1 is replaced by a p - fluorophenyl group ,  and one of the hydrogens at position 2 is replaced by a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl group .
a 1 -  ( 2 - fluorophenyl )  - 1 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) ethanol that has r configuration .
a 1 -  ( 2 - fluorophenyl )  - 1 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) ethanol that has r configuration .
a member of the class of oxazolidinones that is 5 - ethenyl - 5 - methyl - 2 , 4 - oxazolidinedione in which the imide hydrogen is replaced by a 3 , 5 - dichlorophenyl group .
a 3 -  ( 3 , 5 - dichlorophenyl )  - 5 - ethenyl - 5 - methyl - 2 , 4 - oxazolidinedione that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of vinclozolin .
a sterol biosynthesis inhibitor that acts by inhibiting the c14 demethylation step within fungal steroid biosynthesis .
a 3 -  ( 3 , 5 - dichlorophenyl )  - 5 - ethenyl - 5 - methyl - 2 , 4 - oxazolidinedione that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of vinclozolin .
a tertiary alcohol that is butan - 2 - ol substituted by a 4 - chlorophenyl group at position 2 ,  a cyclopropyl group at position 3 and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl group at position 1 .
the  ( 2r , 3s )  - stereoisomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - cyclopropyl - 1 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - ol .
the  ( 2s , 3s )  - stereoisomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - cyclopropyl - 1 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - ol .
the  ( 2s , 3r )  - stereoisomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - cyclopropyl - 1 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - ol .
the  ( 2r , 3r )  - stereoisomer of 2 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 3 - cyclopropyl - 1 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - ol .
an  epoxide that is oxirane substituted by a 2 - chlorophenyl ,  4 - fluorophenyl and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl groups .
the  ( 2s , 3r )  - stereoisomer of 1 - { [ 3 -  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) oxiran - 2 - yl ] methyl} - 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole .
the  ( 2r , 3s )  - stereoisomer of 1 - { [ 3 -  ( 2 - chlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 4 - fluorophenyl ) oxiran - 2 - yl ] methyl} - 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazole .
a tertiary alcohol that is pentan - 3 - ol substituted by a 4 - chlorophenyl ,  methyl ,  methyl ,  and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl at positions 1 ,  4 ,  4 and 3 respectively .
the  ( s )  - enantiomer of 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 3 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) pentan - 3 - ol .
the  ( r )  - enantiomer of 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  - 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 3 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl ) pentan - 3 - ol .
any derivative of a proteinogenic amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  or a side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
any of the 23 alpha - amino acids that are precursors to proteins ,  and are incorporated into proteins during translation .
any amino - acid that is not naturally encoded in the genetic code of any organism .
any derivative of an amino acid resulting from reaction at an amino group ,  carboxy group ,  side - chain functional group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen by a heteroatom .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the amino function of any sphingoid
a  ( 1e )  - 1 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 2 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) pent - 1 - en - 3 - ol that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of diniconazole .
a member of the class of triazoles that is 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 2 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) pent - 1 - en - 3 - ol substituted at position 1 by a 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl group .
a  ( 1e )  - 1 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 4 , 4 - dimethyl - 2 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) pent - 1 - en - 3 - ol that is the active r - enantiomer of diniconazole .
any  alpha - amino acid which is not a member of the group of 23 proteinogenic amino acids .
a fatty acid anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any 2 - saturated fatty acid .
a dithiocarbamic acid resulting from the formal addition of a molecule of carbon disulfide to each amino group of ethylenediamine .
a member of the class of triazoles that is 1 - hydroxy - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - one in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a 4 - chlorophenyl group .
a 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy )  - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - one that is the  ( r )  - enantiomer of triadimefon .
a 1 -  ( 4 - chlorophenoxy )  - 3 , 3 - dimethyl - 1 -  ( 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) butan - 2 - one that is the  ( s )  - enantiomer of triadimefon .
a proteinogenic amino acid derivative resulting from reaction of l - proline at the amino group or the carboxy group ,  or from the replacement of any hydrogen of l - proline  by a heteroatom .
an ec 3 .5 .1 .*  ( non - peptide linear amide c - n hydrolase )  inhibitor that interferes with the action of nicotinamidase  ( ec 3 .5 .1 .19 )  .
an organic anion in which the charge resides on a sulfur atom .
any organic sulfur anion resulting from the removal of a proton from any n - substituted dithiocarbamic acid .
a member of the class of ureas that is 1h - imidazole - 1 - carboxamide substituted by a propyl and a 2 -  ( 2 , 4 , 6 - trichlorophenoxy ) ethyl group at the amino nitrogen atom .
any eukaryotic metabolite produced during a metabolic reaction in algae including unicellular organisms like chlorella and diatoms to multicellular organisms like giant kelps and brown algae .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the four free amino groups of amikacin ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
the cyclic ketal obtained by formal condensation of 1 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - yl ) ethanone with pentane - 1 , 2 - diol .
a teicoplanin a2 that has 8 - methylnonanoyl as the variable n - acyl group .
a compound that has a structure that is related to miconazole ,  contains an azole  ( imidazole or triazole )  moiety ,  and has significant systemic antifungal properties .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic whose structure contains a quinolone or quinolone - related skeleton .
any antifungal agent used to prevent or treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any substance used in acriculture ,  horticulture ,  forestry ,  etc .
either of the two diastereoisomers of 1 - acetyl - 4 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl ) piperazine in which the imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl group and the aryloxymethyl group are in a cis relationship to each other  -  i .e .
a compound that has significant antifungal properties whose structure contains an imidazole moiety .
a member of the class of triazole that has significant antifungal properties .
heteroorganic entities that are microbial metabolites  ( or compounds derived from them )  which have significant antifungal properties .
any antibiotic antifungal agents whose structure is based on the antifungal agents originally isolated from the fungus strobilurus tenacellus .
any strobilurin antifungal agent that contains a methoxyacrylate group .
a member of the class of aminopyrimidines that is n - phenylpyrimidin - 2 - amine carrying two additional methyl substituents at positions 4 and 6 .
a compound that has significant antifungal properties whose structure contains an amide moiety .
any amide fungicide whose structure contains an anilide group .
an organic aromatic compound that has been used as a fungicide .
compounds that contain a benzimidazole moiety as a key feature of their structure and which have been used as fungicides .
compounds based on 1 , 2 - phenylenediamine in which one or both of the primary amino groups have been derivatised so as to permit subsequent benzimidazole formation ,  and which have been used as fungicides .
compounds that contain a carbamate ester moiety as a key feature of their structure and which have been used as fungicides .
any carbamate fungicide that contains a benzimidazolyl group attached to the nitrogen of the carbamate moiety .
any carbamate fungicide that has a phenyl or substituted - phenyl group attached to the nitrogen of the carbamate group .
any conazole antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any imidazole antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any imidazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in humans or animals .
any conazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in animals or humans .
any triazole antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any triazole antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in humans or animals .
any antibiotic antifungal agent used to treat fungal infections in humans or animals .
any antibiotic antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
an organonitrogen compound that contains an amino group that is attached to a carbon which is itself attached to an olefinic carbon and which has been used as an antifungal drug .
a member of the class of morpholines that has significant antifungal properties .
any morpholine antifungal agent used as a fungicide .
a carboxamide that is the n - dichloroacetyl derivative of  ( 1r , 2s )  - 2 - amino - 3 - fluoro - 1 -  [ 4 -  ( methanesulfonyl ) phenyl ] propan - 1 - ol .
any dicarboximide antifungal agent used as a fungicide .
a dicarboximide fungicide in which the nitrogen of the dicarboximide group is substituted by a dichlorophenyl group .
a dicarboximide fungicide whose structure contains a phthalimide derivative .
a compound that has significant antifungal properties whose structure contains a dicarboximide moiety .
a member of the class of pyrimidines that has significant antifungal properties .
any pyrimidine antifungal agent that has been used for the treatment of fungal infections in humans or animals .
any pyrimidine antifungal agent that has been used as a fungicide .
any pyrimidine fungicide in which the pyrimidine ring is substituted by the nitrogen of an aniline moiety .
a mixture of cyclic polypeptide streptogramin antibiotics produced by streptomyces virginiae ,  s . loidensis ,  s . mitakaensis ,  s . pristina - spiralis ,  s . ostreogriseus ,  and others .
an organonitrogen heterocyclic antibiotic containing a quinolone  ( or quinolone - like )  moiety and which have a fluorine atom attached to the central ring system .
a class of sulfonamides whose members generally have bacteriostatic antibiotic properties .
a member of the class of furans in which the furan ring is substituted by a nitro group and which also has significant antibiotic properties .
an organic cation obtained by protonation of the  six amino groups of framycetin ;  major species at ph 7 .3 .
any organic amino compound that contains two or more amino groups .
any metal which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any penicillin which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any drug which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any beta - lactam antibiotic which causes the onset of an allergic reaction .
any ionophore capable of transportation of potassium ions across membranes .
an organic sodium salt that is the sodium salt of dodecyl hydrogen sulfate .
a drug that acts as an antagonist ,  agonist ,  reverse agonist ,  or in some other fashion when interacting with cellular receptors .
a carboxylic acic anion obtained by deprotonation of the carboxy group of any aromatic carboxylic acid .
a macrolide lactam isolated from streptomyces hygroscopicus consisting of a 29 - membered ring containing 4 trans double bonds ,  three of which are conjugated .
a pyranobenzodioxin and antibiotic that is active against gram - negative bacteria and used  ( as its dihydrochloride pentahydrate )  to treat gonorrhea .
the spiroketal resulting from the formal condensation of 4 - tert - butylcyclohexanone with 3 -  [ ethyl ( propyl ) amino ] propane - 1 , 2 - diol .
a tertiary amine that is n - methyl - 1 - naphthalenemethylamine in which the amino hydrogen is replaced by a 3 -  ( tertbutylethynyl ) allyl group .
a penicillin compound having a 6beta -  [  ( 2r )  - 2 - carboxy - 2 - thiophen - 3 - ylacetyl ] amino side - group .
a racemate comprising equal amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - triadimefon .
a mixture of 4 - alkyl - 2 , 6 - dimethylmorpholines ,  where 'alkyl' is a mixture of c11 to c14 homologues of which 60 - 70% is tridecyl .
a 1 , 8 - naphthyridine derivative that is 4 - oxo - 1 , 4 - dihydro - 1 , 8 - naphthyridine - 3 - carboxylic acid bearing additional 2 , 4 - difluorophenyl ,  fluoro and  6 - amino - 3 - azabicyclo [ 3 .1 .0 ] hex - 3 - yl substituents at positions 1 ,  6 and 7 respectively .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of dexverapamil and  ( s )  - verapamil .
a racemate comprising equimolar amounts of  ( r )  -  and  ( s )  - vinclozolin .
a macrolide that is  ( together with pristinamycin ia )  a component of pristinamycin ,  an oral streptogramin antibiotic produced by streptomyces pristinaespiralis .
a material entity of anatomical origin  ( part of or deriving from an organism )  that has as its parts a maximally connected cell compartment surrounded by a plasma membrane .
the production of new individuals that contain some portion of genetic material inherited from one or more parent organisms .
the division of a cell nucleus into two nuclei ,  with dna and other nuclear contents distributed between the daughter nuclei .
relaying of environmental signals promoting filamentous growth .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of its own cells or those of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in the host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into an amino acid in a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to amino acids within a protein .
any process of the immune system that can potentially contribute to an immune response .
any process involved in the development or functioning of the immune system ,  an organismal system for calibrated responses to potential internal or invasive threats .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases made as part of a defense response  ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune system process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of an immune effector process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of a response to biotic stimulus .
a developmental process in which a progressive change in the state of some part of an organism specifically contributes to its ability to form offspring .
a molecular process that can be carried out by the action of a single macromolecular machine ,  usually via direct physical interactions with other molecular entities .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any nucleic acid .
any molecular function by which a gene product interacts selectively and non - covalently with dna  ( deoxyribonucleic acid )  .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an rna molecule or a portion thereof .
catalysis of a biochemical reaction at physiological temperatures .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with one or more specific sites on a receptor molecule ,  a macromolecule that undergoes combination with a hormone ,  neurotransmitter ,  drug or intracellular messenger to initiate a change in cell function .
enables the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells .
the selective ,  non - covalent ,  often stoichiometric ,  interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
a location ,  relative to cellular compartments and structures ,  occupied by a macromolecular machine when it carries out a molecular function .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
an intracellular non - membrane - bounded organelle comprising a matrix of coalesced lipids surrounded by a phospholipid monolayer .
a process in which rna is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process of introducing a phosphate group on to a protein .
the hydrolysis of proteins into smaller polypeptides and / or amino acids by cleavage of their peptide bonds .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element phosphorus or compounds that contain phosphorus ,  usually in the form of a phosphate group  ( po4 )  .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving the phosphate group ,  the anion or salt of any phosphoric acid .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organic or inorganic compounds that contain nitrogen .
the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  or cellular components  ( such as complexes and organelles )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter ,  pore or motor protein .
a vesicle - mediated transport process in which cells take up external materials or membrane constituents by the invagination of a small region of the plasma membrane to form a new membrane - bounded vesicle .
the evagination of a membrane ,  resulting in formation of a vesicle .
the cellular catabolic process in which cells digest parts of their own cytoplasm ;  allows for both recycling of macromolecular constituents under conditions of cellular stress and remodeling the intracellular structure for cell differentiation .
the directed ,  self - propelled movement of a cell or subcellular component without the involvement of an external agent such as a transporter or a pore .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
reactions ,  triggered in response to the presence of a foreign body or the occurrence of an injury ,  which result in restriction of damage to the organism attacked or prevention / recovery from the infection caused by the attack .
any immune system process that functions in the calibrated response of an organism to a potential internal or invasive threat .
a defense response that is mediated by cells .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle within a cell .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of or within a vacuole .
the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that mediates interactions between a cell and its surroundings .
the cellular process in which a signal is conveyed to trigger a change in the activity or state of a cell .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with chitin ,  a linear polysaccharide consisting of beta -  ( 1 -  > 4 )  - linked n - acetyl - d - glucosamine residues .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a drug ,  any naturally occurring or synthetic substance ,  other than a nutrient ,  that ,  when administered or applied to an organism ,  affects the structure or functioning of the organism ;  in particular ,  any such substance used in the diagnosis ,  prevention ,  or treatment of disease .
any process specifically pertinent to the functioning of integrated living units: cells ,  tissues ,  organs ,  and organisms .
the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
any biological process that results in permanent cessation of all vital functions of a cell .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond .
the multiplication or reproduction of cells ,  resulting in the expansion of a cell population .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of cell proliferation .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  including the breakdown of carbon compounds with the liberation of energy for use by the cell or organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ;  typically the energy - requiring part of metabolism in which simpler substances are transformed into more complex ones .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of toxin ,  a poisonous compound  ( typically a protein )  that is produced by cells or organisms and that can cause disease when introduced into the body or tissues of an organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a toxin ,  a poisonous compound  ( typically a protein )  that is produced by cells or organisms and that can cause disease when introduced into the body or tissues of an organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
the rapid ,  localized death of plant cells in response to invasion by a pathogen .
the process in which anatomical structures are generated and organized .
the physiological and developmental changes that occur in a spore following release from dormancy up to the earliest signs of growth  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of signal transduction .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular defense response .
the infolding of a membrane .
any endogenous process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the plant hypersensitive response .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of autophagy .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process that modulates a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell communication .
the cellular component assembly that is part of the initial shaping of the component during its developmental progression .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that modulates the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that increases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
a process which begins when a cell receives an internal or external signal and activates a series of biochemical events  ( signaling pathway )  .
the directed movement of proteins into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids ,  compounds soluble in an organic solvent but not ,  or sparingly ,  in an aqueous solvent .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a vesicle .
a cellular transport process in which transported substances are moved in membrane - bounded vesicles ;  transported substances are enclosed in the vesicle lumen or located in the vesicle membrane .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
the process of introducing a phosphate group into a molecule ,  usually with the formation of a phosphoric ester ,  a phosphoric anhydride or a phosphoric amide .
catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
catalysis of the transfer of a phosphorus - containing group from one compound  ( donor )  to another  ( acceptor )  .
catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any cellular component of a host cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in many of the chemical changes of compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
a reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism ,  in the case of self - fertilizing hermaphrodites ,  e .g .
the biological process in which new individuals are produced by either a single cell or a group of cells ,  in the absence of any sexual process .
the cellular process that ensures successive accurate and complete genome replication and chromosome segregation .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals by one or two organisms .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of anatomical structure morphogenesis .
the aggregation ,  arrangement and bonding together of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
the entirety of a process in which information is transmitted within a biological system .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling process .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
the process in which relatively unspecialized cells ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any carbohydrate ,  which includes monosaccharides ,  oligosaccharides and polysaccharides as well as substances derived from monosaccharides by reduction of the carbonyl group  ( alditols )  ,  by oxidation of one or more hydroxy groups to afford the corresponding aldehydes ,  ketones ,  or carboxylic acids ,  or by replacement of one or more hydroxy group ( s )  by a hydrogen atom .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any polysaccharide ,  a polymer of many  ( typically more than 10 )  monosaccharide residues linked glycosidically .
the process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of a cellular spore ,  a cell form that can be used for dissemination ,  for survival of adverse conditions because of its heat and dessication resistance ,  and / or for reproduction .
the formation of spores derived from the products of an asexual cell division .
the process in which a multicellular organism ,  a unicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
growth of fungi as threadlike ,  tubular structures that may contain multiple nuclei and may or may not be divided internally by septa ,  or cross - walls .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is changed .
the function of interacting  ( directly or indirectly )  with receptors such that the proportion of receptors in the active form is increased .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing ,  the process in which a cell brings about the death of another cell ,  either in the same or a different organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell killing .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the covalent alteration of one or more amino acid residues within a protein .
a localization process that acts on a protein complex ;  the complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process in an organism that results in the killing of cells of another organism ,  including in some cases the death of the other organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to an external stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to an external stimulus .
the slender tubular outgrowth first produced by most spores in germination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within cells .
any process that modulates the activity of a transporter .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of a transporter .
any process that activates or increases the activity of a transporter .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an integrated living unit: an anatomical structure  ( which may be a subcellular structure ,  cell ,  tissue ,  or organ )  ,  or organism over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of any process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
the process in which cellular structures ,  including whole cells or cell parts ,  are generated and organized .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of an organelle .
the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in a cell .
a process in which a protein is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a location within an organelle .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
cell death in a host resulting from activation of host endogenous cellular processes after direct or indirect interaction with a symbiont  ( defined as the smaller of two ,  or more ,  organisms engaged in symbiosis ,  a close interaction encompassing mutualism through parasitism )  .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hypersensitive response in a plant .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hypersensitive response in a plant .
the formation of spores derived from the products of meiosis .
the process in which a cell gives rise to an endospore ,  a dormant ,  highly resistant spore with a thick wall that forms within the mother cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore formation from the products of mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore formation from the products of meiosis .
a process in which a protein transports or maintains the localization of another protein to the nucleus .
any process in which a protein is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
a protein complex localization process that takes place at the cellular level ;  as a result ,  a protein complex is transported to ,  or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell .
the process in which a signal is passed on to downstream components within the cell ,  which become activated themselves to further propagate the signal and finally trigger a change in the function or state of the cell .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of another organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein ,  in a second organism .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a small molecule ,  any low molecular weight ,  monomeric ,  non - encoded molecule .
the covalent alteration of one or more amino acids occurring in proteins ,  peptides and nascent polypeptides  ( co - translational ,  post - translational modifications )  .
receiving a signal and transmitting it in the cell to initiate a change in cell activity .
the increase in size or mass of an entire organism ,  a part of an organism or a cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the growth of all or part of an organism so that it occurs at its proper speed ,  either globally or in a specific part of the organism's development .
self - propelled movement of a cell or organism from one location to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of locomotion of a cell or organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiotic nuclear division ,  the process in which the nucleus of a diploid cell divides twice forming four haploid cells ,  one or more of which usually function as gametes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell proliferation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore formation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the rupture of cell membranes and the loss of cytoplasm .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups into a molecule .
any process that stops ,  prevents or decreases the rate of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of addition of phosphate groups to a molecule .
the directed movement of an amide ,  any compound containing one ,  two ,  or three acyl groups attached to a nitrogen atom ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death ,  cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes .
any process that activates or increases the activity of an enzyme .
any process that stops or reduces the activity of an enzyme .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  bounded by a single or double lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  not bounded by a lipid bilayer membrane and occurring within the cell .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a mycotoxin ,  any poisonous substance produced by a fungus .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a mycotoxin ,  any poisonous substance produced by a fungus .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that stops or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein binding .
the covalent alteration of one or more monomeric units in a polypeptide ,  polynucleotide ,  polysaccharide ,  or other biological macromolecule ,  resulting in a change in its properties .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolism ,  the chemical reactions and pathways involving compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
the accumulation of pigment in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  either by increased deposition or by increased number of cells .
the aggregation of coloring matter in a particular location in an organism ,  tissue or cell ,  occurring in response to some external stimulus .
the aggregation of coloring matter in a particular location in a cell ,  occurring in response to some external stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of kinase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a phosphate group ,  usually from atp ,  to a substrate molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a multi - organism process ,  a process in which an organism has an effect on another organism of the same or different species .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
the formation of spores derived from the products of meiosis .
the formation of a cellular spore derived from the products of mitosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation ,  the process whose specific outcome is the progression of a spore over time ,  from its initiation to the mature structure .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of cellular spores derived from the products of meiosis .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of cellular spores derived from the products of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of cellular spores derived from the products of meiosis .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a cellular spore derived from the products of mitosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a cellular spore derived from the products of mitosis .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the formation of a cellular spore derived from the products of mitosis .
any process in which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which the symbiont activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of host enzyme activity .
the process in which a symbiont organism effects a change in the structure or processes of its host organism .
any process in which a symbiont organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any process that is carried out at the cellular level ,  but not necessarily restricted to a single cell ,  in its host organism .
the process in which a symbiont organism effects a change in its host's cell cycle through direct interactions with the host cell macromolecular machinery .
the process in which a symbiont organism stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of its host's progression through its cell cycle via direct interactions with the host cell macromolecular machinery .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular component biogenesis ,  a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  and arrangement of constituent parts of a cellular component .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
the increase in size or mass of an organism occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring in ,  on or near the exterior of its host organism .
the increase in size or mass of an organism ,  occurring within the cells or tissues of the host organism .
obsolete .the progression of a symbiont from an initial condition to a later condition ,  within the cells or tissues of its host organism .
obsolete .any process in which the symbiont regulates its progression from an initial condition to a later condition ,  on or near the cells or tissues of the host organism .
obsolete .any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the symbiont's progression from an initial condition to a later condition ,  on or near the cells or tissues of the host organism .
obsolete .any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the symbiont's progression from an initial condition to a later condition ,  on or near the cells or tissues of the host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring in ,  on or near the exterior of its host organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring in ,  on or near the exterior of its host organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the progression of an organism from an initial condition to a later condition ,  occurring in ,  on or near the exterior of its host organism .
obsolete .a secondary organism with which the first organism is interacting .
any constituent part of a secondary organism with which the first organism is interacting .
the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of substances ,  carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass ,  as carried out by individual cells .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving a specific protein ,  rather than of proteins in general ,  occurring at the level of an individual cell .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of proteins in a second organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the function of proteins in a second organism .
a process in which an organism has a negative effect on the functioning of the second organism's cells .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
penetration by an organism into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism .
any process in which an organism has an effect on an organism of a different species .
obsolete .any constituent part of an organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function .
obsolete .any constituent part of the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
obsolete .any constituent part of the nucleus ,  a membrane - bounded organelle of eukaryotic cells in which chromosomes are housed and replicated .
obsolete .a constituent part of an intracellular organelle ,  an organized structure of distinctive morphology and function ,  occurring within the cell .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
a process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in a second organism .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of secondary metabolites ,  the compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
a biological process that directly contributes to the process of producing new individuals ,  involving another organism .
any process that is carried out at the cellular level which involves another organism of the same or different species .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a macromolecular complex .
innate immune responses are defense responses mediated by germline encoded components that directly recognize components of potential pathogens .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response ,  the organism's first line of defense against infection .
the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
a process that is carried out at the cellular level which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of external structures that lie outside the plasma membrane and surround the entire cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation ,  the process in which relatively unspecialized cells acquire specialized structural and functional features .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell differentiation .
a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of endocytosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the innate immune response .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of meiosis .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the hydrolysis of a peptide bond or bonds within a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of sporulation .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytolysis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cytolysis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of growth ,  the increase in size or mass of all or part of an organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphates .
the directed movement of substances within a cell .
the activity of a gene product that interacts with a receptor to effect a change in the activity of the receptor .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any monosaccharide .
the creation of two or more organelles by division of one organelle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the rate of a response to a stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to a stimulus .
the developmental process pertaining to the initial formation of an anatomical structure from unspecified parts .
the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an anatomical structure from an initial condition to its mature state .
a biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a cell over time from an initial condition to a later condition .
any process involved in the controlled self - propelled movement of a cell that results in translocation of the cell from one place to another .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the immune response ,  the immunological reaction of an organism to an immunogenic stimulus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a biological process .
any process that modulates the activity of an enzyme .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of a multicellular organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular process ,  any of those that are carried out at the cellular level ,  but are not necessarily restricted to a single cell .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate ,  or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of lipids .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances  ( such as macromolecules ,  small molecules ,  ions )  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of development ,  the biological process whose specific outcome is the progression of an organism over time from an initial condition  ( e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that activates or increases the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that stops or reduces the rate or extent of binding ,  the selective interaction of a molecule with one or more specific sites on another molecule .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of dna binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process involved in the formation ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of cell structures ,  including the plasma membrane and any external encapsulating structures such as the cell wall and cell envelope .
the directed movement of substances into ,  out of ,  or within the nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving nitrogen or nitrogenous compounds .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving phosphorus or compounds containing phosphorus .
any process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported ,  tethered to or otherwise maintained in a specific location .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the rate of the cellular defense response .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of chemical reactions and pathways involving a protein .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the movement of a cellular component .
progression through the phases of the meiotic cell cycle ,  in which canonically a cell replicates to produce four offspring with half the chromosomal content of the progenitor cell via two nuclear divisions .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of hydrolase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of various bonds .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that stops or reduces the rate of transferase activity ,  the catalysis of the transfer of a group ,  e .g .
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the rate or extent of progression through the meiotic cell cycle .
a cellular localization process whereby a substance or cellular entity ,  such as a protein complex or organelle ,  is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location within a cell including the localization of substances or cellular entities to the cell membrane .
any process ,  occuring in a cell ,  that localizes a substance or cellular component .
any process in which a cell is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
a biological process which involves another organism of the same or different species .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the killing by an organism of cells in another organism .
any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
any process that modulates the rate or extent of progression through the cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of nuclear division ,  the partitioning of the nucleus and its genetic information .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the structure or processes of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
a process in which an organism has a negative effect on the functioning of the second organism's cells ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process mediated by an organism that results in the death of cells in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within the cell or cells of the host organism .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host organism .
any process in which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in the host organism .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of host enzyme activity .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of host protease activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of a host protein via a direct interaction .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the functional activity of host proteins .
the directed movement of an organism or motile cell on ,  within or near its host organism .
the process in which an organism effects a change in host enzyme activity .
the process in which an organism effects a change in host peptidase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protease activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein ,  in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in peptidase activity ,  the catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a protein ,  in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in enzyme activity in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the functional activity of proteins in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
the process in which an organism effects a change in the function of proteins in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of substances within the cell or cells of a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of programmed cell death in a second organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process in which an organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent to which it enters into the host organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of peptidase activity ,  the hydrolysis of peptide bonds within proteins .
a compound molecular function in which an effector function is controlled by one or more regulatory components .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways involving macromolecules ,  any molecule of high relative molecular mass ,  the structure of which essentially comprises the multiple repetition of units derived ,  actually or conceptually ,  from molecules of low relative molecular mass .
any process that decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
any process that modulates the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that increases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that decreases the rate frequency or extent of a phase of elevated metabolic activity ,  during which oxygen consumption increases ;  this leads to the production ,  by an nadh dependent system ,  of hydrogen peroxide  ( h2o2 )  ,  superoxide anions and hydroxyl radicals .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a process in which a cell ,  a substance ,  or a cellular entity is transported to ,  or maintained in a specific location within or in the membrane of a cell .
any process that decreases the rate ,  frequency or extent of necrotic cell death .
any process that decreases the rate or frequency of cell death .
any process that modulates the rate ,  frequency ,  or extent of vesicle - mediated transport ,  the directed movement of substances ,  either within a vesicle or in the vesicle membrane ,  into ,  out of or within a cell .
a process which results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a membrane .
a cellular process involving delivery of a portion of the cytoplasm to lysosomes or to the plant or fungal vacuole that does not involve direct transport through the endocytic or vacuolar protein sorting  ( vps )  pathways .
any process that modulates a measurable attribute of any biological process ,  quality or function .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a molecular function ,  an elemental biological activity occurring at the molecular level ,  such as catalysis or binding .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of a protein to a specific location .
a type of cell death that is morphologically characterized by an increasingly translucent cytoplasm ,  swelling of organelles ,  minor ultrastructural modifications of the nucleus  ( specifically ,  dilatation of the nuclear membrane and condensation of chromatin into small ,  irregular ,  circumscribed patches )  and increased cell volume  ( oncosis )  ,  culminating in the disruption of the plasma membrane and subsequent loss of intracellular contents .
any process in which a macromolecule is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location at the level of a cell .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell wall .
a process that results in the assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of the cell wall ,  the rigid or semi - rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant ,  fungal and most prokaryotic cells ,  maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis .
the directed movement of organic substances into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  or within a multicellular organism by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
the directed movement of nitrogen - containing compounds into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
a process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cellular component .
development of slender tubular outgrowth first produced by most symbiont spores immediately following germination on or near its host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of germ tube formation on or near host .
any process that activates ,  maintains or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of germ tube formation on or near host .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of germ tube formation on or near host .
any process in which a symbiont organism increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy in the host cell .
any process in which a symbiont organism modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy in the host cell .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent to which it enters into the host organism ,  where the two organisms are in a symbiotic interaction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the chemical reactions and pathways within a cell or an organism involving those compounds formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a response to stress .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a cellular response to stress .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association in a relationship in which both organisms benefit from each other .
any process that increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the process in which a multicellular organism or a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike ,  filamentous shape .
any process that increases the rate ,  frequency or extent of a cellular process that is involved in the progression of biochemical and morphological phases and events that occur in a cell during successive cell replication or nuclear replication events .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of peptides ,  compounds of two or more amino acids where the alpha carboxyl group of one is bound to the alpha amino group of another ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with an organic cyclic compound ,  any molecular entity that contains carbon arranged in a cyclic molecular structure .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with a carbohydrate derivative .
reactions triggered in response to the presence of another organism that act to protect the cell or organism from damage caused by that organism .
the directed movement of some substance from outside of a cell into a cell .
a molecular function that modulates the activity of a gene product or complex .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of type b trichothecene vomitoxin ,  a poisonous substance produced by some species of fungi and predominantly occurs in grains such as wheat ,  barley and oats .
a part of a cellular organism that is either an immaterial entity or a material entity with granularity above the level of a protein complex but below that of an anatomical system .
one of the two nuclear divisions that occur as part of the meiotic cell cycle .
catalytic activity that acts to modify a protein .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with any protein or protein complex from a different species ,  for example a pathogen molecule binding to a host protein  ( a complex of two or more proteins that may include other nonprotein molecules )  .
any process in which a symbiont organism decreases the frequency ,  rate or extent of autophagy in the host cell .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of a protein or other molecule binding to a receptor .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of protein localization to nucleus .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolite biosynthetic process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolite biosynthetic process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of secondary metabolite biosynthetic process .
interacting selectively and non - covalently with heterocyclic compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways involving organonitrogen compound .
the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an organic substance ,  any molecular entity containing carbon .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular signal transduction .
a process that is part of the meiotic cell cycle .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of vacuolar transport .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell wall organization or biogenesis .
modulation of host cell motility by a symbiont of that host .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of asexual reproduction .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of asexual reproduction .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of asexual reproduction .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cellular protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore germination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore germination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of spore germination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of establishment of protein localization .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of membrane invagination .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of rna binding .
any process in which an organism stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of intracellular transport in the host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of cell motility .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of reproductive process .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of a signaling receptor activity .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of signaling receptor activity .
the curation status of the term .
data about an ontology part is a data item about a part of an ontology ,  for example a term
the reason for which a term has been deprecated .
a denotator type indicates how a term should be interpreted from an ontological perspective .
a disposition to initiate processes that result in a disorder .
a material entity with a pathogenic disposition .
a process that attenuates an immune response .
a process by which a disorder comes into existence .
a material entity which is clinically abnormal and part of an extended organism .
a dependent entity that inheres in a bearer by virtue of how the bearer is related to other entities
a quality inhering in a substance by virtue of the amount of the bearer's there is mixed with another substance .
a quality of a single physical entity inhering in the bearer by virtue of the bearer's size or shape or structure .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the whether the bearer differs from normal or average .
the number of entities of this type that are part of the whole organism .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to detect or perceive external stimulation .
a quality of a single process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's occurrence per unit time .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer or a population by virtue of the bearer's disposition to survive and develop normally or the number of surviving individuals in a given population .
a quality of a process which ends earlier than the natural end time or reference process .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's deviation from normal or average .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting no deviation from normal or average .
a quality denoting the lack of an entity .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's existence .
an amount which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively high .
a duration quality of a process which is relatively low .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking sensitivity toward an external stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having sensitivity toward an external stimulus .
a viability quality inhering in a population by virtue of the bearer's long term survival inability .
a rate which is relatively low .
a rate which is relatively high .
a quality inhering in an entity by virtue of the bearer's propensity to resist an external stimulus .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to resist to a stimulus .
a concentration quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's exhibiting concentration .
a concentration which is higher relative to the normal or average .
a concentration which is lower relative to the normal or average .
a resistance quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's resistance to a stimulus .
a quality which inheres in an process .
a quality which inheres in a continuant .
a process quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's magnitude of the temporal extent between the starting and ending point .
a monadic quality of continuant that exists at the cellular level of organisation .
a cellular quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of bearer's number of nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having no nucleus .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having two nuclei .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one nucleus .
a quality of a process inhering in bearer by virtue of the bearer's disposition to respond to stimulation .
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is higher than normal / average .
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is lower than normal / average .
a sensitivity of a process which is higher than normal or average .
a sensitivity of a process which is lower than normal or average .
the number of parts of a particular type that the bearer entity has .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a processual part as specified by the additional entity .
a quality of a process inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's processual parts .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively high .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part = n ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having more than one nucleus .
an organismal quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting cells .
a cellularity quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's consisting of more than one cell .
a quality that inheres in an entire organism or part of an organism .
an amount which is relatively low .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
a quality of physical entities inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's lacking a physical part as specified by the additional entity .
the bearer of this quality has_part  <  n and has_part  >  0 of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
the bearer of this quality has_part  >  n of the indicated entity type ,  where n is the normal amount for a comparable organism .
an amount which normal .
an occurrence which is relatively high .
an occurrence which is relatively low .
having extra or fewer parts .
a quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the severity of infectious disease caused by the bearer in a target organism .
a phenotype where the degree to which a pathogen  ( species or strain )  is able to cause infectious disease in another organism is decreased  ( i .e .
a phenotype where the degree to which a pathogen  ( species or strain )  is able to cause infectious disease in another organism is increased  ( i .e .
a quality which inheres in a molecular entity ,  a single molecule ,  atom ,  ion ,  radical etc .
a quality that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is decreased compared to normal or average .
a quality of a process that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a quality of an object that has a value that is increased compared to normal or average .
a temporal distribution pattern of process occurrences within a regulation / reference process .
the temporal relation between the end of the process with respect to a reference process .
a nucleate quality inhering in a bearer by virtue of the bearer's having one or more nucleus .
the ability of a pathogen to produce an infectious disease or disorder in an another organism .
a rate which is relatively normal .
a quality of an object that has a value that is normal or average .
a concentration which is relatively normal or average .
a resistance to a stimulus which is relatively normal or average
a sensitivity toward an external stimulus which is relatively normal or average
a quality of aprocess that has a value that is normal or average .
a virulence which is relatively normal or average
a duration quality of a process which is relatively normal .
an occurrence which is relatively normal .
a sensitivity of a process which is relatively normal .
any of the set of observable characteristics arising from the interaction of a potentially pathogenic organism with a host organism .
any of the set of observable characteristics of a single organism resulting from the interaction of its genotype with the environment .
a single organism phenotype that is observed at the level of a tissue  ( eg leaf ,  inflorescence ,  ear or kidney )  .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen ,  to produce an infectious disease in another organism is unaffected  ( i .e the same as wild - type ,  this could be pathogenicity present or pathogenicity absent )  .
a phenotype where the pathogenicity is abnormal  ( i .e different than wild - type ) 
a phenotype that is relevant to pathogenicity .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen effector to produce an infectious disease is absent .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen effector to produce an infectious disease is present .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen ,  to produce an infectious disease in another organism is obtained  ( pathogenicity was absent and is now present )  .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen ,  to produce an infectious disease in another organism is abolished  ( pathogenicity was present and is now absent )  .
a phenotype that is relevant to virulence .
a phenotype where the degree to which a pathogen  ( species or strain )  is able to cause infectious disease in another organism is unchanged  ( i .e .
a phenotype where virulence is abnormal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype which is normal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype which is abnormal  ( i .e .
a single species phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer lipid droplets than normal .
a lethal single organism cell level phenotype resulting from altering a gene product that is essential for the life of the organism .
a single species population phenotype in which a population shows decreased resistance to a chemical stimulus during growth .
a single species population phenotype in which a population shows decreased resistance to a chemical stimulus .
a single species population phenotype in which a population shows increased resistance to a chemical stimulus .
a pathogen penetration assay phenotype  ( assessing the organism's ability to penetrate a given substance / membrane )  which is abnormal  ( i .e .
a single species pathogen penetration phenotype in which pathogen penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane is present .
a pathogen phenotype indicating that the pathogen is able to penetrate a given experimental substance / membrane in the same manner as the wild - type .
a single species phenotype in which the pathogen's ability to contine to grow after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay is normal  ( i .e indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the formation of the pathogen penetration structure is normal  ( i .e same as wild - type )  when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen penetration phenotype in which pathogen penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane is absent .
a single species phenotype in which the pathogen's ability to contine to grow after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay is abnormal  ( i .e indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the formation of the pathogen penetration structure is abnormal  ( i .e different than wild - type )  when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is abnormal .
a single species phenotype that is observed at the level of an individual cell .
a pathogen host phenotype where the mutualism phenotype is normal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size ,  shape ,  or structure of lipid droplets is abnormal .
a single species population phenotype where the morphology of a colony growing in filamentous form is abnormal .
a phenotype in which the interaction is the same as the wild - type ,  no asymptomatic colonisation or disease formation symptoms are visible .
a phenotype in which the balance of symbiotic mutualism has been disrupted compared to the normal interaction .
a single species phenotype where reproduction is abnormal .
a single species phenotype where reproduction is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a single species phenotype where the asexual reproduction process in which new individuals are produced by either a single cell or a group of cells ,  in the absence of any sexual process is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  ( go:0019954 )  .
a single species phenotype where the sexual reproduction process in which new individuals are produced by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )   ( go:0019953 )  .
a single species phenotype where the asexual reproduction process in which new individuals are produced by either a single cell or a group of cells ,  in the absence of any sexual process is abnormal  ( go:0019954 )  .
a single species phenotype where the sexual reproduction process in which new individuals are produced by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism is abnormal  ( go:0019953 )  .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of sexual spores is increased .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of sexual spores is decreased .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spores is increased .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spores is decreased .
a reproductive phenotype in which the occurrence of asexual spore formation happens later than normal .
a reproductive phenotype in which the occurrence of asexual spore formation happens sooner than normal .
a reproductive phenotype in which the occurrence of sexual spore formation happens later than normal .
a reproductive phenotype in which the occurrence of sexual spore formation happens sooner than normal .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of sexual spores is normal   ( i .e .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spores is normal   ( i .e .
a reproductive phenotype where asexual spores are absent  ( fao:0000023 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where sexual spores are absent  ( fao:0000017 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where asexual spores are present  ( fao:0000017 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where asexual spores are present  ( fao:0000023 )  .
a reproductive morphology phenotype where the size of the asexual spore is increased .
a reproductive morphology phenotype where the size of the asexual spore is decreased .
a reproductive morphology phenotype where the size of the sexual spore is increased .
a reproductive morphology phenotype where the size of the sexual spore is decreased .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of coloring matter in a sexual spore cell is altered .
a reproductive morphology phenotype where the size of the sexual spore is abnormal .
a reproductive morphology phenotype where the shape of the sexual spore is abnormal .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of sexual spores is abnormal .
a reproductive morphology phenotype where the shape of the asexual spore is abnormal .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of coloring matter in an asexual spore cell is altered .
a reproductive phenotype where the process of sexual sporulation ,  the formation of spores from the products of meiosis ,  is abnormal  ( go:0034293 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where the process of asexual sporulation ,  the formation of spores derived from the products of an asexual cell division ,  is abnormal  ( go:0030436 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where the process of sexual sporulation ,  the formation of spores from the products of meiosis ,  is normal  ( go:0034293 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where the process of asexual sporulation ,  the formation of spores derived from the products of an asexual cell division ,  is normal  ( go:0030436 )  .
a reproductive morphology phenotype where the size of the asexual spore is abnormal .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spores is abnormal .
a reproductive process phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division is abnormal  ( go:0007135 )  .
a reproductive process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division is abnormal  ( go:0007127 )  .
a reproductive process phenotype in which the second meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( i .e .
a reproductive process phenotype in which the first meiotic nuclear division is normal  ( go:0007127 )  .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the size of pathogen penetration stuctures are increased when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the size of pathogen penetration stuctures are decreased when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration stuctures are increased when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration stuctures are decreased when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which formation of pathogen specialized penetration structure begins later than normal when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which formation of pathogen specialized penetration structure begins sooner than normal when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the  ability of the pathogen to  form a specialized penetration structure is abolished when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration begins later than normal when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
penetration structure formed but not functioning in the same manner as the wild type .
a single species pathogen penetration phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane is increased .
a single species pathogen penetration phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane is decreased
a single species phenotype in which the pathogen's ability to contine to grow after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay is abolished .
a single species phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen growth after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay is increased .
a single species phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen growth after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay is decreased .
a single species phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen growth after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay begins later than normal .
a single species phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen growth after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay begins sooner than normal .
a single species phenotype where the asexual reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals ,  from their formation to the mature structures is abnormal  ( go:0048608 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where the process of endospore formation ,  in which a cell gives rise to an endospore ,  a dormant ,  highly resistant spore with a thick wall that forms within the mother cell is abnormal .
a single species population phenotype in which the population grows normally during the yeast - form lifecycle stage .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration begins sooner than normal when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a reproductive phenotype where the morphology of the asexual spore is abnormal  ( fao:0000023 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where the morphology of the asexual spore is normal  ( fao:0000023 )  .
a single species phenotype where the asexual reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals ,  from their formation to the mature structures is normal  ( go:0048608 )  .
a reproductive phenotype where the morphology of the sexual spore is abnormal  ( fao:0000017 )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the binding of one pathogen protein to one host protein .
a single species phenotype that affects the binding of one protein to another .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another is abnormal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another is normal  ( i .e .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another does not occur .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which a mutation causes a gene product to bind to one or more proteins with different specificity from normal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to a protein complex is abnormal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs for a shorter time than normal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to another occurs to a lower extent ,  and for a shorter time ,  than normal .
a single organism phenotype that affects rna binding .
a single organism phenotype that affects dna binding .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one protein to a protein complex is normal  ( i .e .
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single organism  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single species phenotype that affects the binding of a gene product to another substance .
a single species phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  composition or morphology of a cell part is normal  ( i .e .
a single species phenotype which affects the pathogen's ability to penetrate a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay .
a single species phenotype which affects the reproductive process .
a single species population phenotype that affects the rate or extent of the increase in the number of organisms in the population  ( i .e organismal growth and reproduction )  .
a single species population phenotype in which the population grows abnormally during the yeast - form lifecycle stage .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the binding of a gene product to another substance .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects rna binding .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is abolished  ( it was present and is now absent )  .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is normal .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single species population phenotype in which affects the population growth during the yeast - form lifecycle stage .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects dna binding .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a phenotype where the immune system process of host tissue hypersensitive response modulated by the pathogen is absent  ( go:0009626 )  .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype which affects the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a phenotype where the immune system process of host tissue hypersensitive response modulated by the pathogen is delayed  ( go:0009626 )  .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a phenotype where the immune system process of host tissue hypersensitive response modulated by the pathogen is present  ( go:0009626 )  .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single species hyphal colony morphology phenotype where the aerial height of the filamentous colony is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects a transporter activity .
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen  ( molecular function?? ) 
a pathogen host interaction  ( molecular function?? ) 
a single species hyphal colony morphology phenotype where the aerial height of the filamentous colony is increased .
a single species hyphal colony morphology phenotype where the aerial height of the filamentous colony is decreased .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one pathogen protein to one host protein occurs with a different specificity than normal .
a phenotype in which the balance of symbiotic mutualism has been disrupted compared to the normal interaction and the endosymbiont organism is able to show greater biomass within the host and / or the formation of visible disease formation symptoms compared to the normal interaction .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one pathogen protein to one host protein occurs for a shorter time than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one pathogen protein to one host protein occurs to a lower extent ,  and for a shorter time ,  than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one pathogen protein to one host protein occurs to a lesser extent than normal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one pathogen protein to one host protein occurs to a greater extent than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the toxin biosynthetic process is abnormal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen produced deoxynivalenol usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of secondary metabolites ,  the compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in many of the chemical changes of compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the pathogen biosynthesis of deoxynivalenol is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the pathogen biosynthesis of deoxynivalenol is abnormal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the toxin biosynthetic process is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of toxin ,  a poisonous compound  ( typically a protein )  that is produced by cells or organisms and that can cause disease when introduced into the body or tissues of an organism .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen produced deoxynivalenol usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the pathogen produced deoxynivalenol usually present during infection is present as normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the pathogen produced deoxynivalenol usually present during infection is absent or at a level too low to detect .
a single species phenotype that affects the localization of a structure or substance in a cell .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the localization of a structure or substance in a cell .
a single organism phenotype that affects the localization of a protein in a cell .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the localization of a protein in a cell .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of a protein in a cell is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the localization of a pathogen protein in a host cell differs from normal .
a single organism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein complex is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the localization of a protein complex is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abnormal .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abnormal .
a single organism phenotype in which a protein does not localize to ,  and is therefore absent from ,  a place where it is normally found .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of a pathogen protein to a host structure or compartment is abolished  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of a pathogen protein to the host nucleus is abolished .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is abolished  ( go:0034504 )  .
a single organism phenotype that affects the localization of an rna in a cell .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the localization of an rna in a cell .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of an rna in a cell is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of an rna in a cell is abnormal .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of an rna in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of an rna in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction  ( cell process??? ) 
a single organism cell phenotype that affects a transport process .
a single organism phenotype in which a specific transport process is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which a specific transport process is abnormal .
a single organism cellular process phenotype in which protein transport is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction  ( cellular process?? ) 
a single organism cellular process phenotype in which endocytosis is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction  ( cellular process??? ) 
a single organism cellular process phenotype in which nuclear transport is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction  ( cellular process?? ) 
a single organism cellular process phenotype in which protein transport is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction  ( cellular process?? ) 
a single organism cellular process phenotype in which vacuolar transport is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction  ( cellular process?? ) 
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of a protein in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the colocalization of a pathogen protein and a host protein within a host cell is normal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of a pathogen protein to the host nucleus is normal  ( i .e .
a single species population phenotype affecting the morphology of a colony growing in filamentous form .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spore germination is increased .
a phenotype that shows detectable differences from normal at the level of a tissue  ( eg leaf ,  inflorescence ,  ear or kidney )  .
a phenotype that does not show any detectable differences from normal at the level of a tissue  ( eg leaf ,  inflorescence ,  ear or kidney )  .
a single species population phenotype where the morphology of a colony growing in filamentous form is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a phenotype dependent on an interaction between a pathogen effector and a host process in order for the pathogen to activate or suppress the host immune system .
a single species individual organism phenotype affecting the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in a cell .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of coloring matter in a cell is abnormal .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of coloring matter in a cell is normal .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of coloring matter in a cell is increased .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of coloring matter in a cell is decreased .
a single species cell morphology phenotype where hyphal filaments are short in length .
a single species cell morphology phenotype where hyphal filaments are wavy .
a single species phenotype where the dispersal of asexual spores is abnormal  ( fao:0000023 )  .
a single species phenotype where the dispersal of asexual spores is normal  ( fao:0000023 )  .
a single species phenotype where the dispersal of sexual spores is normal  ( fao:0000017 )  .
a single species phenotype where the dispersal of sexual spores is abnormal  ( fao:0000017 )  .
 ( required for successful infection of the host species )  .
the host defences activated by the pathogen are altered compared to the wild type interaction
the ability to cause disease by activating or suppressing host defences is unaltered compared to the wildtype interaction .
the host defences activated by the pathogen are unaltered compared to the wild type interaction
the host defences suppressed by the pathogen are unaltered compared to the wild type interaction
the pathogen has the ability to cause infectious disease dependent upon the gene for gene relationship between the pathogen and host genotype and this is unaltered compared to the wildtype interaction .
 ( gene for gene relationships )  or defined from the phenotype described in the published study . \ nthe pathogen has the ability to cause infectious disease dependent upon the gene for gene relationship between the pathogen and host genotype .
the ability to cause disease by activating or suppressing host defences is altered compared to the wildtype interaction .
the host defences activated by the pathogen are unaltered compared to the wild type interaction
the host defences suppressed by the pathogen are unaltered compared to the wild type interaction
the pathogen has the ability to cause infectious disease dependent upon the gene for gene relationship between the pathogen and host genotype and this is altered compared to the wildtype interaction .
the pathogen effector entity has a decreased ability to activate host defence .
the pathogen effector entity has an increased ability to activate host defence .
the host defences suppressed by the pathogen are altered compare to the wild type interaction
the pathogen effector entity has a decreased ability to suppress host defence .
the pathogen effector entity has an increased ability to suppress host defence .
the host defences activated by the pathogen are altered compared to the wild type interaction .
the pathogen effector entity has gained the ability to activate host defence .
the pathogen effector entity has lost the ability to activate host defence .
the host defences suppressed by the pathogen are altered compared to the wild type interaction
the pathogen effector entity has gained the ability to suppress host defence .
the pathogen effector entity has lost the ability to suppress host defence .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cypronazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of cellular component organization at the cellular level is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cyproconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is abnormal .
a pathogen entry into host phenotype in which pathogen penetration into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism is present .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the pathogen colonization of the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype which affects the directional movement of the pathogen within the host organism  ( go:0044001 )  .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the occurrence of the directional movement of the pathogen within the host organism is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the occurrence of the directional movement of the pathogen within the host organism is normal .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the occurrence of the directional movement of the pathogen within the host organism is increased compared to normal .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the occurrence of the directional movement of the pathogen within the host organism is decreased compared to normal .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the ability of the pathogen to move directionally within the host organism is abolished  ( pathogen migration was present within the host and is now absent )  .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the ability of the pathogen to move directionally within the host organism is gained  ( pathogen migration was absent within the host and is now present )  .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the occurrence of the directional movement of the pathogen within the host organism happens sooner than normal .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the occurrence of the directional movement of the pathogen within the host organism happens later than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects a molecular function such as binding or catalytic activity .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects a catalytic activity .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is present .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is absent .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the pathogen is able to penetrate the host .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the formation of the pathogen penetration structure is normal  ( i .e indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the pathogen penetration into the host is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is normal  ( i .e indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a pathogen entry into host phenotype in which pathogen penetration into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism is absent .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the pathogen penetration into the host is abnormal  ( i .e different than wild - type )  .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the pathogen forms a non - functional specialized penetration structure .
a pathogen entry into host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism is decreased .
a pathogen entry into host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism is increased .
a pathogen entry into host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism begins later than normal .
a pathogen entry into host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism begins sooner than normal .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is absent .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is abnormal  ( i .e different than wild type )  .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is decreased .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host begins later than normal .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host begins sooner than normal .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is increased .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the formation of the pathogen penetration structure is abnormal  ( i .e different than wild - type )  .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the pathogen specialized host penetration structure is absent .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration stuctures near the host are decreased .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the size of pathogen penetration stuctures near the host are decreased .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration stuctures near the host are increased .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the size of pathogen penetration stuctures near the host are increased .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the formation of pathogen specialized penetration structure begins later than normal .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the formation of pathogen specialized penetration structure begins sooner than normal .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to carboxin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to carboxin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a cellular process phenotype in which cell wall organization is abnormal .
a molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified transporter activity is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to benomyl ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to diethofencarb ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to carbendazim ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to thiophanate methyl ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to oxolinic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to naftifine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to terbinafine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to azoxystrobin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to iprodione ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to diethocarb ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to carbendazim ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to thiophanate methyl ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to oxolinic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to naftifine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to terbinafine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to azoxystrobin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to iprodione ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to benomyl ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a cellular process phenotype in which any process of cellular component organization at the cellular level is abnormal .
a single species phenotype that is observed at the level of an individual organism .
a phenotype that does not show any detectable differences from normal at the level of an individual cell .
a phenotype that shows detectable differences from normal at the level of an individual cell .
a single species population phenotype in which a population grows normally  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype in which the nucleus is absent .
a phenotype that affects a process of cellular component organization ,  i .e .
a phenotype that affects a transporter activity .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spore germination is decreased .
a single species population phenotype in which a population shows increased resistance to a chemical stimulus during growth .
a phenotype in which a specific molecular function is abnormal .
a single species population phenotype in which a population grows abnormally .
a single organism phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  composition or morphology of a cell part is abnormal .
a phenotype in which a specific molecular function is normal  ( i .e .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of carbohydrate binding by a gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of carbohydrate binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is abnormal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of pathogen chitin fragment binding by a pathogen gene product is normal  ( i .e .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which carbohydrate binding by a gene product does not occur ,  when a gene or the bound dna sequence is mutated .
a single species phenotype in which a gene product that normally binds to a specific carbohydrate instead binds to a different carbohydrate when a gene is mutated .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of carbohydrate binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is decreased .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which occurrence of carbohydrate binding by a gene product  ( usually a protein )  in a mutant is increased .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the binding of carbohydrate to protein .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of pathogen chitinase to pathogen chitin fragments generated within a host interaction is present .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of pathogen chitin to host chitinase is present .
a single species molecular function phenotype that affects carbohydrate binding .
a single species pathogen molecular function phenotype in which pathogen chitin fragment binding by a pathogen gene product does not occur .
a single organism phenotype that affects a catalytic activity .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate and other catalytic properties of a specified catalytic activity are normal  ( i .e .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate or other catalytic property of a specified catalytic activity is abnormal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which a specified catalytic activity is absent .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified catalytic activity is decreased .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a specified catalytic activity is increased .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the substrate specificity of a catalytic activity differs from wild type .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the pathogen reproductive process within the host .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the pathogen reproductive process within the host is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the pathogen reproductive process within the host is abnormal .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host where the pathogen asexual reproduction process ,  in which new individuals are produced by either a single cell or a group of cells ,  in the absence of any sexual process is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  ( go:0019954 )  .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host where the pathogen sexual reproduction process ,  in which new individuals are produced by combining the genetic material of two gametes ,  which may come from two organisms or from a single organism is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )   ( go:0019953 )  .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spores is decreased .
a phenotype that affects the process of host tissue death causing a host lesion induced by the presence of a pathogen .
a single species phenotype that affects the cell death within a host .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spores is increased .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spores is abnormal
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host where the pathogen asexual reproduction process ,  in which new individuals are produced by either a single cell or a group of cells ,  in the absence of any sexual process is abnormal  ( go:0019954 )  .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of a peptidase activity is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype that affects the process of host tissue death causing a host lesion induced by the presence of a pathogen .
a single organism phenotype that affects the subcellular components in a cell .
a phenotype affecting the process of host tissue cell death caused by the pathogen  ( go:0097300 part of go:0009608  )  .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue programmed cell death modulated by the pathogen is absent  ( go:0034053 )  .
a phenotype that affects the immune system process of host necrotic cell death by pathogen induced hypersensitive response .
a single species phenotype where the immune system process of host tissue hypersensitive response is present in a pathogen effector - independant manner .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host where the pathogen asexual spores are absent  ( fao:0000023 )  .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host where the process of pathogen asexual sporulation ,  the formation of spores derived from the products of an asexual cell division ,  is abnormal  ( go:0030436 )  .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host where the process of pathogen asexual sporulation ,  the formation of spores derived from the products of an asexual cell division ,  is normal  ( go:0030436 )  .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spores is normal   ( i .e .
a single species phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain a different number of lipid droplets than normal .
a single organism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size of lipid droplets is decreased .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue programmed cell death modulated by the pathogen is present  ( go:0034053 )  .
a single organism phenotype that affects an intracellular non - membrane - bounded organelle comprising a matrix of coalesced lipids surrounded by a phospholipid monolayer .
a single organism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the size of lipid droplets is increased .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue cell death caused by the pathogen is present .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue cell death caused by the pathogen is absent .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which is abnormal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways ,  including anabolism and catabolism ,  by which living organisms transform chemical substances .
a single organism phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways involving those compounds which are formed as a part of the normal anabolic and catabolic processes .
a single organism phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in many of the chemical changes of compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
a single organism phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of secondary metabolites ,  the compounds that are not necessarily required for growth and maintenance of cells ,  and are often unique to a taxon .
a single organism phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of toxin ,  a poisonous compound  ( typically a protein )  that is produced by cells or organisms and that can cause disease when introduced into the body or tissues of an organism .
a single organism phenotype in which the toxin biosynthetic process is normal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype in which the toxin biosynthetic process is abnormal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype in which the biosynthesis of deoxynivalenol is normal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype in which the biosynthesis of deoxynivalenol is abnormal  ( i .e .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of deoxynivalenol measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of deoxynivalenol measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a single organism cell phenotype in which the amount of deoxynivalenol measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of deoxynivalenol measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
any of the set of observable characteristics of an organism resulting from the interaction of its genotype with the environment .
a single species phenotype that is observed at the level of a population .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that is observed at the level of an individual cell .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that is observed at the level of a population of cells .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that is observed at the level of a tissue  ( eg leaf ,  inflorescence ,  ear or kidney )  .
an organism population phenotype in which no organisms in the population are viable .
a single organism cell population phenotype that reflects the proportion of the population that survive and develop normally .
a single species phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain more lipid droplets than normal .
a single species phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain the same number of lipid droplets as normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to piperacillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to florfenicol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to boscalid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to sordarin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ketoconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to carbenicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to enrofloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to prochloraz ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to virginiamycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to triadimefon ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cercosporamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to oxytetracycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to gramicidin d ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to actinomycin d ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to triclosan ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to captan ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to isoniazid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ciprofloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to benznidazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ethambutol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to teicoplanin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cycloheximide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to chlorothalonil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefotetan ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to hygromycin b ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to triclabendazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ampicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to brassinin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to aztreonam ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to nisin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tetracycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to moxifloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to myriocin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to benzylpenicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to latrunculin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to clindamycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tylosin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to trovafloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to furazolidone ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to mecillinam ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefixime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tridemorph ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to mancozeb ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to netilmicin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to sulfanilamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to leptomycin b ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to bleomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to gentamycin c1 ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to pyrazinecarboxamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to micafungin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to strobilurin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to nikkomycin z ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to nifurtimox ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to rotenone ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to sulfadimethoxine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to flucytosine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefuroxime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to antimycin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to brefeldin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to anidulafungin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to vinclozolin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to trimethoprim ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to mupirocin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to voriconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to alexidine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to fludioxonil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to oxacillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefpodoxime proxetil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to eflornithine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to polymyxin b1 ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to pyrimethanil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to telithromycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to capreomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to amikacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ethionamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to doxycycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to meropenem ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to 4 - aminosalicylic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to rifampicin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to flutriafol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to rifabutin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to nalidixic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to linezolid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to fusidic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tunicamycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to epoxyconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to d - cycloserine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to kanamycin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to verapamil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to streptomycin sulfate ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to farnesol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to fenpropidin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to gatifloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to erythromycin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to bifonazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to azithromycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to posaconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to prothionamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to copper ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to resveratrol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to colistin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to oligomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefepime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to hydrogen peroxide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tigecycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tricyclazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to closantel ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to diniconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to quinupristin - dalfopristin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to sparfloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefaclor ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to plumbagin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to imipenem ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to streptomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ticarcillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to fenhexamid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to abamectin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to miltefosine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to methicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ertapenem ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to neomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to rapamycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to fluconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to valinomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to salicylhydroxamic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to nicotinamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to sulbactam ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to amoxicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to gentamicin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ceftazidime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to sulfisoxazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to bacitracin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to difenoconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to spiroxamine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ofloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cyclosporine a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefotaxime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefoxitin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to fenarimol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to levofloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to spectinomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to pentamidine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to thiabendazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to chlortetracycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to itraconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to nitrofurantoin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to ceftriaxone ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to paromomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tebuconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to nystatin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to propiconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to minocycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tobramycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to caspofungin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to amphotericin b ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to chloramphenicol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to novobiocin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to emamectin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to penicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to carbapenems ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to daptomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to clarithromycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to copper sulphate ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to fosfomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to trichostatin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to doripenem ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to miconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to vancomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to aureobasidin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to lincomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to norfloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to tiamulin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to hymexazol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cephalexin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to clofazimine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to dicloxacillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to camptothecin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased resistance to cefazolin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to mupirocin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefixime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to minocycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to polymyxin b1 ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to fusidic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to brefeldin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ethionamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to rotenone ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to pyrazinecarboxamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to alexidine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to chloramphenicol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to clofazimine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to emamectin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to miltefosine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sulfadimethoxine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to doripenem ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefaclor ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to plumbagin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefotaxime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to benznidazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cyclosporine a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to spectinomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to latrunculin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to oxacillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to difenoconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to triclosan ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tridemorph ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to virginiamycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to neomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to voriconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to brassinin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to daptomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to bleomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to aztreonam ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to fludioxonil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ceftriaxone ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to leptomycin b ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to amikacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to resveratrol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to fenhexamid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefpodoxime proxetil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to myriocin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to gentamicin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to valinomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tigecycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to moxifloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to kanamycin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to methicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to pentamidine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to gentamycin c1 ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to thiabendazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to gatifloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to mecillinam ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ampicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefotetan ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to nystatin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to vinclozolin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to flucytosine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to trichostatin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to oxytetracycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to eflornithine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to streptomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to epoxyconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to trimethoprim ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to nifurtimox ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to clarithromycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to nisin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sulfanilamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to oligomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to fosfomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to telithromycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to nitrofurantoin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to linezolid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to anidulafungin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to carbenicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tunicamycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to caspofungin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to fenarimol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ciprofloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to farnesol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to amphotericin b ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to vancomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ketoconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to strobilurin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to colistin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to trovafloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to triclabendazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to pyrimethanil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to florfenicol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to flutriafol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to teicoplanin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to norfloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to closantel ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to penicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to prothionamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to isoniazid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to salicylhydroxamic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to carbapenems ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to abamectin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to antimycin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cercosporamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tiamulin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tebuconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ticarcillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to nicotinamide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tricyclazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to paromomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ofloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to triadimefon ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to copper sulphate ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to imipenem ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to quinupristin - dalfopristin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to aureobasidin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to rifampicin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to rifabutin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to diniconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to actinomycin d ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to dicloxacillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefuroxime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to piperacillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to bacitracin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to propiconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to meropenem ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to chlorothalonil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to posaconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cephalexin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to 4 - aminosalicylic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to captan ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to capreomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to gramicidin d ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to doxycycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to bifonazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to micafungin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ertapenem ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cycloheximide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ceftazidime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to camptothecin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to netilmicin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to benzylpenicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to hymexazol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to streptomycin sulfate ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to chlortetracycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to d - cycloserine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to miconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to erythromycin a ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to copper ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to rapamycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tobramycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to verapamil ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to furazolidone ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefoxitin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to fenpropidin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to itraconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sulfisoxazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to lincomycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tetracycline ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to levofloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefazolin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to novobiocin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to amoxicillin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to ethambutol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to tylosin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to clindamycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to fluconazole ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to hygromycin b ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to boscalid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to cefepime ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to prochloraz ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to mancozeb ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to spiroxamine ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to enrofloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to nalidixic acid ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sordarin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to azithromycin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sparfloxacin ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to nikkomycin z ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sulbactam ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  which affects a pathogen induced host oxidative burst level  ( go:0002679 )  .
a cellular process phenotype in which the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell wall is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  often associated with an oxidative burst response during infection is present .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  often associated with an oxidative burst response during infection is absent or at a level too low to detect .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process is abnormal .
a phenotype that affects a cellular process .
a phenotype that affects cell wall organization or biogenesis .
a phenotype in which a specific cellular process is normal  ( i .e .
a single organism phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  or morphology of all or part of the nucleus is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype in which the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules ,  assembly ,  arrangement of constituent parts ,  or disassembly of a cell wall is decreased .
an single species phenotype in which a cell lyses ,  i .e .
an single species phenotype in which an asexual spore lyses ,  i .e .
an single species phenotype in which a vegetative cell lyses ,  i .e .
an single species phenotype in which an asexual spore does not lyse ,  i .e .
a single species phenotype where the slender tubular outgrowth first produced by most spores in germination is abnormal .
a single species phenotype where the slender tubular outgrowth first produced by most spores in germination is shorter than normal .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell differs from normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell differs from normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction where the mutualism phenotype is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype which affects the penetration of the pathogen into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism  ( go:0044409 )  .
a pathogen host phenotype which affects the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host  ( e .g .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is abolished  ( it was present as is now absent )  .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the pathogen specialized host penetration structure is present .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is present .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the ability of the pathogen to  form a specialized penetration structure is abolished .
a population phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual spore germination is normal  ( i .e .
a single species hyphal colony phenotype where the shape of the colony is abnormal .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of melanin in a cell is normal .
a single species phenotype that affects the morphology of a cell .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is decreased .
a single species population phenotype in which the population grows normally during the hyphal - form lifecycle stage .
a phenotype where the degree to which a pathogen  ( species or strain )  is able to cause infectious disease in another organism is abolished on a specific host genotype .
a phenotype where the degree to which a pathogen  ( species or strain )  is able to cause infectious disease in another organism is abolished when observed in an interaction with a pathogen mutant which was previously engineered to gain pathogenicity .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the pathogen specialized host penetration structure is present when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species pathogen penetration phenotype in in which the ability of the pathogen to  penetrate a given experimental substance / membrane is abolished .
a single species phenotype in which the pathogen's ability to contine to grow after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay is absent .
a single species phenotype in which the pathogen's ability to contine to grow after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay is present .
a single organism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which cells contain fewer autophagosomes than normal  ( go:0005776 )  .
a single organism phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the ability of the organism to form autophagosomes is abolished  ( they were present and are now absent )   ( go:0005776 )  .
a single organism phenotype in which a protein does not localize to ,  and is therefore absent from the autophagosome  ( go:0005776 )  .
a single organism phenotype that affects a double - membrane - bounded compartment that engulfs endogenous cellular material as well as invading microorganisms to target them to the lytic vacuole / lysosome for degradation as part of macroautophagy  ( go:0005776 )  .
a single species phenotype in which population growth is decreased relative to normal .
a single species phenotype in which population growth is increased relative to normal .
a single organism metabolic process phenotype in which the occurrence of lipid droplet degradation  ( lipolysis )  is decreased  ( go:0016042 and go:0005811 )  .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sodium dodecyl sulfate  ( sds )  ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sodium chloride ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to 1 , 4 - dithiothreitol  ( dtt )  ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a reproductive phenotype where the morphology of the sexual spore is normal  ( fao:0000017 )  .
a reproductive process phenotype in which meiosis is abnormal .
a reproductive process phenotype in which the meiotic nuclear divisions are normal  ( i .e .
a reproductive process phenotype in which a cell does not proceed normally through a meiotic cell cycle  ( go:0051321 )  .
a reproductive process phenotype in which a cell proceeds normally through a meiotic cell cycle  ( go:0051321 )  .
a phenotype in which the process of host tissue death causing a host lesion induced by the presence of a pathogen occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a phenotype in which the process of host tissue death causing a host lesion induced by the presence of a pathogen occurs to a higher extent than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell within a pathogen host interaction differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a pathogen or host cell differs from normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen protein usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the pathogen produced protein usually present during infection is absent .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host protein usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host defence - related protein usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a pathogen or host cell differs from normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a pathogen or host cell is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen rna usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a phenotype where the occurrence of individual host tissue lesions induced by the presence of a pathogen is abolished .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the pathogen morphology during host colonization .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the morphology of the pathogen during host colonization is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the morphology of the pathogen terminal hyphae during host colonization is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the morphology of the pathogen septin collar  ( go:0032173 )  during host colonization is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the host morphology during pathogen invasion .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the morphology of the host extra - invasive hyphal membrane  ( go:0085039 )  during pathogen invasion is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the morphology of the pathogen during host colonization is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the morphology of the host during pathogen invasion is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the morphology of the host during pathogen invasion is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the morphology of the pathogen or the host during pathogen colonization of the host .
a phenotype in which a specific transport process is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vesicle - mediated transport is abnormal .
a transport phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which vesicle - mediated transport is normal  ( i .e .
a single organism cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which transport is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the localization of a polysaccharide in a pathogen or host cell is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of a polysaccharide in a pathogen or host cell is abnormal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced callose deposition usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced callose deposition usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where any process in which callose is transported to ,  and / or maintained in ,  a specific location during the host defense response to a pathogen is abnormal .
a single species phenotype where the slender tubular outgrowth first produced by most spores in germination is longer than normal .
a cellular process phenotype in which asexual spore germination is abnormal  ( go:0009847 )  .
a cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of asexual spore germination is decreased .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to calcofluor white ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to congo red ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell differs from normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of cyclic amp measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell differs from normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is abolished  ( go:0072659 )  .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of a protein to the plasma membrane is abolished ,  and the protein is present in the cytoplasm instead .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of toxin measured in a cell differs from normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of toxin measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of pyocyanin measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of pyocyanin measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of toxin measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of toxin measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a pathogen or host cell is lower than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a pathogen or host cell is higher than normal .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a pathogen or host cell is too low to detect .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  which affects the level of pathogen produced toxin during host infection .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of protein measured in a pathogen or host cell is too low to detect .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen produced toxin usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen produced toxin usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the pathogen produced toxin usually present during infection is absent or at a level too low to detect .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of a specific substance measured in a pathogen or host cell is normal  ( i .e .
a single species population phenotype affecting the shape of a colony .
a single species phenotype where the shape of the colony is abnormal .
a single species colony morphology phenotype where the colony is smoother than normal .
a single species colony morphology phenotype where the colony is more rugose  ( wrinkled ;  corrugated )  than normal .
a single species colony morphology phenotype where the size of the population is abnormal .
a single species colony morphology phenotype where the size of the population is  increased .
a single species colony morphology phenotype where the size of the population is  decreased .
a single species phenotype where the shape of the colony is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a single species colony morphology phenotype where the colony is as rugose  ( wrinkled ;  corrugated )  as normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of pyocyanin measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell differs from normal .
a singe species cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is lower than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is higher than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a single species colony morphology phenotype where the size of the population is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that is observed at the level of an individual organism  ( eg a worm host )  .
a host organism viability phenotype where the host organism survives in the presence of the pathogen .
a host organism viability phenotype where the host organism death is accelerated by the pathogen .
a pathogen host interaction organism level phenotype which affects the viability of an individual host organism in the presence of a pathogen .
a pathogen host interaction organism viability phenotype where a host organism is viable in the presence of a pathogen .
a pathogen host interaction organism viability phenotype where a host organism is inviable in the presence of a pathogen .
a single species population growth phenotype in which cells show increased sensitivity to a stress .
a population growth phenotype which cells show increased sensitivity to iron ion starvation .
a single species population growth phenotype in which a cell requires a particular organic compound ,  which is not required by a wild - type cell for its growth .
auxotrophy in which a cell is unable to synthesize lysine ,  and therefore requires lysine in the medium for vegetative cell growth .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of melanin in a cell is decreased .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of melanin in a cell is absent .
a pathogen host interaction organism level phenotype affecting the deposition or aggregation of coloring matter in a cell .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the accumulation of pathogen pigmentation  ( coloring matter )  usually present during infection differs from normal .
a pathogen host interaction ,  in which the accumulation of melanin within a pathogen asexual spore ,  usually present during infection ,  is absent .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced callose deposition usually present during infection is normal  ( i .e .
a single species cell population phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is faster than normal .
a single species cell population phenotype in which vegetative cell population growth is slower than normal .
a single species cellular process phenotype in which any process of cellular component assembly at the cellular level is abnormal .
a single species cellular process phenotype in which hyphae formation is abnormal .
a single species cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of hyphae formation is decreased .
a single species cellular process phenotype in which the rate ,  or speed ,  of germ tube formation is decreased .
a single organism localization phenotype in which a protein is not exported via the secretory pathway .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which a chitinase activity is absent .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of chitin measured in the spore is higher than normal
a single species phenotype where the localization of a structure or substance in a cell is abnormal .
a single organism phenotype in which the localization of chitin in a cell is abnormal .
a single species phenotype in which cells in a population show decreased sensitivity to a stress .
a single species phenotype in which cells in a population show decreased sensitivity to cell wall stress .
a single organism phenotype in which cells in a population show increased sensitivity to a stress .
a cell phenotype in which the amount of rna measured in a pathogen or host cell is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen rna usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host where the pathogen asexual sporulation structures are absent .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual sporulation structures within a host lesion is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host rna usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of gliotoxin measured in a cell is too low to detect .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one pathogen protein to one host protein is present .
a molecular function phenotype in which the binding of one pathogen protein to one host protein is absent .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the ph in a pathogen or host cell or cellular component .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the host ph value during infection differs from normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the pathogen induces a ph decrease within the host cell or cellular component .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the pathogen induces a ph increase within the host cell or cellular component .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the ph in a pathogen or host cell or cellular component is normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the pathogen induces a ph decrease within the host phagolysome .
a pathogen reproductive phenotype within host in which the frequency of occurrence of asexual sporulation structures within a host lesion is fewer than normal .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the observed rate of phosphopantetheinyl transferase activity is decreased .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects a host immune system signaling pathway during pathogen infection .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the host immune signaling pathway is induced by a pathogen .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which protein modification is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  is abnormal .
a cellular process phenotype observed in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle in which the phosphorylation of one or more specific proteins ,  or of specific protein sites ,  occurs to a lower extent than normal .
a single species phenotype where the sexual reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals ,  from their formation to the mature structures is abnormal  ( go:0048608 )  .
a single species reproductive phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of sexual sporulation structures is fewer than normal .
an organism population phenotype in which some organisms in the population are viable .
a population growth phenotype in which organism growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing erucic acid as the carbon source .
a population growth phenotype in which organism growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing oleic acid as the carbon source .
a population growth phenotype in which organism growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing palmitic acid as the carbon source .
a population growth phenotype in which organism growth is decreased relative to normal in a medium containing myristic acid as the carbon source .
a cell signaling pathway phenotype where the molecular pattern - induced host innate immune response signaling pathway is suppressed by a pathogen .
a cell signaling pathway phenotype where the molecular pattern - induced host innate immune response signaling pathway that was suppressed by a pathogen is no longer suppressed  ( suppression was present and is now absent )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the presence of a pathogen  ( or symbiont )  has resulted in a decreased size of the host organism .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the presence of a pathogen  ( or symbiont )  has resulted in an increased number of side shoots produced by the host organism .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the size of the pathogen vacuoles are larger than normal during host colonization .
a single species individual organism phenotype where the accumulation of melanin in a cell is increased .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to potassium chloride ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a phenotype in which a population of a single - species shows increased sensitivity to sorbitol ,  manifested as an affect on the extent of population growth .
a single species phenotype where the asexual reproductive developmental process whose specific outcome is the progression of structures that will be used in the process of creating new individuals ,  from their formation to the mature structures is abolished  ( it was present and is now absent )   ( go:0048608 )  .
a single species cellular process phenotype in which the number of septa produced during hyphae formation is increased .
a single species phenotype where the frequency of occurrence of asexual reproductive structures is decreased .
a single species phenotype where the frequency of occurrence of septum within an asexual spore is decreased .
a cell signaling pathway phenotype where the host pattern recognition receptor signaling pathway is directly induced by a pathogen .
a cell signaling pathway phenotype where the host effector - triggered immunity signaling pathway is induced by a pathogen to activate a plant hypersensitive response and induce necrosis .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of a pathogen protein to the host chloroplast is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype in which the localization of a pathogen protein to the host chloroplast is abolished  ( i .e .the protein was localized to the host chloroplast and now is not )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host defence - related rna usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a cell signaling pathway phenotype where the host effector - triggered immunity innate immune response signaling pathway is suppressed by a pathogen .
a single species population growth phenotype where the size of the filamentous colony is decreased .
a single organism phenotype that affects the chemical reactions and pathways by which individual cells transform chemical substances .
a single species metabolic cellular process phenotype in which the formation of reactive oxygen species  ( any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen )  is unaltered .
a single species metabolic cellular process phenotype in which the formation of reactive oxygen species  ( any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen )  is decreased .
a single species localization phenotype in which ros are produced over a different portion of the cell than normal .
a host morphology phenotype where the size of the host is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  during pathogen invasion .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the morphology of the host plasma membrane has increased blebbing during pathogen invasion .
a single species cell phenotype in which fungal hyphae form an increased number of branches .
a single species pathogen molecular function phenotype in which pathogen chitin fragment binding by a pathogen gene product is decreased .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen produced reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen produced reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction metabolic cellular process phenotype in which the formation of reactive oxygen species  ( any molecules or ions formed by the incomplete one - electron reduction of oxygen )  by the pathogen is unaltered within the host .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype which affects the directional tissue to tissue movement of the pathogen within the host organism  ( go:0044001 )  .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the ability of the pathogen to move directionally from tissue to tissue within the host organism is abolished  ( pathogen migration was present within the host and is now absent )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the host phenolic compounds usually present during infection are absent or at a level too low to detect .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects the host reproductive process within the host when a pathogen is present .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype which affects either the pathogen or host reproductive process .
a host reproductive phenotype with pathogen where the process of host reproductive development is abnormal  ( go:0048608 )  .
a host reproductive phenotype with pathogen where the process of host seed development is abnormal  ( go:0048316 )  .
a host reproductive phenotype with pathogen where the process of host seed development is absent  ( go:0048316 )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects a host immune system process during pathogen infection  ( go:0002376 )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the host immune response protease activity is inhibited by the pathogen .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which a pathogen effects a change in the structure or processes of its host organism  ( go:0044003 )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host rna usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the localization of a pathogen protein in a host cell is normal .
a phenotype dependent on an interaction between a pathogen effector and a host process in order for the pathogen to suppress the host immune system .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the infective ability of a pathogen during attempted colonization of a host .
a single species phenotype where the immune system process of host tissue hypersensitive response is absent in a pathogen effector - independant manner .
a single species cell phenotype in which the amount of deoxynivalenol measured in a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a phenotype that is relevant to host resistance to a given pathogen .
a phenotype where the ability of a host to be resistant to a pathogen ,  via the recognition of a pathogen effector by a specific host resistance gene is abolished  ( resistance was present and is now absent )  .
a phenotype where the ability of a host ,  to be resistant to a pathogen ,  via the recognition of a pathogen effector by a specific host resistance gene is acquired  ( resistance was absent and is now present )  .
a phenotype where ability of a host to be resistant to a pathogen ,  via the recognition of a pathogen effector by a specific host resistance gene ,  is present .
a phenotype where ability of a host to be resistant to a pathogen ,  via the recognition of a pathogen effector by a specific host resistance gene ,  is absent .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the outcome of a gene - for - gene relationship in plant pathogen interactions .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the gene - for - gene relationship between the pathogen and plant host results in disease susceptibility .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the gene - for - gene relationship between the pathogen and plant host results in disease resistance .
a pathogen host interaction ,  in which the accumulation of melanin within a pathogen asexual spore ,  usually present during infection ,  is present .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  ,  often associated with an oxidative burst response  during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  ,  often associated with an oxidative burst response  during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction molecular function phenotype in which host - mediated inhibition of a pathogen chorismate mutase is abolished  ( inhibition was present and is now absent )  .
a pathogen host interaction molecular function phenotype in which host - mediated inhibition of a pathogen chorismate mutase is present .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  which affects the level of a host produced substance during infection .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  which affects the level of a pathogen produced substance during host infection .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the disease outcome of a pathogen host interaction .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where disease is absent .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where disease is present .
a phenotype that is relevant to pathogen effectors .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen effector to produce an infectious disease is abolished .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen effector to produce an infectious disease is acquired .
a phenotype where the immune system process of host tissue hypersensitive response modulated by the pathogen occurs to a lower extent than normal  ( go:0009626 )  .
an iri or similar locator for a request or discussion of an ontology term .
a dioxolane that is 1 , 3 - dioxolane which is substituted at positions 2 ,  2 ,  and 4 by imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl ,  2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl ,  and  [ para -  ( 4 - acetylpiperazin - 1 - yl ) phenoxy ] methyl groups ,  respectively .
an organosulfonic acid comprising stilbene having 4 - anilino - 6 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ]  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl}amino groups at the 4 and 4' - positions and sulfo groups at the 2 -  and 2' - positions .
an arenesulfonate arising from deprotonation of the sulfo groups of 4 , 4' - bis ( {4 - anilino - 6 -  [ bis ( 2 - hydroxyethyl ) amino ]  - 1 , 3 , 5 - triazin - 2 - yl}amino ) stilbene - 2 , 2' - disulfonic acid .
an aromatic amide resulting from the formal condensation of the carboxy group of 3 , 5 - diiodosalicylic acid with the amino group of aniline substituted at positions 2 ,  4 ,  and 5 by methyl ,   ( 4 - chlorophenyl )  ( cyano ) methyl ,  and methyl groups respectively .
a tertiary amino compound that is 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenylethylamine in which the hydrogens attached to the nitrogen are replaced by a methyl group and a 4 - cyano - 4 -  ( 3 , 4 - dimethoxyphenyl )  - 5 - methylhexyl group .
an  epoxide that is oxirane substituted by a 2 - chlorophenyl ,  4 - fluorophenyl and a 1h - 1 , 2 , 4 - triazol - 1 - ylmethyl groups .
either of the two diastereoisomers of 1 - acetyl - 4 -  ( 4 - { [ 2 -  ( 2 , 4 - dichlorophenyl )  - 2 -  ( 1h - imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl )  - 1 , 3 - dioxolan - 4 - yl ] methoxy}phenyl ) piperazine in which the imidazol - 1 - ylmethyl group and the aryloxymethyl group are in a cis relationship to each other  -  i .e .
the living contents of a cell ;  the matter contained within  ( but not including )  the plasma membrane ,  usually taken to exclude large vacuoles and masses of secretory or ingested material .
the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
the modification of a protein amino acid by phosphopantetheinylation .
cell death resulting from activation of endogenous cellular processes after interaction with a symbiont  ( defined as the smaller of two ,  or more ,  organisms engaged in symbiosis ,  a close interaction encompassing mutualism through parasitism )  .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that stops ,  prevents ,  or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of charged atoms or small charged molecules into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of symbiosis ,  an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
the process in which a symbiont organism modulates the anion transport ,  the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge ,  into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  of its host organism .
any process that modulates the frequency ,  rate or extent of the directed movement of anions ,  atoms or small molecules with a net negative charge into ,  out of or within a cell ,  or between cells ,  by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore .
obsolete .the increase in size or mass of an organism occurring when the organism is in a symbiotic interaction .
a process carried out by gene products in an organism that enable the organism to engage in a symbiotic relationship ,  a more or less intimate association ,  with another organism .
any process evolved to enable an interaction with an organism of a different species .
obsolete .any constituent part of a cell ,  the basic structural and functional unit of all organisms .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
an interaction between two organisms living together in more or less intimate association .
a process carried out by symbiont gene products that enables a symbiotic interaction with a host organism ,  that is beneficial to the host organism .
any process that stops ,  prevents or reduces the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
any process that activates or increases the frequency ,  rate or extent of anion transport .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen effector to produce an infectious disease is absent .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen effector to produce an infectious disease is present .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is abnormal .
a reproductive phenotype in which the occurrence of asexual spore formation happens sooner than normal .
a reproductive phenotype in which the occurrence of sexual spore formation happens sooner than normal .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which formation of pathogen specialized penetration structure begins sooner than normal when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen growth after penetration of a given experimental substance / membrane in an in vitro assay begins sooner than normal .
a single species pathogen growth phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration begins sooner than normal when assessed for penetration ability on a given experimental substance / membrane .
a single species population growth phenotype that affects the rate or extent of the increase in the number of unicellular organisms in the population  ( i .e organismal growth and reproduction )  .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is normal .
a single species population phenotype in which affects the population growth during the yeast - form lifecycle stage .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue cell death causing a host lesion is induced by the host activating its own hypersensitive response in defense ,  is absent .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue cell death causing a host lesion is induced by the host activating its own hypersensitive response in defense is delayed .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue cell death causing a host lesion is induced by the host activating its own hypersensitive response in defense ,  is present .
an individual organism growth phenotype in which the aerial height of hyphae is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a single species hyphal colony shape phenotype where the aerial height of the filamentous colony is increased .
an individual organism growth phenotype in which the aerial height of hyphae is decreased .
a single species cell morphology phenotype where hyphal filaments are short in length .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the occurrence of the directional movement of the pathogen within the host organism happens sooner than normal .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is present .
a pathogen colonization of host phenotype where the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen on the host surface is absent .
a pathogen entry into host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of pathogen penetration into the body ,  tissues ,  or cells of the host organism begins sooner than normal .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is absent .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is abnormal  ( i .e different than wild type )  .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the frequency of occurrence of vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host begins sooner than normal .
a pathogen growth with host phenotype in which the formation of pathogen specialized penetration structure begins sooner than normal .
a single species population growth phenotype where the rate or extent of the increase in the number of unicellular organisms in the population  ( i .e organismal growth and reproduction )  is normal  ( i .e .
a single species population growth phenotype where the rate or extent of the increase in the number of unicellular organisms in the population  ( i .e organismal growth and reproduction )  is lesser or greater than normal .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue cell death causing a host lesion is induced by the host activating its own programmed cell death pathways in defense ,  is present .
a phenotype that affects the immune system process of host necrotic cell death by pathogen induced hypersensitive response .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  which affects a pathogen induced host oxidative burst level  ( go:0002679 )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  often associated with an oxidative burst response during infection is present .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  often associated with an oxidative burst response during infection is absent or at a level too low to detect .
a pathogen host phenotype in which the vegetative growth or proliferation of the pathogen inside the host is present .
a single species phenotype that affects the morphology of a cell .
a single species population growth phenotype where the rate or extent of the increase in the number of unicellular organisms in the population  ( i .e organismal growth and reproduction )  is lesser than normal .
a single species population growth phenotype where the rate or extent of the increase in the number of unicellular organisms in the population  ( i .e organismal growth and reproduction )  is greater than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host defence - related protein usually present during infection is higher than normal .
a single species population phenotype affecting the shape of a colony of unicellular individuals .
a single species phenotype where the shape of a colony of unicellular individuals is abnormal .
a single species colony shape phenotype where the colony is smoother than normal .
a single species phenotype where the shape of a colony of unicellular individuals is more rugose  ( wrinkled ;  corrugated )  than normal .
a single species colony morphology phenotype where the size of the population is  increased .
a single species phenotype where the shape of a colony of unicellular individuals is normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a single species phenotype where the shape of a colony of unicellular individuals is as rugose  ( wrinkled ;  corrugated )  as normal  ( indistinguishable from wild type )  .
a growth phenotype which describes an individual or a population of organisms which requires a particular organic compound ,  which is not required by a wild - type for its growth .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced callose deposition usually present during infection is normal  ( i .e .
a single species population growth phenotype where the rate of the increase in the number of unicellular organisms in the population  ( i .e organismal growth and reproduction )  is faster than normal .
a single species population growth phenotype where the rate of the increase in the number of unicellular organisms in the population  ( i .e organismal growth and reproduction )  is slower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the ph in a pathogen or host cell or cellular component .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the host ph value during infection differs from normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the pathogen induces a ph decrease within the host cell or cellular component .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the pathogen induces a ph increase within the host cell or cellular component .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the host induces a ph decrease within the host phagolysome in response to pathogen colonization .
a growth phenotype which describes the decrease in growth of individuals or populations relative to normal in a medium containing erucic acid as the carbon source .
a growth phenotype which describes the decrease in growth of individuals or populations relative to normal in a medium containing oleic acid as the carbon source .
a growth phenotype which describes the decrease in growth of individuals or populations relative to normal in a medium containing palmitic acid as the carbon source .
a growth phenotype which describes the decrease in growth of individuals or populations relative to normal in a medium containing myristic acid as the carbon source .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host defence - related rna usually present during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the host phenolic compounds usually present during infection are absent or at a level too low to detect .
a phenotype that is relevant to host resistance to a given pathogen .
a phenotype where the ability of a host to be resistant to a pathogen ,  via the recognition of a pathogen effector by a specific host resistance gene is abolished  ( resistance was present and is now absent )  .
a phenotype where the ability of a host ,  to be resistant to a pathogen ,  via the recognition of a pathogen effector by a specific host resistance gene is acquired  ( resistance was absent and is now present )  .
a phenotype where ability of a host to be resistant to a pathogen ,  via the recognition of a pathogen effector by a specific host resistance gene ,  is present .
a phenotype where ability of a host to be resistant to a pathogen ,  via the recognition of a pathogen effector by a specific host resistance gene ,  is absent .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype that affects the outcome of a gene - for - gene relationship in plant pathogen interactions .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the gene - for - gene relationship between the pathogen and plant host results in disease susceptibility .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the gene - for - gene relationship between the pathogen and plant host results in disease resistance .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  ,  often associated with an oxidative burst response  during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  ,  often associated with an oxidative burst response  during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  which affects the level of a host produced substance during infection .
a phenotype that is relevant to pathogen effectors .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen effector to produce an infectious disease is abolished .
a phenotype where the ability of a pathogen effector to produce an infectious disease is acquired .
a phenotype where the process of host tissue cell death causing a host lesion is induced by the host activating its own hypersensitive response in defense to a lesser extent than normal .
a single species phenotype where the morphology of a cell is abnormal .
a single species phenotype where the morphology of a cell is normal  ( i .e .
a single species cell morphology phenotype where the length of hyphal filaments are normal  ( i .e .
a single species population phenotype affecting the morphology of a colony of unicellular individuals .
an individual organism growth phenotype in which the size or extent of directional growth of hyphae is normal .
an individual organism growth phenotype in which the growth of hyphae is decreased .
an individual organism growth phenotype in which the growth of hyphae is abolished  ( it was present and is now absent )  .
a single species growth phenotype which affects or involves normal or abnormal size ,  extent or rate of directional growth of the hyphae of an individual organism .
an individual organism growth phenotype in which the size or extent of directional growth of hyphae is abnormal .
a growth phenotype which describes the change or absence of change of individuals or populations  ( in terms of movement ,  secretion ,  enzyme production ,  gene expression ,  etc . ) 
a growth phenotype which describes the sensitivity ,  resistance or absence of change of individuals or populations after exposure to a specific stress .
a growth phenotype which describes the sensitivity ,  resistance or absence of change of individuals or populations after exposure to a specific chemical .
a growth phenotype which describes the absence of change of individuals or populations after exposure to voriconazole  ( i .e .
a phenotype that affects any physical object quality ,  such as morphology ,  number ,  location ,  etc . ,  of an individual ,  tissue ,  cell ,  or cellular component .
a physical anatomical structure phenotype in which the amount ,  distribution ,  morphology ,  or other physical characteristic of a cell part ,  cell ,  or tissue ,  or individual is abnormal in the vegetative growth phase of the life cycle .
a single species cell phenotype that consists of the cell's disposition to survive and develop normally .
a single species phenotype where the morphology of an organism is normal  ( i .e .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the occurrence of recognition ,  binding and sequestering of pamp ligands in order to prevent them from binding and activating the host pamp receptor is decreased .
a single species molecular function phenotype in which the occurrence of recognition ,  binding and sequestering of pamp ligands in order to prevent them from binding and activating the host pamp receptor is abolished  ( was present and is now absent )  .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced reducing sugars usually present in the apoplast during infection is lower than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of host produced reducing sugars usually present in the apoplast during infection is higher than normal .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen produced reactive oxygen species  ( ros )  usually present during infection is present as normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction colonization phenotype in which the ability of the pathogen to move directionally from tissue to tissue within the host organism is present .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the host phenolic compounds usually present during infection are normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the host rna usually present during infection is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype ,  in which the level of pathogen rna usually present during host infection is normal  ( i .e .
a pathogen host interaction phenotype where the host induced ph decrease within the host phagolysome in response to pathogen colonization is inhibited .
an individual organism growth phenotype in which the growth of hyphae is increased .
